




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Forest Act

Credit to Stumpage Regulation
B.C. Reg. 385/81





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 525/2004, effective December 3,
2004.





B.C. Reg. 385/81

O.C. 1991/81


Filed September 21, 1981






Forest Act


Credit to Stumpage Regulation





Interpretation



1

(1)  In this regulation:


"basic silviculture"
means surveying, planting, direct seeding, brushing and weeding
and site preparation for regeneration;


"expense"
means an expense that is approved or ascertained under section 110
of the
Forest Act
;


"logging access road"
means a road that


(a) is part of a route approved by the regional manager,


(b) is built on Crown land, for the extraction of Crown
timber, by the holder of an agreement entered into under Part 3 of
the
Forest Act
, and


(c) will be retained on a continuing basis for the
utilization and management of Crown forests, for the development
of other Crown resources and for availing public access.


(2)  In sections 2 and 3,
"unit"
means a tree farm licence area or timber supply area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 295/82.]




Prescribed area



2

Where a person incurs an expense by


(a) constructing a logging access road that develops a unit,


(b) applying reforestation or other silvicultural treatment
in a unit, or


(c) carrying out another responsibility in a unit,


the prescribed area referred to in section 110 (2) of the Act is
that unit.





Spent



2.1

Spent.





Exception, where cutting redirected



3

(1)  Notwithstanding section 2, where, in order to salvage
windthrown, dead, damaged or diseased timber, the regional manager
requests a person who has incurred an expense to


(a) curtail or suspend cutting in the unit in respect of
which he incurred the expense, and

(b) cut in another unit,

then the prescribed area referred to in section 110 (2) of the Act
includes that other unit, but only during the period specified in
the request of the regional manager and while the person continues
to comply with the request.

(2)  Where subsection (1) applies,

(a) the part of the expense proportionate to the extent that
the person who incurred it complies with the request of the
regional manager by continuing to cut in the unit in respect of
which the expense was incurred shall be applied as a credit
against stumpage payable by the person in respect of timber
harvested in that unit, and


(b) the other part of the expense shall be applied as a
credit against stumpage payable by the person in respect of timber
harvested in the other unit specified in the request of the
regional manager.


(3)  This section does not apply to an area to which section
5 or 6 applies.





Exception, where a p.s.y.u. is not wholly within one t.s.a.



4

Notwithstanding section 2, but subject to section 2.1, where a
person incurs an expense under an agreement authorizing harvesting
in a public sustained yield unit that forms part of 2 or more
timber supply areas, the prescribed area referred to in section
110 (2) of the Act is the timber supply area or areas in which
timber is harvested under the agreement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 36/82; am. B.C. Reg. 295/82.]




Exception, Vancouver forest region and the coastal portion of the
Prince Rupert forest region



5

Notwithstanding section 2 but subject to section 2.1, where an
expense is incurred in the Vancouver forest region or the portion
of the Prince Rupert forest region west of the Cascade Mountains,
the prescribed area referred to in section 110 (2) of the Act is
the portion of the Province west of the Cascade Mountains.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/85.]




Repealed



6

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/85.]





Exception, forest nursery or seed orchard



7

Where a person incurs an expense referred to in section 110 (1) of
the Act, the prescribed area referred to in section 110 (1) of the
Act is the Province.



[Provisions of the
Forest Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 110 and 151]





