




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Local Government Act



ARDA Agreement Regulation


B.C. Reg. 89/68







Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 89/68


O.C. 898/68









Local Government Act




ARDA Agreement Regulation






Definition




1



"ARDA Agreement"

means any Federal Provincial Agreement entered into pursuant to the

Agricultural and Rural Development Act

.






Imposition of per acre charge




2


A per acre charge is hereby imposed from the date of the approval of the project on each and every parcel of land within the area benefiting from the project under provisions of an ARDA Agreement.






Cancellation of notice of charge




3


Where the charge has been paid in full or ceased to exist by effluxion of time as to specified land, the Registrar of Titles, upon receipt of a certificate to that effect under the hand of the officials referred to in section 721 (3) (a) of the Act, shall cancel the notice of the charge filed against the title to the land.






Written approval of inspector




4


Where the written approval referred to in section 721 (3) (b) of the Act has been given in respect to a specific transaction, the Registrar of Titles may give effect hereto, subject to the charge created by this Act.






Diminution of charge




5


The charges as aforesaid shall be diminished by deducting 5% from the original charge each year on the anniversary date of the approval of the project, unless otherwise advised.






Federal-Provincial share of charge




6


That portion of any charge paid to the municipality or improvement district upon a transfer of land which represents the Federal-Provincial share shall be paid by the municipality or improvement district to the Minister of Finance and Corporate Relations, Province of British Columbia, within 30 days of the sum having been paid to the municipality or improvement district.




Note:

see O.C. 3853/74 and O.C. 1973/77 re. amendment to schedule.


[Provisions of the

Local Government Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 721]





