




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Pharmacists, Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act



Access to Pharmanet Patient Record Information Regulation


B.C. Reg. 384/99







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 537/2004, effective February 1, 2005.





B.C. Reg. 384/99


O.C. 1579/99



Deposited November 19, 1999







Pharmacists, Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act




Access to Pharmanet Patient Record Information Regulation






Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"access"

means access to patient record information on the PharmaNet system for the purpose of providing therapeutic treatment or care to patients;



"hospital"

means a hospital as defined in paragraph (a) of the definition of "hospital" in section 1 of the

Hospital Act

that is designated under paragraph (a) of the definition of "hospital" in section 1 of the

Hospital Insurance Act

;



"medical practice"

means any premises where a medical practitioner ordinarily practices medicine;



"pilot project"

means a study and evaluation, administered by the Ministry of Health, of access from medical practices.






Designated persons




2


Subject to section 3, the following persons are permitted to have access:


(a) a medical practitioner;


(b) a licensed practical nurse who is a registrant of the College of Licensed Practical Nurses of British Columbia and in good standing with the College;


(c) a registered nurse who is a member of the Registered Nurses' Association of British Columbia and in good standing with the Association;


(d) a registered psychiatric nurse who is a registrant of the College of Registered Psychiatric Nurses of British Columbia and in good standing with the College;


(e) a person authorized by a medical practitioner to have access


(i)  under the direct supervision of the medical practitioner, and


(ii)  in the course of carrying out the person's employment or other duties in a hospital emergency department or a medical practice.






Requirements, restrictions and conditions for access




3


A person designated in section 2 is only permitted to have access


(a) if the purpose and manner of access is consistent with the standards set out in the HealthNet/BC Application Services Professional and Software Compliance Standards published by the Ministry of Health, and


(b) from


(i)  a hospital emergency department;


(ii)  a medical practice that is included in the pilot project.




Note:

this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 401/97.


[Provisions of the

Pharmacists, Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 363, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 38.1]





