




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Act


Part X: Buildings, Shops and Terminals Employing Workmen Regulations

B.C. Reg. 461/59





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 461/59


O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003

1








Railway Act



Part X: Buildings, Shops and Terminals Employing Workmen
Regulations





Interpretation




Definitions





In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the
Railway Act
of British Columbia;


"certificate"
means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector;


"chief inspector"
or
"inspector"
means an inspecting engineer, inspector or assistant inspector
appointed under the provisions of the Act or of the
Public Service Act
;


"owner"
means any person, firm or corporation in possession of a railway,
and includes the manager or other chief officer of such firm or
corporation;


"shop"
or
"shops"
means an establishment in connection with a railway where motive
power, rolling stock or other equipment is built or maintained and
shall include all buildings, structures, tracks and yards in
conjunction thereto, and all machinery and apparatus installed in
connection therewith or used with reference thereto;


"stationary steam plant"
means and includes the boilers, pumps, compressors, engines or
other equipment and all pipes and connections and every part
thereof, and all apparatus and things attached to and connected
therewith or used with reference thereto; and which steam plant is
used in conjunction with a terminal or shops of a railway.

[am. B.C. Reg. 40/91, s. 7.]



Extent and Application of Regulations




Application



1

These regulations shall apply to all railways operating under the
legislative authority of the Province of British Columbia.





Company responsible for condition of its shops



2

Every railway company will be held responsible for the general
condition of all shops under its control.





Locomotive foreman responsible for stationary boilers



3

The locomotive foreman in charge at each point where stationary
boilers are operated will be held responsible for the stationary
boilers and appurtenances under his jurisdiction. He must know
that all defects disclosed by any inspection are properly repaired
before the boiler is returned to service. Such railway company
shall appoint a practical boiler maker to carry out repairs,
inspections and test of stationary boilers, and all reports of
such filed with the ministry shall bear his signature in
conjunction with that of the mechanical officer in charge of the
shop where such repairs, tests and examinations are made. The safe
working pressure for each boiler shall be fixed by the chief
inspector of the ministry after full consideration has been given
to the design, workmanship, age and condition.





Portions of Boiler Code applicable



4

That portion of the regulations known as Part I and Part III of
the "British Columbia Railway Department Boiler Code", adopted by
order in council No. 126 under the
Railway Act
on January 21, 1947, shall govern the design, registration and
construction of all pressure parts used. In particular, Part I,
relating to the design, registration and construction of power
boilers, shall govern the design, registration and construction of
stationary boilers and their appurtenances; and Part III, relating
to the design, registration and construction of unfired pressure
vessels.




General Inspection Regulations




Inspection of stationary steam plant



5

Every stationary steam plant shall be inspected before being put
into service and at least every 12 months thereafter by an
inspector of the ministry. Inspectors shall have the right, at all
reasonable hours, to examine boilers and may refuse to grant a
certificate for any boiler found defective according to the
provisions of these regulations. They may order out of service any
boiler which for any cause they consider unfit and dangerous to
operate.





Reporting of defects



6

It is the duty of every locomotive foreman to inform the inspector
of any defects known or believed to exist in the boilers under his
charge.





If boilers too hot for safety inspection



7

Inspectors may decline to examine boilers considered too hot for
safety and convenience, and shall refuse to grant certificates for
same until a satisfactory examination can be made.





Methods of boiler inspection



8

In order to satisfy himself as to the thickness of a plate or the
internal condition of a boiler, the inspector may, should he deem
it necessary, order holes to be cut therein and may demand such
information by drawings and specifications of the several parts as
will enable him to determine their strength. In the event of such
information being unobtainable, he shall use a safety factor of
5.5 with such additions thereto as his judgment may dictate.





First and subsequent inspection requirements



9

At the first inspection of a stationary boiler the jacket and
covering shall be removed by the owner or his agent, so that a
thorough examination of the plates and rivets can be made. At
subsequent inspections such jackets and covering or any part of
same shall be removed upon the request of the inspector.





Safety valves, fittings, etc.



10

Inspectors shall see that the safety valves, water gauges, test
cocks, blowoff pipes, main steam pipes and all fittings and
connections of boilers are in good order and sufficient in number
and that they comply with the requirements of these regulations.





Calculation of strength of boiler



11

Inspectors shall calculate the strength of stationary boilers by
formulae provided in Part I of the "British Columbia Railway
Department Boiler Code", and determine the safe working pressure
thereof according to the calculated strength of the various parts
and the workmanship and material of which they are composed, and
shall record such working pressure upon the certificate of
inspection. In cases where the necessary formula for any type of
boiler is not provided, application shall be made to the chief
inspector, who shall furnish same.





Excess of pressure



12

In cases where inspectors find that a boiler is or has been
carrying an excess of pressure beyond that which has been recorded
on the certificate of inspection, they shall report same to the
chief inspector for prosecution and require the owner to install
thereon a lockup valve of approved pattern to prevent the carrying
of any excessive pressure.




Certificates




Issuance and display of certificate



13

A certificate shall be issued by the inspector for every
stationary boiler found, after inspection and testing, to be in
satisfactory working condition. Such certificate, showing date of
last inspection and working pressure allowed, shall be placed
under glass in the boiler room adjacent to the boiler.





Period of certificate



14

Certificate shall be issued covering a period of 12 months, but
should the inspector consider it advisable, he may issue a
certificate for a lesser period.





Suspension of certificate



15

Inspectors finding defects in any boiler having an unexpired
certificate may suspend such certificate until repairs are made or
necessary fittings supplied.





Yearly fee for certificate



16

Certificates shall be delivered to the owner of the boiler upon
payment of yearly fees.




Fees




Fees



17

(1)  Fees or dues shall be payable yearly to the credit of
the Minister of Finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner
of every steam boiler as follows: At the first inspection, except
as provided in subsection (3), $1 per horsepower, minimum charge
$50, maximum charge $200, for each boiler. All subsequent yearly
inspections, 75¢ per horsepower, minimum charge $50.


(2)  Fees for the inspection of boilers during construction
and hydrostatic testing on completion shall be payable to the
credit of the Minister of Finance, through the chief inspector, by
the manufacturer at the rate of 50¢ per horsepower, minimum charge
$50. The manufacturer shall then be issued an Inspector's Report
of Examination and Hydrostatic Boiler Test, and a certificate may
be issued when the boiler is placed in service upon payment of the
first inspection fee by the owner in accordance with subsection
(1).


(3)  For the surveying, inspection and first hydrostatic
testing of a boiler not built under inspection and in respect of
which no certificate of inspection has been issued under these
regulations, fees shall be payable to the credit of the Minister
of Finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner or his agent
at the rate of $1.50 per horsepower, with a minimum charge of $75
and a maximum charge of $300. On payment of this fee by the owner
or his agent, and provided the inspector is satisfied with the
condition of the boiler, the owner may be issued a certificate to
operate the boiler, and the fees for subsequent yearly inspections
shall be in accordance with subsection (1).


(4)  For the internal inspection of boilers, as required
under sections 20 and 23, fees shall be payable to the credit of
the Minister of Finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner
as follows: For boilers 75 horsepower and under, $50; 76 up to 150
horsepower, $75; over 150 horsepower, $100 for each boiler.


(5)  Fees for the inspection of air reservoirs during
construction and hydrostatic testing on completion shall be
payable by the manufacturer to the credit of the Minister of
Finance, through the chief inspector, as follows: For each air
reservoir 36 inches in diameter, $30. For each pressure vessel
designed for pressures in excess of 500 pounds, $50.


(6)  Fees for the inspection of air reservoirs, subsequent to
their construction, shall be payable to the credit of the Minister
of Finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner according to
the scale of fees contained in subsection (4).

[am. B.C. Reg. 172/87, s. 5 (a)-(g).]




Fee for further inspection within year



18

In case of defects requiring repairs that render another
inspection necessary within the year, a minimum fee of $50 for
each inspection and expenses will be charged; or when an inspector
acts in an advisory capacity, a fee of $200 per day and expenses
will be charged.

[am. B.C. Reg. 172/87, s. 5 (b), (h).]




Definitions



19

The word
"yearly"
in connection with yearly fees means the calendar year from
January 1 to December 31. For the purpose of an inspection
rendered necessary "within the year", referred to in the last
preceding section, the word
"year"
means 12 calendar months from the date (if required during the
first year) or the anniversary of the date (if required during
subsequent years) of the first certificate of inspection. The word
"horsepower"
means the power of a boiler calculated by dividing the number of
square feet of heating surface by 10.




Interior Inspection of Boilers




Interior inspection — general



20

Inspectors shall examine the interior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever a sufficient number of
flues are removed to allow of examination.





Interior inspection — ordered



21

After due consideration has been given as to years in service or
when for any reason it is deemed the interior parts or shell of
the boiler must be examined, the chief inspector may order all the
tubes removed so that an internal examination of the boiler can be
made.





Details of interior inspection



22

Inspectors must examine the entire interior of the boiler for
cracks, pitting, grooving or indication of overheating, and for
damage where mud has collected or heavy scale formed. The edges of
plates, all laps, seams and points where cracks and defects are
likely to develop, or which an exterior examination may have
indicated, must be given an especially minute examination. It must
be seen that braces and stays are taut, that pins are properly
secured in place, and that each is in a condition to support its
proportion of the load.




Exterior Inspection of Boilers




Exterior inspection — general



23

Inspectors shall examine the exterior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever the jacket and lagging
are removed.





Exterior inspection — ordered



24

If an inspector considers it necessary, he may order the removal
of the jacket and lagging at any time when leaks are indicated or
where he may have reason to suspect defects are in evidence.




Hydrostatic Testing of Boilers




Requirement for hydrostatic testing



25

Inspectors shall, whenever it is deemed necessary, and they shall,
before a boiler is put into service, and at least once a year
thereafter, subject each and every boiler as set forth in this
Part to a hydrostatic test of at least 25% and not more than 50%
of the working pressure allowed, using water at a temperature of
between 60 and 100° Fahrenheit. The pressures shall be under
proper control. During hydrostatic tests, the safety valve or
valves shall be removed or each valve disk shall be held to its
seat by means of a testing clamp and not by screwing down the
compression screw upon the spring.





Owner's responsibility during testing



26

For the purpose of such tests the owner or his agent shall provide
the necessary piping and fittings to connect the inspector's pump
to the boiler, and shall provide men to fill the boiler with
water, make all joints, work the test pump and assist the
inspector during the test.





Dome-cap and throttle stand-pipe removal



27

The dome cap or manhole covers must be removed and the interior
surface and connections of the boiler examined as thoroughly as
conditions will permit.





Inspection after repairs



28

When all necessary repairs have been completed, the boiler shall
be fired up and the steam pressure raised to not less than the
allowed working pressure, and the boiler and appurtenances
carefully examined. All cocks, valves, seams, rivets and bolts
must be tight under the pressure and all defects disclosed must be
repaired.





Defects and reinspection



29

In any case where defects are discovered or in which the test is
unsatisfactory to the inspector, the defects shall be made good
and the boiler reinspected before a certificate is issued.




Staybolt Testing




Frequency of testing



30

All staybolts shall be tested at least once each month. Staybolts
shall also be tested at the time of each annual hydrostatic test.





Testing of flexible staybolts



31

Inspectors shall, when they deem it necessary, order the caps of
flexible staybolts removed so that the staybolt heads can be
examined.





Parts of boilers must conform to Part I of Boiler Code



32

For the purpose of this Part the design of all stays, flat
surfaces and other parts of boilers shall conform to Part I of the
Ministry's Boiler Code.




Steam Plants to Conform to Ministry's Boiler Code




Stationary steam plants must conform to Boiler Code



33

Every stationary steam plant to which these regulations apply
shall conform to the requirements of the Ministry's Boiler Code.
In particular, Part I of the Boiler Code shall govern the design,
registration and construction of all stationary boilers as well as
all appurtenances, fittings, piping, settings and boiler rooms of
such stationary boilers and all things attached thereto and used
in conjunction therewith.


Part III of the Boiler Code shall govern the design, registration
and construction of all unfired pressure vessels used in or with
conjunction to any such stationary boiler or shop to which these
regulations apply.




Boiler Attendants




Fitness and instruction of boiler personnel



34

Except as otherwise provided, it shall be the duty of the
locomotive foreman, or the person acting in the capacity of
locomotive foreman, in charge at each point where stationary
boilers are operated, to see that the personnel engaged in firing
or attending such boilers are fit and proper persons to perform
these duties. It shall also be the duty of the locomotive foreman,
or persons acting in the capacity of locomotive foreman, under
whose charge such boilers are operating, to see that boiler
attendants have been properly instructed as to safe operation of
stationary boilers, and that all such attendants report any
defects or irregularities immediately to him.





Reporting of defects



35

It shall be the duty of every locomotive foreman, or person acting
in the capacity of locomotive foreman, to see that the chief
inspector is notified of any defects known to exist in boilers
operating under his charge.





Substitution of unfit personnel



36

In cases where, after proper investigation, it has been proved to
the satisfaction of the chief inspector that locomotive foremen or
attendants employed are not fit and proper persons to be in charge
of stationary steam plants, the chief inspector shall notify the
company in writing that until fit and proper persons are employed
to fulfil these duties properly qualified engineers certified
under the

Power Engineers and Boiler and Pressure Vessel Safety Act

shall be engaged.




Testing of Shop Air Receivers




Testing of air receivers



37

Before using, and every 12 months thereafter, all air receivers
shall be hydrostatically and hammer tested. The hydrostatic test
applied shall be 25% in excess of the allowed working pressure.
After testing, all such receivers shall be stencilled as to date
of test and hydrostatic pressure applied during test.





Filing of form



38

After test as outlined in section 37, Form M.P. 306 shall be
filled in and signed and displayed under glass adjacent to air
receivers tested, and a copy must be filed with the chief
inspector.





Placement of main air receivers



39

Main air receivers shall be placed outside of buildings adjacent
to compressor room. They must be placed clear of eave drips and
wherever possible placed on end on appropriate stands, and
extraneous material shall not be allowed to accumulate in or
around such air receivers.





Testing of pressure tanks



40

Before using, and every 12 months thereafter, all pressure tanks
used in conjunction with shop equipment such as tire shimming
torches, whitewashing machines, etc., shall be subjected to a
hydrostatic and hammer test of at least 25% in excess of the main
shop receiver pressure. After testing, all such tanks shall be
stencilled with the date and place of such test and the
hydrostatic pressure applied during test.




Shop Tracks and Yard




Compliance with B.C. Reg. 452/59



41

With respect to buildings and structures, proper compliance must
be made with Part I, the Location, Construction and Clearances
Regulations (B.C. Reg. 452/59).





Distance of material from nearest rail



42

No material shall be placed or piled closer than 6 feet from the
gauge side of the nearest rail.





Packings of switches and frogs



43

Special attention shall be given to the packings of switches and
frogs on shop tracks where workmen are employed.





Warning of open pits



44

Where it is impracticable to rail off open pits (such as
locomotive pits), it is recommended that a yellow painted line be
maintained 2 feet from the walk edge of the opening of all such
pits. Rail stops on roundhouse and shop pits shall be painted
yellow.




Ventilation of Shops




Ventilation of locomotive exhaust



45

Roof jacks shall be properly maintained where steam locomotives
are housed. Provision shall be made where diesel or gas
locomotives are housed for proper ventilation from exhaust of
locomotives to outside atmosphere.





Welding ventilation and screens



46

Where welders are working, proper ventilation shall be maintained
and appropriate shield screens used to protect other workmen from
arc flash.




Buildings and Structures




Building construction



47

All buildings in and around which workmen are employed shall be of
substantial construction, and the roofs, particularly in districts
where heavy snowfalls may be expected, shall be amply braced and
designed to carry such loads.





Space for equipment extending below floor line



48

Where machinery or equipment that requires oiling, adjusting or
repairing extends below the floor line of any workshop, there
shall be sufficient working area with adequate headroom in order
that the necessary work may be safely performed.





Fire escapes



49

Adequate fire escapes of approved design shall be provided in all
buildings where workmen are employed. Exits leading to fire
escapes shall be direct and shall be kept clear at all times, and
the location of exits shall be conspicuously marked by placards.





Fire hoses and extinguishers



50

All buildings where workmen are employed shall be equipped with
adequate water mains and fire hose and with chemical fire
extinguishers of proper type which shall be kept in good order.
All fire fighting equipment shall be frequently inspected.





Main inside and outside doors



51

The main inside and outside doors shall open outwardly, and any
doors leading to or being the principal or main entrance to shops
or to any tower, stairway or fire escape therein or belonging
thereto, shall not be bolted, barred or locked during the usual
working hours.





Landings and floors



52

All doors shall, wherever possible, open on to adequate landings
or floors.





Swinging doors



53

Swinging doors shall be provided with windows or port lookouts.





Floors



54

Floors of working areas shall be kept in good condition and free
from all unnecessary debris.





Drainage for spilled liquids



55

When the operation is such that liquids are spilled on the floor,
suitable drainage facilities shall be installed to care for such
spillage.





Slipping hazards



56

Where the nature of the work creates a slipping hazard, floors
shall, wherever possible, be constructed with a cleated,
corrugated or rough abrasive surface.





Steel decks



57

All machinery or structures with steel decks shall be equipped
with safety treads, wherever possible.





Placement and proximity of machines



58

Machines shall not be installed in such close proximity to one
another as to constitute a hazard from crowding, nor shall they be
placed so that it is necessary for the operator to work in or near
a thoroughfare which is used in such manner as to endanger him.





Aisles



59

Aisles of sufficient width shall be provided in all work areas to
permit the safe passage of vehicles or workmen using the aisles
and provide sufficient space in which to handle necessary material
without interference from or to other workmen or machines.





Floors, platforms and decks



60

Floors, platforms and decks shall be kept in good repair and free
from protruding nails, grease, slime and debris, and the decks of
wharves shall have clear passageway all around front and sides so
that ropes may be handled in safety.





Lifebuoys



61

Lifebuoys equipped with lines shall be installed on floats,
wharves and other places where workmen are employed on or about
water.





Guardrails



62

All floats, docks, wharves and all elevated vehicular
thoroughfares shall be equipped with a substantial guardrail (bull
rail).




Safeguards




Guarding of dangerous machinery, structures or places



63

All dangerous parts of gearing, machinery, shafting, vats, pans,
cauldrons, reservoirs, wheel races, flumes, water channels, doors,
openings in the floors or walks, bridges and all dangerous
structures or places shall be securely guarded.





Inspector may require guarding devices



64

When any dangerous part, structure or place has not been
adequately guarded or when safe methods or processes are not
employed, as required by these regulations, and notice to that
effect has been given to the employers by any inspector authorized
or appointed to inspect same, the guarding devices or methods
deemed necessary by the inspector shall be done and put into
effect as required by and within the time specified by such
inspector.





Restriction on removal of safeguards during repairs



65

No workman shall remove or make ineffective any safeguard, safety
appliance or device attached to machinery, except for the purpose
of immediately making repairs or adjustments or as otherwise
provided for in these regulations; and any workman who removes or
makes ineffective any such safeguard, safety appliance or device
for repairs or adjustments shall replace the same immediately upon
the completion of such repairs or adjustments.





Replacement of safeguards



66

Every employer or person exercising direction or control over any
workmen who remove such safeguard, safety appliance or device, or
over any workmen for whose protection it is designed, shall have
the safeguard, safety appliance or device so removed promptly and
properly replaced.





Workers must use safeguards



67

Every workman shall use all safeguards, safety appliances or
devices furnished for his protection and shall carry out all
regulations which may concern or affect his conduct.





Safeguards on moving parts of machinery



68

In general, machines and mechanical equipment shall have all
moving parts, where exposed to contact and where any recognized
hazard exists, properly protected with approved safeguards.





Safeguards on new machinery



69

When new machines are being purchased, specifications shall, if
possible, require same to be equipped by manufacturer or dealer
with suitable guards. Machines shall be properly guarded before
being used.





Material and construction of safeguards



70

All safeguards shall be well constructed of the best material for
the purpose, and so made as to be suitable for reinstallation
after being dismantled.




Safe Conditions




Condition of buildings and equipment



71

All buildings, structures, machinery and equipment shall be of
sufficient size and strength to safely withstand imposed stresses
and to safely perform the functions for which they are used.





Inspections of buildings and equipment



72

Regular inspections of all buildings, structures, machinery and
equipment shall be made by a competent person or persons as often
as the character of the equipment and type of operation requires.
Defective equipment or unsafe conditions found by these
inspections shall be corrected or replaced, or their use
discontinued.





Safe access



73

All places where work is performed shall have safe access thereto,
and such safe means of access shall be used by all workmen.





No outdoor work in adverse weather conditions



74

Except in cases of emergency, work shall not be carried on out of
doors when conditions of the weather are such as to endanger
workmen.




Tanks and Vessels




Supports and ladders



75

The supports of all elevated tanks shall be accessible for the
purpose of inspection. Every tank over 7 feet deep containing
liquids shall have a fixed ladder both inside and outside, except
that tanks with fixed permanent covers, and with manholes close to
bottom, need have outside ladders only.





Open tanks containing harmful substances



76

(1)  When workmen are employed around open tanks containing
harmful substances, the sides of such tanks shall extend at least
36 inches above the working platform, or a standard handrail shall
be provided.


(2)  Walkways over open tanks containing harmful substances
or over tanks 4 feet or more in depth shall be at least 20 inches
wide and equipped with standard handrails.





Cylinders for compressed gas



77

No cylinder shall be charged with compressed gas unless such
cylinder is of a type approved for the kind of gas to be contained
and had been periodically inspected and pressure tested and found
to comply with standards required for the transportation of such
cylinders in Canada.





Preparation for repair of vessels for hazardous substances



78

Barrels and similar vessels that have contained oil, gasoline,
other petroleum products or acids shall be thoroughly flushed out,
first with steam and then with water, immediately prior to making
any repairs or alterations requiring heat or flame. In cleaning
out, these containers shall have been completely filled with
water. Bungs or plugs shall be removed while such work is being
carried on.





Containers for hazardous fluids



79

Closed, underwriters' approved containers shall be used for
gasoline, coal oil, acids and similar fluids and shall be plainly
marked to indicate the character of the contents.





Preparation for repair of vessels for combustible substances



80

No burning, welding or other hot work shall be done on any vessel
that has contained a highly combustible substance until such
vessel has been thoroughly cleaned and suitable tests made to
indicate that the vessel is in a condition that the work may be
safely performed.





Protection against fumes



81

No workman shall enter any tank, vessel or chamber that may
contain toxic fumes or gases until it has been ascertained that
the air contained therein is sufficiently pure. In doubtful cases,
air supply respirators and life lines shall be used by workmen
entering such places, and another workman shall be stationed at
the entrance to assist those that may become distressed.




Lighting




Adequate lighting for workers



82

Adequate lighting shall be provided in all establishments where
workmen are employed.





Portable lighting



83

Where permanent lights cannot be installed, workmen shall be
furnished with portable lights.





Portable lighting for workers climbing ladders



84

When it is necessary for workmen to climb ladders, the portable
lights shall be capable of being carried in such a manner as to
leave both hands free for climbing safely.





Safety devices for portable lights



85

Portable extension lights shall be equipped with a guard and shall
be made with weatherproof sockets and heavy duty cord.




Electrical Safety Regulations



Switches




Compliance with
Electrical Safety Act
regulations



86

All electrical wiring and apparatus used on other than motive
power and rolling stock shall comply with the current regulations
as set forth under the
Electrical Safety Act
.





Compliance with
Railway Act
regulations



87

In addition to the following regulations respecting electrical
safety, full compliance must be made with Part I of the
regulations made pursuant to the
Railway Act
, in particular, "Standard Conditions and Specifications for Wire
Crossings".





Access to switches



88

Means of access to switches shall be clear of obstructions at all
times.





If switch open for inspection or repair



89

When any switch has been opened to allow of inspection of or
repairs to the equipment it controls, such switch shall be locked
or otherwise secured in the "OFF" position and a notice, "NOT TO
BE CLOSED", attached thereto.





Marking of switches — circuits and motors



90

All switches shall be plainly marked to show the circuits which
they control. All motors shall be marked to indicate the
controlling switch.





Operation of external switches



91

Externally operable switches shall be operated with the left hand
as this places the operator more remote from the danger zone.




Equipment




Safety equipment for workers on electrical equipment



92

Every employer shall furnish rubber gloves, shields or other
necessary safety equipment of an approved pattern to all workmen
engaged at work on wires or apparatus operating at a potential of
over 250 volts.





Specifications for rubber gloves and equipment



93

The safe maximum potential established for the use of rubber
gloves and rubber equipment used for protection while working on
energized conductors is 3 000 volts to ground. Rubber gloves which
are manufactured and tested for this requirement, namely, 10 000
volt test with a specified factor of safety of 3 1/3, shall be
used.





Two workers for certain electrical work



94

No work shall be done on any live wire, cable or appliance
carrying more than 600 volts by less than 2 competent and
experienced workmen, both of whom at all times while performing
such work shall be in the same room, chamber or other place where
such work is being done; provided that this section shall not
apply to the fusing of transformers carrying less than 2 400
volts, where such transformer fuses are accessible without passing
or reaching past cables or appliances. The foregoing regulation
also applies to any work being performed on overhead electric
lines.





Switches for high tension supply services



95

Wherever high tension supply services enter industrial plants, and
it is practicable to do so, suitable manually operated
disconnecting switches shall be installed.





Insulating platforms or mats



96

Insulating platforms or mats of adequate size shall be placed in
front of all switches, switchboards, control devices or other
parts connected to circuits operating at more than 150 volts to
ground.





Electrical supply equipment



97

All electrical supply equipment shall be of standard and approved
construction and so installed and maintained as to reduce the life
hazard as far as practicable. All cables, wires, connections,
resistances, etc., shall be situated as not to form any
obstruction to the passageway around switchboards.





Illumination for electrical equipment



98

Adequate and suitable illumination, controlled from a readily
accessible place, shall be provided at all switchboards, fuses,
boxes, starters, control devices around electrical machines, and
at other places where workmen may come into proximity to live
parts.





Insulation of ladders



99

No ladders having reinforcing of wire or other conducting material
shall be used in proximity to any electrical wires or equipment.
All ladders which may be used on or near equipment operated at
more than 600 volts shall be equipped with feet of insulating
material.





Warning notices



100

Notices reading "DANGER—HIGH VOLTAGE" shall be placed in prominent
positions and maintained in legible condition in proximity to all
electrical equipment operating at over 600 volts to ground, and
which may be accessible to unqualified persons.




Overhead Regulations




Handling of conductors on live circuit poles



101

On poles carrying live circuits, conductors shall not be pulled
around corners. Such conductors shall be pulled up to the corner
and made secure before pulling the next section, or all circuits
shall be made dead before pulling.





Two workers for certain electrical work



102

No work shall be permitted to be done on any live wire, cable or
apparatus carrying more than 600 volts by less than 2 competent
and experienced workmen, both of whom at all times while
performing such work shall be on the same pole or structure on
which such work is being done; provided that this regulation shall
not apply to the fusing of transformers which are carried beneath
the lowest high tension wire.





Protection from falling materials



103

When linemen are at work on poles or other structures located
where workmen may pass and suffer injury from falling tools,
material, etc., a temporary guard, fence or notice shall be placed
to prevent or warn such workmen from passing beneath such pole or
structure.





Soundness of pole or structure



104

Before beginning work on any pole or structure, such pole or
structure shall be tested for soundness. When any doubt as to such
soundness exists, the pole or structure shall be effectively guyed
or otherwise supported from falling before changing any wires or
cable thereon.





Retention of guys or supports



105

Guys or supports shall be left in place until workmen are clear
and poles are ready to be lowered to the ground.




Maintenance and Operation




Work in proximity to wires and equipment



106

When painting, cleaning, repairs or any other work is to be
carried out in or around any building, bridge or structure in
proximity to wires or other equipment which are normally isolated
by elevation, such wires or parts shall be provided with effective
guards or shall be made dead while the work is being carried out.





Short-circuiting and grounding of line wires



107

When line wires of 600 volts or over are cut at the power station
or substation to allow workmen to work upon them, they shall be
short-circuited and grounded at the station and shall be, in
addition, if the line wires are bare, short circuited and, where
possible, grounded at the place where the work is being done.





Switches for lines or equipment being handled



108

Before workmen are required to work on any line or equipment
which, for safety, must be handled dead, the workman in charge
shall notify the operator to open and tag the switches controlling
same.





Testing devices



109

In all electrical installations having 110 volts or over, approved
testing devices for testing fuses, circuits, etc., shall be kept
on hand. Banks of lamps are not approved for testing purposes.





Extensions and connectors



110

On all extensions for lamps or other portable equipment, approved
reinforced cords, type S, shall be used. Connectors shall be so
arranged that no live parts are exposed when the 2 halves of the
connector are separated.





Sockets on portable cord



111

Sockets for use on portable cord shall have over the shell a
rubber covering of a type approved for hard usage.





Joints



112

Joints shall be neatly made, soldered and covered with rubber tape
and friction tape so as to form insulation equivalent to that of
the conductor itself.





Lamp sockets



113

Lamp sockets, unless they are so installed as to be out of reach
from any grounded surface, shall be of the porcelain or
weatherproof type.





Push buttons



114

All push buttons on cross-the-line starters shall be provided with
some form of locking out feature.





Approved equipment only



115

All electrical equipment, apparatus or appliances used shall be of
approved design and material and shall bear an approval label or
stamp and be provided with a name plate bearing the maker's name
and giving the capacity in volts, amperes, cycles, etc.





Qualified worker



116

No workman shall do work for which he is not properly qualified on
or about live equipment or lines, except under the direct
supervision of an experienced and properly qualified person.





Qualified person to oversee work



117

Workmen whose employment incidentally brings them in the
neighbourhood of electrical supply equipment or lines with the
dangers of which they are not familiar shall proceed with their
work only when authorized. They shall then be accompanied by a
properly qualified and authorized person, whose instructions shall
be strictly obeyed.





Hazardous equipment must comply with regulations



118

All wires, cables, poles, electric fixtures or appliances of every
kind or nature being used or operated at the time of the passage
of these regulations, which are liable to cause a hazard to life
or property, shall be changed and made to conform with the
provisions of the regulations.




Machinery




No unauthorized tool or machinery use



119

No workmen shall use any tools, appliances, machinery or equipment
unless authorized to do so.





Machinery repair requirements



120

Any machinery or equipment to be repaired shall be shut down
before such repairs are made. Whenever necessary, the power shall
be disconnected and the control device tagged. Tags used for this
purpose shall warn against starting of such machinery and shall
bear the name of the person responsible for shutting same down.
All other persons shall be prohibited from starting the equipment.





Cleaning and oiling of machinery in motion



121

The cleaning and oiling of machinery while in motion is prohibited
in all places where exposure to contact with moving parts is
involved.





Stopping device for powered machinery



122

Where power driven machinery is used, a stopping device shall be
provided at each machine, within easy reach of the operator.





Stopping devices for machinery



123

All electrically driven machines shall have stopping devices
installed. All machines not individually motor driven shall be
equipped with a loose pulley or a clutch or some other adequate
means of stopping the machine quickly.





Starting devices and controls



124

Starting devices shall be adequately guarded to prevent accidental
starting. Starting controls shall be within sight of operator or
be controlled by a suitable signal device. Where machines are
operated by treadle, an iron stirrup shall be fastened to the
floor over the treadle, leaving only sufficient room for the
operator's foot between treadle and stirrup.





Guards for cranks and rods



125

Cranks, connecting rods, tail rods or extension piston rods shall
be suitably guarded when exposed to contact.





Counterweights



126

Counterweights shall be provided with substantial safety chains or
cables, or otherwise secured against falling where danger to
workmen is involved.





Fans



127

Fans shall be provided with suitable guards to prevent contact
with the moving parts.




Abrasive Wheels




Hoods, guards, etc.



128

Wheels used for grinding purposes shall be equipped with a hood
connected with an exhaust fan or water system. A guard shall be
provided as a part of the hood construction or in addition to the
hood, which shall be strong enough to withstand the shock of a
bursting wheel. This guard shall be adjusted close to the wheel
and extended over the top to a point 30° beyond a vertical line
drawn through the centre of the wheel. The exhaust or water system
is not required on emery wheels which are in general use by
workmen to touch up castings or tools.





Grinding wheel speed



129

The speed of grinding wheels shall not exceed the speed guaranteed
by manufacturers.





Flanges on grinding wheels



130

When used on grinding wheels all tapered flanges over 10 inches in
diameter shall be of steel. All other flanges may be of cast iron
or material of equal strength. Compression washers shall be placed
between the flanges and wheel.





Protective goggles for emery wheels



131

Suitable goggles, kept close to emery wheels, shall be supplied to
and WORN by workmen, while working at these wheels, or the wheels
shall be equipped with extension guards with adequate steel frames
and shatterproof glass, which shall be kept in proper position
whenever wheels are used. Goggles shall be worn at all times by
workmen working at machines where 2 or more wheels are operating,
whether fitted with glass guards or not.





Workrest



132

A substantial workrest shall be used whenever possible. This rest
shall not be below the centre line of the wheel nor farther than
1/8 inch from the cutting face.





Protective goggles for metallic buffing wheels



133

Goggles shall be worn by workmen using metallic buffing wheels.




Transmission Machinery and Equipment




Horizontal shaft protection



134

Any portion of a horizontal shaft which is 7 feet or less from the
floor or working platform shall be guarded on the sides and bottom
or protected by a standard railing ensuring at least 15 inches and
not more than 20 inches horizontal clearance from the nearest
moving part.





When shafts must be encased



135

Vertical or inclined transmission shafting shall be encased to a
height of 7 feet from the floor.





Protection of projecting shaft ends



136

All projecting shaft ends shall be cut off or properly protected
with stationary casing.





Collars



137

All revolving collars, including split collars, shall be
cylindrical, and screws or bolts used in collars shall not project
beyond the largest periphery of the collar.





Shaft couplings



138

Shaft coupling shall be so constructed or guarded as to present no
hazard from bolts, nuts, set screws or revolving surfaces.





Friction clutch couplings



139

Friction clutch couplings shall have their operating mechanisms,
where exposed, completely guarded, and friction coupling handles
shall be placed at a safe distance from couplings.





Exposed keys



140

Keys exposed to contact shall be made flush or guarded.





Set screws and bolts



141

Set screws and bolts on revolving parts of machinery shall be
placed flush with collars or shafts, or be properly guarded.





Friction drives, gears and spokes of gears



142

The contact faces of all friction drives, gears and spokes of
gears shall be guarded. The guard of friction drives shall be
arranged to permit of application of lime or other dressing
without removal of guard.





Flywheels and pulleys



143

All sections of flywheels or pulleys which are 7 feet or less from
the floor or platform and which are exposed to contact shall be
guarded. Flywheels or pulleys which run in pits shall be provided
with handrail and toe board around the pit. Main or auxiliary
engines shall be completely railed or fenced off so that no
unauthorized person can gain access thereto.





Pulley placement



144

Pulleys shall be so placed as to allow 1 1/2 times the width of
the belt between 2 pulleys, or between the pulley and the shaft
hangers, or a hook shall be provided, or a safeguard placed
adjacent to the pulley to prevent the belt from leaving the
pulley.





Pulleys near bearings



145

Pulleys within 24 inches measured horizontally from the nearest
part of the pulley to the centre of a bearing that is not of the
"self oiling" type shall, if exposed to contact, be guarded with
an approved safeguard placed between the bearing and pulley.





Driven pulleys with no bearings



146

Driven pulleys on line shafts, jack shafts or counter shafting
where there is no bearing between the pulley and the outer end of
the shaft shall be provided with approved safeguards to prevent
the belt from running off the driven pulley.





Pulleys with counterweights



147

Idler pulleys or tighteners used to tighten belts on pulleys, if
provided with counterweights, shall have counterweights guarded or
enclosed.





Use of damaged or repaired flywheels and pulleys



148

Welded or brazed cast iron flywheels or pulleys shall not be used.
Pulleys or flywheels which have been through a fire shall not
again be used unless examined and approved by an inspector.
Pulleys with cracks or pieces broken out of rims shall not be
used. Cast iron flywheels and pulleys shall not be used after
being repaired or reconditioned by welding.





Rim velocity of flywheels and pulleys



149

The rim velocity of cast iron flywheels and pulleys shall not
exceed 5 000 feet per minute.





Belt, rope and chain driven machinery or shafting



150

All belt, rope or chain driven machinery or shafting, and all
secondary belts, ropes or chains, where exposed to contact, shall
be guarded. In all cases the point where the belt, rope or chain
runs on to the pulley, sheave or sprocket, if within 7 feet of the
floor or platform, shall be guarded.





Belts, ropes or chains



151

All horizontal, vertical or inclined belts, ropes or chains
driving machinery or shafting 7 feet or less above the floor or
platform, where exposed to contact, shall be guarded. All overhead
belts, and overhead chains or rope drives, more than 7 feet from
the floor or platform, shall be adequately guarded. In all cases
the guard shall cover the outer faces of the 2 pulleys or sheaves
and extend upward to such a point and be attached in such a way
that, in case the belt, chain or rope breaks, the guards will
withstand the whipping force.





Some belts exempt from guarding



152

Horizontal flat belts one inch or less in width and single round
belts 1/2 inch or less in diameter running at any speed, and flat
belts in association with flat or crowned pulleys when 2 inches or
less in width which are free from metal lacings or fasteners and
running not more than 250 feet per minute, are exempted from
guarding.





Vertical and inclined belts



153

Vertical and inclined belts, if not more than 2 1/2 inches wide
and running at a speed of less than 1 000 feet per minute and if
free from metal lacings or fastenings may be guarded with a nip
point belt and pulley guard.





Belt tighteners



154

Belt tighteners which control the operation of machines shall be
equipped with a safety lock or stop which will prevent the
application of the tightener to its belt until the lock or stop is
released. A chain or cable shall be attached to all tightener
frames to prevent tightener pulley striking other pulleys or
workmen if belt breaks.





Belt shifters on loose pulleys



155

All loose pulleys shall be furnished with a permanent belt shifter
so located as to be within easy reach of the operator. The belt
shifter shall be so constructed (equipped with a locking device
set in notches or other device) as to make it impossible for the
belt to creep from the loose pulley on to the tight pulley.





Belts over 4 inches on cone pulleys



156

All belts over 4 inches in width running on cone pulleys shall be
provided with belt shifters.





Application of dressing to belts



157

Dressing shall not be applied to belts while in motion except at
the off-running side.





Out of use belts



158

When a belt is not in use it shall be hung clear of shafting and
pulleys.





Gears, etc. for chain drives



159

All forms of spur gears, pinions, bevel gears, mortise wheels and
sprockets for chain drives, wherever located, shall be strongly
and completely encased, or, where this is impracticable, shall
have a band guard provided with side flanges extending inward
beyond the root of the teeth. Where there is a spoke hazard the
gears shall be enclosed on the exposed sides.





Drip cups or pans under bearings



160

Where it is necessary for workmen to pass under bearings, said
bearings shall be equipped with drip cups or pans, securely
fastened in position.




Cranes, Derricks, Hoists and Similar Structures




Construction, erection, maintenance and use



161

All cranes, derricks, hoists and similar equipment shall be
constructed, erected, maintained and used so that no part shall be
stressed beyond its safe working strength.





Safety factors



162

All apparatus shall be designed throughout with not less than the
following factors of safety, under full rated load:

(a) load hook, not less than 10;

(b) all gear and hoist shafting, not less than 8;

(c) all other parts, not less than 5.




Inspection and maintenance



163

All cranes, derricks and hoists shall be carefully and frequently
inspected and kept in perfect working order. All working parts and
wire rope shall be kept well oiled. Any weak members shall be at
once made good.




Repairing Overhead Cranes




Location during repair



164

When a crane is being repaired, it shall be located where the
repair work shall least interfere with the other cranes and with
operations on the floor.





Controllers and switches



165

Before starting repairs, the repairman shall see that all
controllers are thrown in the "off" position, and that main or
emergency switches are open, and one of them shall be locked.





Warning signs and safety stops



166

When a crane is to be repaired, there shall immediately be placed
warning signs or out of order signs on crane and on floor beneath.
If other cranes are operated on the same runway, safety stops
shall be placed at a safe distance.





No workers beneath crane during repair



167

Workmen shall not work on the floor beneath the crane while it is
being repaired.





Platform or canvas under crane



168

When a crane is being repaired, wherever possible, a platform
shall be erected or a canvas stretched underneath the crane.




Rigging




Working load



169

The working load on ropes, chains, slings and fittings shall not
exceed the working strength guaranteed by manufacturers.





Safety factor



170

The factor of safety for rings, hooks, shackles and all other
fittings shall be 50% greater than that of the line.





Inspection



171

Ropes, chains, slings, and fittings shall be inspected thoroughly
at regular intervals and when found to have deteriorated to such
an extent as to make them unsafe for use they shall be discarded.





Shackle pins



172

A nut, keeper or forelock shall be used with all shackle pins.





Handling wire rope



173

Gloves shall be worn when handling wire rope.





Eyebolts



174

The pull on eyebolt shall always be in line with the bolt.





Spreader bars



175

Spreader bars shall be used when necessary.





No kink, knot or twist



176

A lift shall never be made with a kink, knot or twist in a chain.




Ladders




Lumber used in ladders



177

Lumber used in ladders shall be straight grain, select common,
B.C. Lumber & Shingle Manufacturers' grade or better.





Side rails



178

Side rails shall be dressed on all sides, sharp edges eliminated
and free from splinters. The minimum size of side rails shall be
as follows:





Length of Ladder


Thickness


Depth




(Feet)


(Inches)


(Inches)



Up to and including 19
1 1/8
2 1/2


Over 19, up to and including 23
1 1/8
2 5/8


Over 23, up to and including 25
1 1/8
2 3/4


Overt 25, up to and including 27
1 1/4
2 3/4


Over 27, up to and including 30
1 1/4
2 7/8


Over 30, up to and including 33
1 5/16
3







Rungs and steps



179

Flat rungs of wooden ladders shall be at least one inch by 2 1/2
inches and shall be secured by a least 3 screws or wire nails to
each side rail. Flat rungs shall be notched into side rails 1/2
inch at the lower side or fillers shall be inserted between rungs.
Round rungs shall be at least 1 1/4 inches diameter with tenons
1/4 inch less diameter fitting through side rails, secured with a
screw or wire nail through tenon at mid-length. All steps (rungs,
cleats or treads) shall be designed to carry safely a load of 450
pounds on the centre of the step. A uniform step spacing shall be
used, which shall not exceed 12 inches.





Width between side rails



180

The width between the side rails at the base shall be in no case
less than 12 inches for ladders up to and including 10 feet in
length. For longer ladders this width shall be increased at least
1/4 inch for each additional foot of length.




Extension Ladders




Construction and dimensions



181

(1)  Except when approved by the ministry no extension ladder
shall have more than 3 sections and shall not exceed 60 feet in
length when fully extended. Sliding sections shall be equipped
with metal shackles and pulleys, shall be raised and lowered by
means of a rope, and each section shall be equipped with 2
automatic locks of an approved type. Frayed or badly worn rope
shall not be used.


(2)  The underside of side rails shall have galvanized wire
nailed into grooves of suitable size and securely fastened at both
ends, except when the ladder is to be used in proximity to
electrical equipment.


(3)  The minimum lap of sections when extended shall not
exceed the following:




Extension up to 38 feet
3 feet overlap


Extension up to 44 feet
4 feet overlap


Extension up to 60 feet
5 feet overlap






Stepladders




Maximum length



182

Portable stepladders over 20 feet in length shall not be used.





Treads and slope of front section



183

Stepladders shall be so constructed that when in the open position
the front section shall have a minimum slope of 3 1/2 inches and
the back section a minimum slope of 2 inches for each 12 inch
length of side rail. When in position all treads shall be level.





Width between side rails



184

The minimum inside width between side rails at the top step of
stepladders shall be not less than 12 inches, with a spread of at
least one inch for each foot of length of stepladder.





Leg bracing



185

To hold legs securely in proper position stepladders shall be
equipped with metal braces or substantial cords installed at a
distance from bottom of 1/3 of height of stepladder.





Side rail dimensions



186

The side rails of stepladders shall have the following solid cross
section or a section equivalent thereto in strength. The required
thickness provides for the cutting of a gain not over 1/8 inch in
depth and shall be increased when gains of greater depth are used.





Length of Side Rail


Minimum Thickness


Minimum Width




(Feet)


(Inches)


(Inches)



Up to and including 10
3/4
2 3/4


Over 10, up to and including 12
3/4
3


Over 12, up to and including 16
3/4
3 1/4


Over 16, up to and including 20
1
3 1/4







Back legs



187

The back legs of all stepladders shall be at least 1 3/4 inches
wide and of the same thickness as side rails. Cross rails and
braces shall be not less than 1/2 inch thick and shall be securely
fastened.





Diagonal bracing and cross rails



188

Stepladders 10 feet and less in height shall have a bottom cross
rail and diagonal braces. Stepladders over 10 feet in height shall
have bottom and intermediate cross rails and 2 sets of diagonal
bracing. Cross rails shall be not less than 4 inches wide and
diagonal braces not less than 2 inches wide.





Reinforcement of steps



189

Stepladders shall be reinforced at each step by a metal tie rod or
a metal brace.





Metal parts



190

All metal parts of stepladders shall be malleable iron, wrought
iron or steel.




Care and Use of Ladders




Portable ladders



191

Portable ladders shall be inclined so that the base shall not be
more than 1/4 the length of the ladder out from the plumb line of
contact at top, unless the top be securely fastened. Side rails
shall have secure footing and the top shall be rigid and have
ample strength to support the applied load. Wherever possible, the
top of the ladder shall be securely fastened to prevent movement.





Wide ladders



192

Where it is necessary to install a ladder wide enough to permit
traffic in both directions at the same time, a centre rail shall
be provided. One side of the ladder shall be plainly marked "Up"
and the other side "Down". Material shall be increased in size to
take care of increased loading.





Damaged ladders



193

Ladders with broken or missing rungs, or split side rails or with
other defects shall not be used but shall be withdrawn from
service and marked for repair or destruction.





Prohibited ladder forms



194

Ladders made by fastening cleats across a single rail or post
shall not be used, nor shall short ladders be spliced together to
form long sections.





Preventing portable ladders from slipping



195

To prevent portable ladders from slipping, one of the following
methods shall be used:

(a) sharp metal points at feet;
(b) non-slip feet;
(c) sandbags of sufficient weight;
(d) lashing;
(e) any other effective means.




Overhead shaft ladders



196

Ladders for use in oiling overhead shafting shall be equipped to
hook over the shafting.





Extension above landings



197

Portable ladders shall extend at least 2 feet above landings, and
side rails of fixed or permanent ladders shall extend at least 3
feet above landing without rungs.





Clearance back of rungs



198

A continuous clearance space of at least 6 1/2 inches shall be
provided back of rungs of fixed or permanent ladders.





Fastenings of permanent ladders



199

Fastenings of fixed or permanent ladders shall not be more than 10
feet apart.




Stairways, Runways, Walks, Floors, etc.




Slope, risers, landings, etc.



200

Wherever possible, stairways shall be constructed with a slope of
from 30 to 38° from the horizontal with uniform risers between 5
and 8 inches in height and with a minimum tread of 9 1/2 inches.
All landings, treads and stringers shall be of sufficient strength
to sustain safely a live load of not less than 100 pounds per
square foot with a factor of safety of 4.





Handrails



201

All stairways having 4 or more risers shall be equipped with
handrails which shall be kept smooth and free from protruding
nails or splinters. Where the stairway is not built next to a wall
or partition, rails shall be provided on both sides.





Detour guardrails



202

When a stairway ends in direct proximity to dangerous traffic or
other hazards, detour guardrails shall be installed to protect
workmen against contacting such hazards.





Door must not swing over treads



203

No door shall be installed at the entrance to a stairway so that
it is necessary to swing the door over the treads.





Stairs to be kept clean



204

Stairs shall be kept clean and free of material of any kind.





Handrails on edges of open floors, platforms, etc.



205

Standard handrails shall be installed, where practicable, along
the edges of every open sided floor, working platform, runway,
walk or balcony which is 4 feet or more above floor or ground
level, and along the edges of all other platforms or openings
where the safety of workmen is involved.





Handrail specifications



206

Standard handrails shall be not less than 42 inches in height, and
shall be provided with a top rail and an intermediate rail spaced
midway between top rail and floor level. Railings shall be
constructed in a permanent and substantial manner and shall be
smooth and free from protruding nails, bolts and splinters. All
sharp corners shall be rounded. Posts or uprights shall be spaced
not more than 8 feet apart, centre to centre.





Floor openings



207

Floor openings, wherever practicable, shall be protected with
standard handrails and toe boards.





Where danger of falling objects



208

When the work being performed is such that there is a danger of
objects falling into floor openings, the opening between the floor
and handrail shall be enclosed with wire mesh, boards or other
suitable material.





Runway and walk specifications



209

Runways and walks shall be of substantial construction. If
possible, overhead runways shall not be less than 20 inches in
width and when more than 4 feet above grade they shall be equipped
with a standard handrail. Access to these runways shall be in all
cases by means of fixed ladders or stairways. Whenever possible,
thoroughfares through basements shall be avoided.





If passage passes over shaft or conveyor



210

If a passage or runway passes over a shaft or conveyor it shall
have substantial handrails.





If passage passes between strands of belt



211

If a passage or runway passes between the strands of a belt, a
substantial covered way with railed sides or other adequate guard
shall be provided.





Where toe boards required



212

All runways and platforms more than 10 feet high shall be equipped
with toe boards. Runways and platforms of any height, when over
machinery or working areas, shall be equipped with toe boards.




Scaffolds




Strength of scaffolds



213

Scaffolds shall, in particular, receive the most careful attention
as to strength and rigidity and shall be constructed and
maintained in a safe and proper manner, capable of sustaining a
uniformly distributed load of a minimum of 30 pounds per square
foot.





Erection and dismantling



214

Scaffolds shall be erected and taken down by experienced men only.





Lumber



215

All lumber used in scaffolds shall be of selected common or better
grade, according to the grading standards of the B.C. Lumber and
Shingle Manufacturers' Association.





Damaged scaffold



216

Any scaffold damaged or weakened from any cause shall be
immediately repaired, and workmen shall not be allowed to use it
until repairs have been completed.





Employer's duty



217

Every employer shall take steps to ensure that scaffolds to be
used by his workmen are constructed in accordance with the
regulations. This applies whether scaffolds have been erected by
his workmen or not.




First Aid




Supplies and equipment



218

Every employer shall provide and maintain first aid supplies and
equipment in compliance with the "Minimum First Aid Service
Requirements" issued by the Workers' Compensation Board.




Welding and Burning



Generators




Construction, use and markings



219

Acetylene generators shall be of approved construction and shall
not be used at rates producing cubic feet of acetylene per hour in
excess of rates set out by manufacturers of the generators.
Manufacturer's name and address, together with type and number of
the generator, shall be plainly marked on same, as shall also be
the amount of carbide for a single charge.





Operation



220

Generators shall be operated by a responsible workman familiar
with the proper operation and maintenance of this equipment.





Portable generators



221

Portable generators shall not be used in confined spaces or where
ventilation is inadequate. They shall be cleaned and recharged and
gas mixture blown off outside. They shall not be cleaned or
recharged in the vicinity of any open flame, welder's arc or other
source of ignition.





Charged portable generators — limitation on movement



222

When charged with carbide, portable generators shall not be moved
by crane or derrick.





Storage



223

When not in use, portable generators shall not be stored in any
room in which open lights or fires are used unless free of carbide
and thoroughly purged of gas. Storage rooms shall be thoroughly
ventilated.





Restrictions on placement of stationary generators



224

Stationary generators shall not be located in a room where welding
is being done or where an open flame is used. Housing shall be
well ventilated, of fireproof construction. A sign reading
"CALCIUM CARBIDE — DO NOT USE WATER IN CASE OF FIRE" shall be
posted in a conspicuous place.





Stationary generator rooms



225

Lighting for stationary generator rooms shall be from stationary
lights, enclosed in vapour proof covers, with rigid conduit.
Switches and other electrical apparatus shall be located outside
the room. Smoking in generator rooms is prohibited.





Room heating for stationary generators



226

During freezing weather the building for stationary generators
shall be heated by steam heat, hot water or other indirect means.





Repair instructions



227

Whenever repairs are to be made or the generator is to be charged
or carbide is to be removed, the water chamber shall be full
during such operations to avoid the danger of explosive mixtures
of air and gas within the water space and also to prevent dropping
fresh carbide into insufficient water. Previous to making repairs
involving welding, soldering or any hot work or operation liable
to produce a spark, all acetylene shall be expelled by completely
flooding the generator shell with water and disconnecting the
generator from the piping system. The water shall be maintained at
as high a level as work permits. Where necessary to avoid wetting
same, the carbide charge and feed mechanism shall be completely
removed.




Torches and Hose




Regulator valves



228

The regulator valves used on acetylene, oxygen or other gas
cylinders shall be regularly examined and kept in repair by a
competent person.





Use of regulators or automatic reducing valves



229

Regulators or automatic reducing valves shall only be used for the
gas for which they are intended.





Leaking regulators



230

Leaking regulators shall not be used.





Leaking valves



231

A torch with leaking valves shall not be used. Care shall be taken
to keep all valves tight and in good order.





Inspection of hoses



232

All hoses used for burning and welding shall be inspected at
frequent intervals to determine their condition. If the condition
of the hose is in doubt, it shall be submerged in water and an air
pressure 50% above the working pressure applied. If air bubbles
appear or if the hose is found to be in an unsafe condition, it
shall be discarded or be repaired and tested again before it is
used.





Only one gas passage



233

A single hose having more than one gas passage, a wall failure of
which would permit the flow of one gas into the other gas passage,
shall not be used.




Cylinders




Handling of gas cylinders



234

Gas cylinders shall not be handled in slings. When cylinders are
transported on a truck they shall be held securely in position.
Cylinders shall not be dropped or permitted to strike each other
violently.





Safety precautions



235

(1)  Cylinder valves shall be closed when work is finished
and when cylinders are empty. Cylinder valve protection covers
shall be kept in position at all times that the cylinder is not
connected for use.


(2)  Every precaution shall be taken to prevent sparks or
flames from welding or cutting torches coming in contact with
cylinders, regulators and hoses, and all charged gas cylinders
shall be protected against undue absorption of heat from the sun,
forges or open flames.





Section 77 applies



236

Cylinders shall conform to section 77 of these regulations.




Use of Acetylene and Oxygen




Substitution of oxygen for compressed air



237

WARNING — A serious accident may easily result if oxygen is used
as a substitute for compressed air. Never use oxygen in pneumatic
tools, in oil preheating burners, to start internal combustion
engines, to blow out pipelines, to "dust" clothing or work, to
create pressure or for ventilation.




Burning




Protective clothing



238

Suitable goggles and gloves shall be worn by burners. Ragged or
oil soaked clothes shall not be worn.





Ventilation or respirators in case of fumes



239

Materials giving off fumes shall not be burned without sufficient
ventilation, unless proper respirators are worn by all workmen
exposed to fumes.





Overhead burners



240

Every precaution shall be taken to protect workmen where burners
are working above them. This situation shall be avoided whenever
possible.





No oil or grease near oxygen cylinders



241

Oil or grease shall never be permitted to come in contact with
oxygen cylinders, valves, regulators or other fittings. Oxygen
cylinders and apparatus shall not be handled with oily hands or
greasy gloves.





Help for workers in confined spaces



242

Necessary help or supervision shall be provided for burners and
welders when working in a confined or cramped space.




Arc Welding




Equipment and wiring



243

All electric arc welding equipment shall be of an approved type
and wiring shall conform to the
Electrical Safety Act
of the Province of British Columbia and regulations made
thereunder.





Protective screens, helmets and goggles



244

Suitable protecting screens, at least 7 feet high, shall be
installed in machine and welding shops for the protection of
workmen who work or come near the glowing parts of arc welders,
arc furnaces and similar apparatus. Suitable portable screens
shall be placed around the arc when arc welding is carried on in
other locations. Welders and helpers shall be provided with and
wear adequate helmets or goggles when exposed to glare.





Ventilation in confined spaces



245

Adequate ventilation shall be provided whenever welding is carried
on in confined spaces.





Flash protection



246

A welder shall do no welding where other workmen may receive the
flash of the arc unless such workmen are protected by proper
goggles or protective screen is placed around the arc. These
screens shall be provided to welders as part of their equipment.





Hand and arm protection



247

Leather gauntlet gloves shall be worn when welding and, when doing
overhead work, arms shall be protected.





Wire stubs



248

Wire stubs shall not be left lying around but shall be placed in a
receptacle which shall be provided for the purpose.





Eye protection



249

The eyes shall be protected by the use of flip front helmets or by
goggles when chipping or cleaning welds.





Electrode holders



250

Electrode holders shall be made dead or protected against
grounding at all times when not welding.





Welding machines



251

Welding machines shall be shut down at all rest periods, ends of
shifts and when changing the lines to new locations.





Starting and stopping machines



252

Whenever machines are not started or stopped by operators, they
shall be advised before same is done.




Woodworking Machinery



Plant Layout




Machinery to be secured to floors or benches



253

Woodworking machinery shall be firmly secured to substantial
floors or foundations. Small units shall be secured to benches,
tables or stands of adequate strength, and so designed as to
prevent overturning or unintentional movement. This regulation
does not apply to portable hand tools.





Traffic aisles



254

Aisles for one way traffic shall be not less than the width of the
widest vehicles or load plus 3 feet. For 2 way traffic the minimum
width of aisles shall be not less than twice the width of the
widest vehicle or load plus 3 feet. Lines shall be painted on the
floor or some similar method be employed to mark aisleways.





Working space



255

Machines shall be so located that there will be sufficient space
in which to handle material with the least possible interference
from or to workmen or machines. Machines shall be so placed that
it will be unnecessary for any one to stand in or so near an aisle
as to be liable to hazard.





Clearances around machines



256

In order for each operator to have sufficient space in which to
handle the material with the least possible interference from or
to other workmen or machines, the following conditions shall be
maintained:


(a)
Rip and crosscut bench or table saws
— The minimum distance or clearance on each working side of the
saw table shall be equal to 3 feet more than the longest material
handled.


(b)
Band saws
— The minimum distance or clearance on 3 sides of the table shall
be equal to a circle with the point of operation of the saw blade
as a centre and a radius equal to twice the diameter of the band
wheels.


(c)
Jointers
— The minimum distance or clearance shall be at least 3 feet
greater than the length of the longest material worked on the
machine.


(d)
Shapers
— The minimum distance or clearance shall be at least 3 feet
greater than the longest dimension of the material worked on the
machine. It is vitally important to both safety and production to
protect shaper operators from interference. To this end, shaper
machines shall be so set that the operator faces the aisle and is
protected at the back by a partition or railing.





Exhaust system



257

Planers, stickers, shapers, sanders and surfacers shall be
connected with an adequate exhaust system to take away shavings
and dust.




Guards




Installation and removal



258

Guards shall be installed wherever possible and their use
enforced. If special operations require the removal of the guard,
it shall be immediately replaced upon the completion of the work
which required its removal. No workman shall be permitted to
remove a guard or to operate the machine without the guard except
with the consent of the foreman in each specific instance.





Metal guards — thickness



259

When guards are constructed of sheet metal, the material used
shall be not less than 1/16 inch in thickness, and if cast iron is
used it shall be not less than 3/16 inch in thickness.





Where exhaust system used



260

Where an exhaust system is used, the guard shall form part or all
of the exhaust hood and shall be constructed of metal of a
thickness not less than the above.





Hand fed planers and jointers — cylindrical cutting head



261

Each hand fed planer and jointer with horizontal head shall be
equipped with a cylindrical cutting head.





Hand fed jointers — automatic guard



262

Each hand fed jointer with a horizontal cutting head shall have an
automatic guard which will cover all the section of the head on
the working side of the fence or gauge, and a guard which covers
the head back of the fence.





Tenoning machines



263

Each tenoning machine shall have all cutting heads and saws, if
used, covered by guards. These guards shall cover at least the
unused part of the periphery of the cutting head.





Hand fed tenoning machines



264

Hand fed tenoning machines shall be provided with a clamping or
"hold down" device to help the operator to hold the material being
cut.





Boring bits



265

Boring bits shall be provided with a guard that will enclose all
portions of the bit and chuck above the material being worked.





Universal joints



266

Universal joints on spindles of boring machines shall be
completely enclosed to prevent injury to the operator.





Chain mortisers



267

On chain mortisers the top of the cutting chain and driving
mechanism shall be enclosed.





Cutting heads — wood shaper, hand fed panel raiser, etc



268

The cutting heads of each wood shaper, hand fed panel raiser or
other similar machines not automatically fed shall be enclosed
with a cage or adjustable guard, so designed as to keep the
operator's hands away from the cutting edge. The diameter of
circular shaper guards shall be not less than the greatest
diameter of the cutter. Cylindrical heads shall be used wherever
the nature of the work will permit. Templates, jigs and fixtures
which will remove the operator's hands from the point of operation
shall be used wherever the nature of the work will permit.





Cutting heads — planing, moulding, etc. machines



269

Each planing, moulding, sticking and matching machine shall have
all cutting heads and saws, if used, covered by metal guards.





Cutting heads — lathes



270

Each profile and swing head lathe shall have all cutting heads
covered by a metal guard.





Drum sanding machine



271

Each drum sanding machine shall have an exhaust hood so arranged
as to enclose the revolving drum, except such portion of the drum
above the table, if table is used, as may be necessary for the
application of the material to be finished.





Belt sanding machine



272

Each belt sanding machine shall have both pulleys enclosed in such
a manner as to guard the points where the sanding belt runs onto
the pulleys. The unused run of the sanding belt shall be enclosed.





Disk sanding machine



273

Each disk sanding machine shall have the exhaust hood or other
guard, if no exhaust system is required, so arranged as to enclose
the revolving disk, except such portion of the disk above the
table, if table is used, as may be necessary for the application
of the material to be finished.





Veneer clippers



274

Veneer clippers shall have automatic feed or shall be provided
with a guard which will make it impossible to place a finger or
fingers under the knife while feeding stock. The rear of each
clipper shall be guarded to prevent any portion of the hand being
placed under the knife while removing clipped stock.





Feed rolls



275

All feed rolls shall be protected with a semicylindrical guard to
prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the
in-running rolls at any point. The guard shall be constructed of
heavy material, preferably metal, and firmly secured to the frame
carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any thickness
of stock. The bottom of the guard should come down to within 3/8
inch of a plane formed by the bottom or contact face of the feed
roll where it touches the stock.




Operation




Maintenance of saws



276

Dull, badly set, improperly filed or improperly tensioned saws
shall be immediately removed from service as soon as they begin to
cause the material to stick, jam or kick back when it is fed to
the saw at normal speed. Saws to which gum has adhered on the
sides shall be immediately cleaned.





Knives and cutting heads



277

All knives and cutting heads of woodworking machines shall be kept
sharp, properly adjusted and firmly secured. Where 2 or more
knives are used in one head they shall be properly balanced.





Bearings



278

Bearings shall be kept free from lost motion and shall be well
lubricated.





Arbors of circular saws



279

Arbors of all circular saws shall be free from play.





Push sticks



280

Push sticks shall be used for pushing stock through rip saws and
jointers not equipped with self feeding devices.





Operating treadles



281

Each operating treadle shall be covered by an inverted U-shaped
metal guard, fastened to the floor, of adequate size to prevent
tripping.





Kick back prevention



282

It is important in the location of a rip saw to be sure that no
workman is regularly working in line with the saw where he might
be hit by material in case of a kick back. If it is necessary to
locate a machine in such a position, a heavy metal or plank
barricade shall be erected to protect the workman.





Cutting narrow strips on circular rip saws



283

In order to use the hoodguard effectively on circular rip saws
when cutting narrow strips, a fillister piece shall be used. This
shall be made of wood about 2 inches wide. It shall be about 3/4
inch thick or slightly thinner than the thickness of the material
being cut. It shall be provided with cleats or brackets at the
ends so that it will either fit down over the front and back ends
of table or can be quickly attached to the gauge or fence.





Jigs and fixtures



284

Special consideration shall be given to the use of jigs or
fixtures when cutting irregular pieces or oblique angles. In a
production shop which uses jigs and fixtures, definite space
either at the saw or in a storeroom shall be provided for storing
these fixtures.





Glue



285

Rubber gloves, other necessary protective equipment and proper
washing facilities with non-caustic soap shall be provided and
used by all workmen handling glue. Glue spreaders shall be
enclosed on the in-running side, leaving only sufficient space to
permit the stock to enter the rolls.




Saws




Speed



286

Speed of saws shall not exceed that recommended by the
manufacturers.




Circular Saws




Guards and hoods



287

(1)  For all circular saws where conditions are such that
there is a possibility of contact with the portion of the saw
either beneath or behind the table, that portion of the saw shall
be covered with a guard that shall be so arranged as to prevent
accidental contact with the saw.


(2)  The hood and mounting shall be so arranged that the hood
will automatically adjust itself to the thickness of and remain in
contact with the material being cut, but it shall not offer any
considerable resistance to insertion of material to saw or of
passage of material being sawed. The hood shall be made of
adequate strength to resist blows and strains incidental to
reasonable operation, adjusting and handling, and shall be so
designed as to protect the operator from flying splinters and
broken saw teeth. The hood shall be so made that the operator can
see his line of cut when he is in proper position to feed the saw.


(3)  The hood shall be so mounted to ensure its operation to
be positive, reliable and in true alignment with the saw; and the
mounting shall be adequate in strength to resist any reasonable
side thrust or other forces tending to throw it out of line.





Kick back prevention



288

Whenever possible, each circular saw shall be provided with one or
more non-kick back fingers or dogs mounted on the hood and so
located as to oppose the thrust or tendency of the saw to pick up
the material or to throw it back toward the operator. They shall
be designed to provide adequate holding power for all thicknesses
of materials being cut.





Guards or hoods on feed rolls



289

Feed rolls shall be guarded by a hood or semicylindrical guard to
prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the
in-running rolls at any point. The guard shall be fastened to the
frame carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any
thickness of stock.





Spreader



290

(1)  Each hand fed circular rip saw shall be furnished with a
spreader to prevent material from squeezing the saw or being
thrown back on the operator. The spreader will be made of saw
steel or tool steel, or its equivalent, that has been hardened,
tempered and ground to gauge so that it is thinner than the saw
kerf but thicker than the saw blade. It shall be of sufficient
width to provide adequate stiffness or rigidity to resist any
reasonable side thrust or blow tending to bend or throw it out of
position. The spreader will be so attached as to remain in true
alignment with the saw even when either the saw or table is tilted
and shall be so placed that there is not more than 1/2 inch space
between the spreader and the back of the saw when the largest saw
is mounted in the machine.


(2)  The provision of a spreader in connection with grooving,
dadoing or rabbetting is not required. On the completion of such
operations, the spreader shall be immediately replaced.




Band Saws




Band saws



291

(1)  All portions of the saw blade of band saws and band
resaws shall be enclosed or guarded, except the working side of
the blade between the guide rolls and the table. Band saw wheels
shall be fully encased.


(2)  The outside periphery of the enclosure shall be solid.
The front and back of band wheels shall be either enclosed by
solid material or by wire mesh or perforated metal. Such mesh or
perforated metal shall be not less than 0.037 inch (U.S. Gauge No.
20) and the opening shall be not greater than 3/8 inch. Solid
material used for this purpose shall be of an equivalent strength
and firmness.


(3)  The guard for the portion of the blade between the
sliding guide and the upper saw wheel guard shall either enclose
the saw blade or protect the saw at the front and both sides. This
portion of the guard shall be self adjusting to raise and lower
with the guide. The upper wheel guard shall be made to conform to
the travel of the saw on the wheel and the top member of the guard
shall have at least a 2 inch clearance outside the saw and be
lined with smooth material, preferably metal.




Cutoff Saws




Return device



292

Each swing cutoff saw shall be provided with an effective device
to return the saw automatically to the back of the table when
released at any point of its travel. Such device shall not depend
for its proper functioning upon any fibre rope, cord or spring. If
there is a counterweight, the bolts supporting the bar and
counterweight shall be provided with cotter pins; and the
counterweight shall be prevented from dropping by either a bolt
passing through both the bar and counterweight, or a bolt put
through the extreme end of the bar, or, where the counterweight
does not encircle the bar, a safety chain attached to it.





Limit chains



293

Each swing saw shall be provided with limit chains or other
equally effective device to prevent the saw from swinging beyond
the front or back edges of the table, or beyond a forward position
where the gullets of the lowest saw teeth will rise above the
table top.





Rebound prevention



294

When considered necessary, a latch shall be provided to catch and
retain the saw at the rear of the table to prevent its rebounding.





Operator position



295

Operators of swing cutoff saws shall take such a position that no
part of their body is in line with the saw. The operating handle
shall be on the side of the saw from which the material is fed and
shall be operated by the hand closest to the saw.





Guard extension



296

Guards protecting belt drives of swing saws shall extend 1/2 inch
below the saw mandrel pulley.





Jump saw — hood



297

Inverted swing cutoff (jump) saws shall be provided with a hood
that will cover the part of the saw that protrudes above the
material being cut.





Jump saw — guard and stop



298

Jump saws shall be guarded below the top of the roll and a stop
shall be provided to prevent any timber being thrown off the live
roll case and on to the carriage track.





Jump saw — safety sign and safeguard



299

A conspicuous safety sign and an approved safeguard shall be
placed over the jump saw to prevent anyone stepping over the saw.




Trimmer Saws




Guards



300

A guard shall be provided in front of all trimmer saws unless the
method of control is such that no workman is required to stand in
direct line with any saw while it is cutting, and in the case of
overhead trimmers, where the duties of workmen require them to
stand in the rear of the trimmer table, a guard shall be provided
in the rear of the saw.





Worn down shingle saws



301

Shingle saws used as trimmer saws shall be discarded when they are
worn down so that there is less than one inch between gullet and
the outside rows of collar holes.




Portable Saws




Portable power driven saws



302

All portable power driven saws shall be equipped with guards which
will automatically adjust themselves to the work when in use, so
that none of the teeth are exposed to contact above the work; and
when withdrawn from the work the guard shall completely cover the
saw to the depth of the teeth.





Fuel wood saws



303

Fuel wood saws shall be provided with approved safeguards and
operated in accordance with the principles governing the operation
of similar saws as outlined in these regulations.





Gasoline drag saws



304

Gasoline drag saws shall be equipped with a clutch, shall be kept
in good operating condition, and have gears and frictions guarded.




Wobble Saws




No wedges between saw disk and collar



305

The practice of inserting wedges between the saw disk and the
collar to form what is commonly known as a "wobble saw" shall not
be permitted.




Cracks in Saws




Band saw — crack depth less than 1/10 width of saw



306

Any band saw found to have developed a crack, the depth of which
is not greater than 1/10 the width of the saw, shall be
discontinued from service unless development of the crack is
arrested by centre punching or other effective means.





Band saw — crack depth greater than 1/10 width of saw



307

Any band saw found to have developed a crack, the depth of which
is greater than 1/10 the width of the saw, shall be discarded
unless the width is so reduced as to eliminate the crack or unless
the cracked section is replaced. Butt welding of band saws in
place of the present method of brazing will not be acceptable
unless done by a recognized specialist approved by the ministry.





Circular saw — crack more than 1/2 inch deep



308

Any circular saw found to have developed a crack more than 1/2
inch deep shall be discontinued from service unless development of
the crack is arrested by centre punching or drilling at the inner
end of the crack, or by other effective and reliable means, and
the tension of the saw corrected, or unless the diameter is so
reduced as to eliminate the crack.





Circular saw — crack more than 2 inches deep



309

Any circular saw that is found to have developed a crack more than
2 inches deep shall be discarded unless the diameter is so reduced
as to eliminate the crack and the tension is corrected.





Welding of cracks



310

Unless welding of cracks is done by a person recognized as a
specialist in such work, welding will not be considered as an
effective means of arresting cracks. Welding of cracks deeper than
10% of diameter will not be allowed.




Laundries




Guarding of shafts, pulleys, belts and gears



311

All shafts, pulleys, belts and gears shall be guarded in
accordance with the General Regulations.





Ventilation



312

All laundry washrooms and rooms in which flat work ironers are
operated shall be provided with adequate means of ventilation
which will clear such rooms of excessive heat or steam.





Floors



313

The floors of all rooms where washing operations are carried on
shall be so drained that there is no measurable depth of water
where workmen must stand while working.





Washers



314

Washers shall be provided with a device that will prevent the
inside barrel from turning while the outside drum door is open.





Extractors



315

Every extractor shall be provided with a device that will prevent
power being applied before the lid or cover is closed.





Tumblers



316

Tumblers shall be provided with a device so arranged in connection
with the opening in the tumbling barrel and the driving mechanism
as to prevent the barrel from moving while the door is open. The
barrel shall be enclosed or guarded to prevent contact.





Flat work ironers — feed rolls



317

Feed rolls of flat work ironers shall be provided with a bar
across the front so arranged that the striking of the bar by the
hand of the operator will stop the machine, or the rolls shall be
provided with a fixed rod that will prevent the hands entering the
rolls.





Flat work ironers — pressure rolls



318

Pressure rolls of flat work ironers shall be covered, guarded or
so located that a workman cannot reach into them.





Press type ironers



319

Press type ironers shall be provided with an automatic device
which will prevent the application of injurious pressure if the
fingers of the operator are between the bed and the pressure head,
or a 2 handed device shall be provided which will require removal
of both hands of the operator from the danger zone at the time of
tripping the machine.





Roller type body ironers



320

The rolls of roller type body ironers shall be provided with a
fixed bar across the front which will prevent the hands from
entering the rolls. The hot roll shall be covered in such a way
that the operator cannot come in contact with it.





Steam pipes



321

All steam pipes, where exposed to contact, shall be covered to
within 7 feet from the floor.




Painting




Scaffolds, swinging, staging, rigging, etc



322

All scaffolds, swinging, staging, rigging, etc., shall conform to
the General Regulations.





Protective clothing



323

Suitable clothing shall be worn to protect painters from the
paint.





Food



324

Lunches shall not be kept with working clothes, and food shall not
be brought within 25 feet of spray painting.





Ventilation



325

Ventilation shall be provided while painting is carried on in a
confined space.





Respirators



326

Suitable respirators shall be provided by employers and worn by
workmen while spray painting.





Protective cream; washing facilities



327

Protective cream shall be available to all painters, and adequate
washing facilities shall be provided.





Air contamination



328

Painters shall not work where the paint will contaminate the air
breathed by other workmen.





Protection from acid



329

When acid is used in building washing, goggles, rubber gloves,
rubber suits or other suitable protective equipment shall be worn
by the building washer.





Some paints must not be sprayed



330

Paints which contain materials injurious to exposed parts of a
workman's body shall not be applied by spray gun.






1.


Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.





[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 271]





