




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Plant Protection Act


North American Gypsy Moth Eradication (North Delta and Mount Douglas)
Regulation

B.C. Reg. 132/2004





Regulation BEFORE repealed by 132/2004, effective June 21, 2004.





B.C. Reg. 132/2004

O.C. 277/2004


Deposited March 26, 2004






Plant Protection Act



North American Gypsy Moth Eradication (North Delta and Mount
Douglas) Regulation






Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"application"
means an application of Btk for the control of the North American
Gypsy Moth;


"Btk"
means the bacterial insecticide
Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki
in the form of Foray 48B or a product equivalent to Foray 48B.





Where the applications are to be made



2

Applications in the manner specified in this regulation are to be
made within the spray zones potentially infested with North
American Gypsy Moth set out in the Schedules to this regulation.





Restrictions on the time of applications



3

(1)  Applications may be made only on or between April 15 and
June 20, 2004.


(2)  Aerial applications may be made only from sunrise to
7:30 a.m.





Rate of application



4

(1)  No single application may be made at a rate that exceeds
4 litres of product per hectare.


(2)  No more than 3 applications at about 10 day intervals
may be made to any spray zone.





Product requirements



5

All requirements specified on the registered label for the Btk
must be met in making any application.





Further conditions for conducting an application



6

(1)  Applications must be conducted


(a) under a Pest Control Service Licence issued under the
Pesticide Control Act Regulation, and


(b) by certified pesticide applicators employed or retained
by or on behalf of the government.


(2)  Applications must not take place if wind speeds are
greater than 8 km/hr.


(3)  Pilots must be in continuous radio contact with
supervisory ground-based personnel during aerial applications.





Notification



7

(1)  Written notification of an application must be provided
to the following at least 24 hours before the application within
the spray zone set out in Schedule 1
[North Delta]
:


(a) the medical health officers for the Fraser Health
Authority;


(b) the principals of all schools within the spray zone and
the overspray zone;


(c) the owners or managers of any licensed care facilities
within the spray zone and the overspray zone, such as hospitals,
medical clinics, day care facilities, extended care facilities or
facilities that house or care for persons that have compromised
immune systems;


(d) the corporate officer for the Corporation of Delta;


(e) the administrator appointed under the
Pesticide Control Act
;


(f) the news directors of a least 2 AM radio stations, 2 FM
radio stations and 2 television stations that have regularly
scheduled news broadcasts to people in the area where the
application will take place.


(2)  Written notification of an application must be provided
to the following at least 24 hours before the application within
the spray zone set out in Schedule 2
[Mount Douglas]
:


(a) the medical health officers for the Vancouver Island
Health Authority;


(b) the principals of all schools within the spray zone and
the overspray zone;


(c) the owners or managers of any licensed care facilities
within the spray zone and the overspray zone, such as hospitals,
medical clinics, day care facilities, extended care facilities or
facilities that house or care for persons that have compromised
immune systems;


(d) the corporate officer for the District of Saanich;


(e) the manager responsible for Mount Douglas Park;


(f) the administrator appointed under the
Pesticide Control Act
;


(g) the news directors of a least 2 AM radio stations, 2 FM
radio stations and 2 television stations that have regularly
scheduled news broadcasts to people in the area where the
application will take place.


(3)  Notification under subsections (1) and (2) must include
details on the time and location of the application.




Schedules 1 and 2



Exempt from publication under section 6 of the Regulations Act.

These Schedules may be obtained by contacting

the Forest Practices Branch, Ministry of Forests, at (250)387-8742
or by

visiting the following website:
www.for.gov.bc.ca/hfp/gypsymoth/index.htm



Note:
this regulation is repealed effective June 21, 2004.


[Provisions of the
Plant Protection Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 365, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 8]





