




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Act


Part VI: Visual Acuity, Colour Perception and Hearing of Railway
Employees Regulations

B.C. Reg. 457/59





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 457/59


O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003

1








Railway Act



Part VI: Visual Acuity, Colour Perception and Hearing of Railway
Employees Regulations





Visual Acuity




Qualification as an examiner



1

Each person selected to make examinations must first pass the
examination under an oculist or optometrist designated by the
company, such oculist or optometrist then to instruct candidate on
the use of the instruments requisite for such examination and
certify to candidate's qualifications as an examiner.





Equipment for examinations



2

Each examiner shall be provided with


(a) a set of Snellens test types, with at least 3 cards of
each size of letters shown in different combinations (a single
line on each card) for testing acuteness of vision,


(b) an Association of American Railroads standard reading
card for testing near vision,


(c) a Holmgren or Thompson colour selection test, Pseudo
Isochromatic Chart and instructions for use of same,


(d) a "Williams" lantern, or one similarly constructed, and
instructions for use of same,


(e) a card or shade for testing each eye separately,


(f) a trial frame, with one pair of plus 2 diopter lenses,
one pair of plus one diopter lenses, and one pair of plane lenses,
and one opaque disk, and

(g) examination forms and certificates.




Place for examinations



3

Examinations shall be conducted in a well lighted room or car in
which a distance of 20 feet can be measured from test type, or
face of lantern, to candidate. Shades or curtains shall be
provided in order to darken room or car for lantern test.





Testing instrument



3.1

The Keystone Visual Survey Telebinocular Model No. VS1678
instrument may be used to test acuteness of vision of the
employees on city street cars of the British Columbia Electric
Railway Company Limited.





Use of reading test card



4

The test type should be in good light, the bottom of the card
about on a level with the eye. Place the candidate 20 feet from
the card, and ask him to read the type with both eyes open, then
cover one of his eyes with a card or shade held firmly against the
nose, taking care not to let it press against the eyeball, and
instruct him to read with the other eye such type as may be
indicated. Each eye shall be tested separately.





Test standard



5

(1)  Examiners are reminded that the normal eye should read
the 20 foot (or 6 metre) letters at 20 feet, in which case the
visual power should be expressed by the fraction 20/20. Should a
candidate be unable to read the 20 foot letters at 20 feet, but be
able to read the 30 foot letters, the result should be indicated
by the fraction 20/30. If he can only read the 40 foot letters,
record should be 20/40, etc.


(2)  Candidate must be able to read the test print in
paragraph 2 of the standard reading card at a distance of from 14
to 18 inches to pass the near vision test. Candidates, except
applicants under Classes A, B and C, may use glasses for this
test. Further tests should be made by having the candidate read
written train orders.





Definitions and private testing



6

(1)  In testing vision, colour perception and hearing, only
those concerned in such test, other than the examiner and
candidate, shall be permitted to be present.


(2)  Where the word
"applicant"
is used in these regulations, it applies to a person who is
subject to the "Entrance to Service" requirements.


(3)  Where the word
"candidate"
is used, it applies to anyone taking examination, including those
referred to as "applicants".





Examination results and records



7

(1)  The result of each examination must be shown on a
prescribed form, a record to be preserved for reference by the
examiner, and copies as required to be forwarded to officers
concerned for inspection, record and file.


(2)  Officers concerned must keep proper check, to ensure
re-examination of all employees when due, must see that all
employees who should be examined by an oculist or optometrist
under the regulations are required to take such examinations
promptly, and that glasses provided are approved by those
designated under section 13.


(3)  Examiners will, upon request of candidate, issue to each
person who passes a satisfactory examination a certificate to that
effect, and will, if desired, furnish employees who fail to pass a
written statement of their rating and cause of failure.


(4)  Local officers must report to the (

each railway to fill in officer to whom report shall be made

) all cases wherein an employee appears to be disqualified, giving
full information as to result of examination.





Use of glasses for testing



8

All applicants for entrance to service under the standards
specified, except for Classes E and F, must take such examination
without the use of glasses for distant vision.





Wearing of glasses on duty — distant vision



9

When the distant vision of an employee can be improved appreciably
by the aid of glasses, he must wear them while on duty.





Testing with and use on duty of glasses



10

An employee who requires glasses to bring distant vision up to
standard specified must wear them while on duty and must carry an
extra pair which will bring his vision up to standard specified,
and will be examined with each pair.





Forms of glasses



11

All employees, while on duty, excepting those indoors, who are
required to wear glasses for distant vision, must use the rimmed
spectacle or goggle form, and those indoors should preferably use
the rimmed spectacle form. This section applies to new glasses and
replacements.





Goggles and safety spectacles



12

Automobile goggles, fitted with glass which will not injuriously
affect either acuteness of vision or colour perception, may be
used by employees in engine or freight train service for the
protection of the eyes.


The use of authorized safety spectacles or goggles which will
afford protection against flying particles, glare or both, and
which will not affect acuteness of vision or colour perception, is
recommended.





Approval of glasses



13

Glasses required to bring either near or distant vision up to
standards specified must be approved by the oculist, optometrist
or examiner designated by the company.





Abnormal eyes



14

Applicants having a squint, or who are cross-eyed or otherwise not
normal eyed, shall not be accepted. Examiners who suspect a case
of double vision should use some simple test to determine its
presence.





Failure to pass acuity standard



15

An employee who fails to pass acuity standard specified will not
be disqualified from service without an examination by an oculist
designated by the company. An employee failing to pass indoor
tests for acuteness of vision shall, upon request, be examined by
a committee of 2, one of whom will be appointed by the general
manager or other designated officer of the company and the other
by the general chairman concerned. This committee will give due
consideration to borderline cases respecting visual acuity and
recommend the service, if available, to which the employee may be
assigned.





Employees applying for transfer



16

When promotion standard is not specified, an employee applying for
transfer from one kind of service to another, or being promoted,
must pass entrance examinations of class he desires to enter.

Exceptions:

(a) those who have been injured in service, or who have been
in continuous service for at least 2 years, may be transferred to
positions of switch tenders and occupations under Class F;


(b) those who have been transferred from one position to
another under Class E, upon passing the respective re-examination
standards.





Reversion from Class D to Class C



17

Employees who revert from Class D to Class C by direction or
consent of the company will be re-examined under Class D standard.





Standard for entrance to Classes A and C



18

Applicants for entrance to service in Classes A and C will undergo
additional test to ascertain if far sighted to the extent of 2
diopters. Examiners will use combinations in trial frames
representing plane and convex lenses, varying the tests so that
the candidate's former experience of knowledge obtained from
others may be valueless. If an applicant reads without difficulty
the 20 foot letters at 20 feet through convex lenses of 2D he will
not be considered satisfactory.




Colour Perception




Colour perception testing



19

Examiner shall examine the colour perception of each eye
separately, using such equipment and standards of tests as are
approved. These shall be made by a lantern designed for this
purpose, by the Holmgren or Thompson Worsteds or the Pseudo
Isochromatic method. The latter shall consist of 18 plates in book
form as in effect at date of this order. Defective red-green
vision shall be indicated when incorrect responses are given to 5
or more plates. Candidates upon re-examination or for promotion
will not be disqualified if they pass any 2 of these tests.





Limitation on employment if colour perception defective



20

(1)  An applicant who has defective colour perception shall
not be accepted into service in any of the classes specified in
the Standards of Visual Acuity.


(2)  An employee who has defective colour perception shall
not be retained in any of the classes specified in the Standards
of Visual Acuity except in positions to be designated by the
company where he will not be required to use or determine the
colour of signals.





No disqualification without examination by oculist



21

No employees shall be disqualified from service by reason of
defective colour sense without an examination by an oculist
designated by the company.




Hearing




Hearing test



22

In examination of hearing (which shall be with human voice) each
ear shall be tested separately and the candidate should not see
the movement of the examiner's lips.





Hearing standard



23

An applicant for entrance to service must be able to hear and
repeat an ordinary conversation, or names and numbers, spoken in a
conversational tone, at a distance of 20 feet, in which case the
hearing shall be expressed by the fraction 20/20. When
conversation can be heard at only 10 feet, the hearing should be
expressed by the fraction 10/20. If indicated, a test of hearing
by the use of the audiometer may be carried out.





Limitation on employment if hearing defective



24

Employees will not be retained in any of the classes specified if
hearing is less than 15/20 in one ear and 5/20 in the other, or
less than 10/20 in each ear, except in positions to be designated
by the company, where the defect will not prevent the proper and
safe performance of their duties.




Re-examination of Employees




Re-examination of employees



25

Employees included in the Standards of Visual Acuity and Hearing
must be re-examined as follows:


(a) all classes as nearly as possible within 2 years after
the last previous examination;


(b) Class A employees who have less than 20/40 vision in
either eye with glasses, Class C employees who have less than
20/50 vision in either eye with glasses, and all employees who
have less than 20/70 vision in either eye with glasses must be
examined annually. Any employee may be re-examined at such periods
as may be designated by the company's chief medical officer or
chief visual examiner;


(c) after any accident in which they are concerned which may
have been caused by defective vision, colour sense or hearing;


(d) after any serious accident or illness, or severe
inflammation of the eye or eyelid;


(e) before promotion. This does not mean that a freight
conductor should be examined previous to his appointment as
passenger conductor, or an engineman in freight service previous
to appointment in passenger service, but that freight brakemen
shall be examined before being promoted to freight conductor, and
firemen being promoted to enginemen;


(f) all classes to be re-examined for hearing as nearly as
possible within 2 years time after the last previous examination,
or more frequently if deemed necessary by the company's chief
medical officer or chief visual examiner.





Field testing



26

(1)  Employees in Classes A and B who fail to qualify after
having been examined by a company oculist as provided shall, upon
request, be given an outside or field test, using standard
operating signals as may be agreed by the committee provided for
in these regulations.


(2)  In making the tests, candidates shall approach the
signals from a point where they are unable to see them, and not be
credited with being able to read signals unless they can promptly
call changes as made in position of arms and colour of lights.


(3)  The tests with and without glasses shall be made at
distances varying from 5 000 to 200 feet. These tests should be
with each eye separately and also with combined vision.


(4)  The committee shall record the different distances at
which the employee being examined can promptly see the signals,
and shall forward this information, together with their
recommendations as to the service to which he may be assigned, to
the general superintendent.




Standards of Visual Acuity


Class A



Enginemen, Motormen, Firemen, Motormen's Helpers, Road Service



Entrance to Service: Not less than 20/20 in each eye tested
separately without glasses. Must not accept a plus 2D lens nor use
glasses for near vision.


Promotion: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided there
is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/40 in the other eye, with
or without glasses.


Re-examination: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided
there is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/50 in the other eye,
with or without glasses.


Class B

[en. B.C. Reg. 383/94 (eff. May 10/79*).]


Enginemen, Motormen, Firemen, Outside Hostlers, Motormen's
Helpers,

Yard or other Service designated by the Company

or the Chief Inspecting Engineer



Note 1: The term
"outside hostlers"
applies to hostlers handling engines between passenger stations and
roundhouses or yards or on main tracks.


Note 2: Applicants for special industrial railroad service to be
designated by the Chief Inspecting Engineer may enter service under
the promotion standard.

Entrance to Service: Same standard as for Class A.
Promotion: Same standard as for Class A.

Re-examination: 20/30 in one eye, regardless of vision in the other,
with or without glasses.



* See B.C. Reg. 411/94, B.C. Gazette Part II, November 22, 1994
issue, p. 561.



Class C

[en. B.C. Reg. 383/94 (eff. May 10/79*).]


Brakemen in Passenger, Freight or Yard Service, Switchmen, Head
Switchman, Yard Helpers, Switch Tenders or other Service
designated by the Company or the Chief Inspecting Engineer



Note: Applicants for special industrial railroad service to be
designated by the Chief Inspecting Engineer may enter service under
the promotion standard.


Entrance to Service: Not less than 20/20 in each eye tested
separately without glasses. Must not accept a plus 2D lens, nor use
glasses for near vision.


Promotion: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided there
is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/40 in the other, with or
without glasses. (From Class C to Class D.)


Re-examination: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided
there is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/50 in the other, with
or without glasses, or 20/20 in one eye, regardless of vision in the
other, with or without glasses.



* See B.C. Reg. 411/94, B.C. Gazette Part II, November 22, 1994
issue, p. 561.



Class D



Conductors in Passenger, Freight or Yard Service, Yardmasters,

Yard Foremen, Train Baggagemen



Entrance to Service: Not less than 20/30 in each eye without
glasses.


Re-examination: Not less than 20/40 in one eye and not less than
20/50 in the other eye, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one eye
and not less than 20/70 in the other eye, with or without glasses;
or 20/20 in one eye, regardless of vision in the other, with or
without glasses.


Class E



Train Dispatchers whose Duties Require the Necessary Standard of
Visual Acuity and Colour Perception, Station Agents and Telegraph
and Telephone Operators Concerned with the Movement of Trains,
Signal Foremen and Maintainers, Signalmen, Bridge and Track
Foremen, Drawbridge Tenders, Car Inspectors.



Entrance to Service: Not less than 20/30 in one eye and not less
than 20/40 in the other eye, with or without glasses.


Re-examination: Not less than 20/40 in one eye and not less than
20/70 in the other eye, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one
eye, regardless of vision in the other eye, with or without glasses.


Class F


Crossing Flagmen, Watchmen, Gatemen


Entrance to Service: Not less than 20/40 in each eye, with or
without glasses.


Re-examination: Not less than 20/50 in one eye and not less than
20/70 in the other, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one eye,
regardless of vision in the other, with or without glasses.


Class G



Employees operating snow plough, spreader or other railway
maintenance equipment moving on track, coupled ahead of
locomotive, shall be examined under regulations and standard
specified for re-examination Class A.





Class

Without Glasses
With Glasses


Class A: Enginemen, road service

By day, sunlight

Or by day if cloudy with clear atmosphere

By night


200, 400 and 2 000 ft

200, 500 and 2 000 ft

200, 400 and 2 000 ft


200, 400 and 5 000 ft

200, 400 and 4 000 ft

200, 400 and 4 000 ft



Class B: Enginemen, yard service
By day or night
200, 400 and 800 ft
200, 400 and 2 000 ft







1.


Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.





[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 271]





