




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Financial Institutions Act

Insurer Exemption Regulation
B.C. Reg. 134/97





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 597/2004, effective December
31, 2004.





B.C. Reg. 134/97

O.C. 449/97


Deposited April 11, 1997






Financial Institutions Act


Insurer Exemption Regulation




Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Financial Institutions Act
;


"contract"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance Act
;


"general insurer"
means an insurer whose business authorization authorizes the
insurer to carry on one or more classes of general insurance
business.





Communication of claims history information



2

Despite section 95 (1) of the Act, a financial institution may
communicate information that it would not otherwise, under that
section, be entitled to communicate, if


(a) the financial institution is a general insurer,


(b) the information relates to the claims, if any, made by
the customer under any contract of general insurance,


(c) the information is communicated to another general
insurer, to an insurance agent or, subject to section 3, to


(i)  the Insurance Crime Prevention Bureau, or


(ii)  IAO Automated Information Services Incorporated, and


(d) the communication of the information is consented to by
the customer after the purpose for the communication of the
information has been disclosed to the customer.





Adoption of model code



3

A financial institution must not communicate information referred
to in section 2 to the Insurance Crime Prevention Bureau or to IAO
Automated Information Services Incorporated unless the Insurance
Crime Prevention Bureau or IAO Automated Information Services
Incorporated, as the case may be, has adopted and is subject to
the Canadian Standards Association model code for the protection
of personal information as that code may be amended from time to
time.



[Provisions of the
Financial Institutions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 289]





