




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Health Professions Act



Dental Technicians Regulation


B.C. Reg. 278/2008







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 32/2020, effective February 24, 2020.





B.C. Reg. 278/2008


M238/2008



Deposited October 15, 2008


effective October 17, 2008







Health Professions Act




Dental Technicians Regulation










Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the

Health Professions Act

;



"dentist"

means a person authorized under the

Dentists Act

to practise dentistry;



"denturist"

means a person authorized under the Act to practise denturism;



"prescription"

means a document, signed and dated by a dentist or medical practitioner, that directs a dental technician to perform a service that a dental technician is permitted, by the dental technician's certificate of registration, to perform for the purpose specified in the document.








College name





2



The name "College of Dental Technicians of British Columbia" is the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Act for dental technology.








Reserved title





3



The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:






(a)


dental technician;






(b)


certified dental technician;






(c)


registered dental technician.








Scope of practice





4



A registrant may, if the services can be performed without intraoral procedures or the taking of impressions,






(a)


make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply, alter and repair a denture, bridge or prosthetic appliance or thing to be used in, on, in connection with, or in the treatment of a human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue for a person in accordance with a prescription to perform any of those services for that person, and






(b)


make structural repairs to a removable dental prosthesis or replace teeth in a denture without a prescription.








Restricted activities





5



(1)


No person other than a registrant may, for another individual,






(a)


make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply, alter or repair a prosthetic denture, bridge, appliance or thing to be used in, on, in connection with or in the treatment of a human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue, or






(b)


make, repair, reline, replace or furnish upper or lower full dentures.






(2)


Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who performs the services of a dental technician if






(a)


the services are performed under the direct supervision and in the office of a dentist, and






(b)


the services are performed exclusively for the practice of the dentist.






(3)


Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who






(a)


provides any services referred to in subsection (1) in the course of his or her employment by the Government of Canada or by any agent of the Government of Canada, or






(b)


is engaged solely in the business of manufacturing, fabricating or supplying in commercial quantities articles to be used by registrants, denturists, dentists or medical practitioners.



[Provisions of the

Health Professions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 12 (2)]





