




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Professions Act

Psychologists Regulation
B.C. Reg. 442/99





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 442/99

O.C. 1772/99


Deposited December 17, 1999

effective January 1, 2000





Health Professions Act


Psychologists Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Health Professions Act
;


"practice of psychology"
includes, for a fee or reward, monetary or otherwise,


(a) the provision, to individuals, groups, organizations or
the public, of any service involving the application of
principles, methods and procedures of understanding, predicting
and influencing behaviour, including the principles of learning,
perception, motivation, thinking, emotion and interpersonal
relationships,


(b) the application of methods and procedures of
interviewing, counselling, psychotherapy, behaviour therapy,
behaviour modification, hypnosis or research, or


(c) the construction, administration and interpretation of
tests of mental abilities, aptitudes, interests, opinions,
attitudes, emotions, personality characteristics, motivations and
psychophysiological characteristics, and the assessment or
diagnosis of behavioural, emotional and mental disorder.





Designation



2

(1)  Psychology is designated as a health profession.


(2)  The "College of Psychologists of British Columbia" is
the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the
Act to regulate the practice of psychology.





Reserved titles



3

(1)  No person other than a registrant may use the title
"registered psychological associate", "psychological associate",
"registered psychologist", "psychologist", a title, description or
words incorporating the word "psychology", "psychological" or
"psychologist", or other terms implying training, experience or
expertise as a psychologist.


(2)  Despite subsection (1) a person who is not a registrant
may use the title "psychologist", and a society whose members are
not registrants may incorporate the words "psychology",
"psychological" or "psychologist" in their title or designation,
if that person is, or the members of that society are,


(a) practising the profession in the course of the person's
employment with a board or council under the
Health Authorities Act
or with a community health services society, designated by the
minister for the purposes of this paragraph, incorporated under
the
Society Act
,


(b) teaching, lecturing or engaging in research as a
psychologist if those activities are carried out by reason of, and
in the course of, duties under an academic appointment or program
in a university as defined by the
University Act
, or

(c) acting in the course of employment by

(i)  a provincial, federal or municipal government or
government agency,


(ii)  an authority as defined in the
Independent School Act
,


(iii)  a francophone education authority as defined in the
School Act
, or


(iv)  a board of school trustees constituted under the
School Act
,


if qualifications in psychology are a condition of such
employment.

[am. B.C. Regs. 377/2002; 153/2007.]




Scope of practice



4

A registrant may practise psychology.





Patient relations program



5

The College is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f)
of the Act.



[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 12 and 55]





