




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Geothermal Resources Act


Geothermal Drilling and Production Regulation

B.C. Reg. 170/83





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 79/2017, effective March 31,
2017.





B.C. Reg. 170/83

Ministerial Regulation


Filed April 25, 1983






Geothermal Resources Act


Geothermal Drilling and Production Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 248/2004]






Interpretation




1


In this regulation,


"Act"
means the
Geothermal Resources Act
;



"development well"

means a well that, upon approval of its well authorization, was
located on a geothermal lease;



"exploratory well"

means a well that, upon approval of its well authorization, was
located on a geothermal permit;



"information obtained from a test hole"

includes but is not limited to any unprocessed or processed log
data, cores, samples, tests, analyses, descriptions, temperature
measurements, drilling information, geological information, test
information and reports;


"operator"
means the owner responsible to the division for the drilling,
completion, production and abandonment of a well or test hole;



"work-over"

means any operation that has changed the producing interval or
producing characteristics of a well by perforating, abandoning a
portion of the well, running casing or any major or recently
developed stimulation operation but does not include routine
stimulation operations or the changing or replacement of
equipment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 54/97, s. 1.]





Service of notice




2

(1)


An operator of a well shall register an address within the
Province with the division before operations commence.




(2)

A notice or order issued under this regulation may be served on an
operator by leaving it with a person at the registered address or
by sending it by registered mail to that address.






Variation of program




3

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), departure from or variance in a program
of operations approved or prescribed under this regulation shall
not be made without the approval in writing of an officer of the
division.




(2)

Where an emergency occurs and an immediate departure from or
variation in the program is necessary, the division shall be
notified immediately of the departure or variation followed by
confirmation in writing.






Position of test holes




4

(1)


No operator shall drill a test hole within




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 1.]




(b)

20 m of a driveway or gateway,




(c)

80 m of a school, church or other public building or a residence,
or




(d)

200 m of a water well.




(2)

Where a test hole is drilled in the vicinity of a gas, oil, steam
or water pipeline, electric cable, transmission line or utility,
an operator shall ensure that every reasonable precaution is taken
to ensure that the pipeline, electric cable, transmission line or
utility is not damaged or its use interrupted.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 1.]





Test hole information requirements




5

(1)


Not more than 3 months after the date of rig release of the
drilling rig from a test hole, the operator shall submit a report
to the division containing the following information:




(a)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 2 (a).]




(b)

the survey relationship of the test hole drilled to the nearest
corner of the legal subdivision or quarter unit in which the test
hole is positioned;




(c)

the ground elevation of the test holes drilled in metres above sea
level;




(d)

the total depths of the test holes;




(e)

a report of any lost circulation zones encountered or blow-outs
reported during the drilling of the test holes;




(f)

any other information that may be required by an officer of the
division.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 2 (b).]




(3)

One copy of each log, including temperature measurements, taken at
a test hole shall be submitted to the division within 30 days
after the date the log or measurement was taken.




(4)

Subject to subsections (5) to (8), information obtained from a
test hole that is received by the ministry in the course of the
administration of the Act must be held confidential by the
ministry.




(5)

Information obtained from a test hole must be released from
confidential status 10 years after the date of release of the
drilling rig for the test hole.




(6)

Information obtained from a test hole by the ministry in the
course of the administration of the Act may be made available by
the ministry to the government of Canada or an agency of the
government of Canada if that government or agency gives adequate
assurance that the information will be kept in confidence within
that government or agency.




(7)

Information obtained from a test hole may be released from
confidential status




(a)

if the division head is satisfied that the holder of the test hole
authorization no longer carries on activities that are pertinent
to the information obtained from the test hole, or




(b)

with the concurrence of the holder of the test hole authorization.




(8)

Information about the position, ground elevation and drilling
status of a test hole is available to the public at all times
during business hours.

[am. B.C. Regs. 54/97, s. 2; 248/2004, s. 2.]





Position of wells




6


No well shall be drilled within 80 m of




(a)

the right of way or easement of any road allowance or public
utility,




(b)

a permanent building, installation or works,




(c) and (d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 3.]


unless special circumstances exist and an officer of the division
gives written permission to drill a well at a specified position.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 3.]





Drilling near mine workings and underground storage




7


No well shall be drilled within 3 km of a subsurface mine working
or underground storage facility except with the written approval
of the division head.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 4.]





Spacing for wells




8


The spacing of a well on a geothermal lease shall conform with the
development plan submitted under section 8 (1) of the Act.






Well names




9

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 5 (a).]




(2)

The well name shall clearly identify by name, or an abbreviation
acceptable to the division head, or by number or letter




(a)

the operator,




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 5 (b).]




(c)

the site of the well




(i)

in the Peace River Block, by legal subdivision, section, township
and range, or




(ii)

outside the Peace River Block, by quarter-unit, unit and block.




(3) and (4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 5 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 5.]





Changes of well names




10


Where an operator wishes to change the name of a well, he shall
submit an application to change a well name, together with a fee
of $35, to the division and, if an officer of the division
approves, the name may be changed accordingly.






Notification of commencement of drilling




11


The division shall be notified within 24 hours of the commencement
of the drilling of a well.






Signs




12


Unless exempted by an officer of the division, an operator shall
ensure that a legible and conspicuous permanent sign is displayed
and maintained at a well showing the name of the operator and the
name of the well.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 6.]





Exemption order of the division head




12.1


The division head may exempt, by order, an operator from a
requirement under section 13, 15 or 17 (4) in relation to a well
on conditions specified in the order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 7.]





Samples and cores




13


An operator must




(a)

while drilling a well, take a series of samples, at depth
intervals of 10 m, of the various formations which drilling
penetrates, and




(b)

prepare and deliver to the division, within 30 days of the release
of the drilling rig, descriptions of these samples and of any
cores taken in the well.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 8.]





Tests, analyses, surveys and logs




14

(1)


Immediately on obtaining data and results of




(a)

a bottom hole sample analysis,




(b)

a pressure, volume or temperature analysis, or




(c)

a measurement made on a well for the purpose of investigating the
well's producing characteristics,


the operator shall submit the information to the division.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 9 (a).]




(3)

As drilling progresses, an operator shall record abnormal changes
in well temperatures and drilling rates on the daily report.




(4)

An operator must submit a copy of each log to the division not
more than 30 days after the date the log was taken.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 9.]





Deviation and directional surveys in wells




15


An operator must make




(a)

deviation surveys during well drilling at 150 m depth intervals,
or




(b)

a directional survey on completion of drilling operations.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 10.]





Tools, casing, equipment and materials




16


An operator shall ensure that all tools, casing, equipment and
materials used in the drilling or production of a well are in good
condition and are adequate for the purpose for which they are
used.






Casing requirements




17

(1)


An operator shall set surface casing to a minimum depth of 15% of
the expected total depth or intermediate casing depth, but in any
case not less than 150 m below ground level and 25 m into a
competent formation, using a method approved by the division head
and in accordance with good practice, and the annulus shall be
filled with cement to the surface unless otherwise approved by an
officer of the division.




(2)

An operator must set surface casing cement under pressure and must
not drill out surface casing cement until sufficient compressive
strength has been reached to obtain a valid formation integrity
test in accordance with good operating practice.




(3)

Where a float collar or float shoe is used, pressure at the
surface may be released immediately upon completion of the cement
job.




(4)

An operator must




(a)

cement intermediate and production casing through all porous
zones, including not less than 150 m above the casing shoe,




(b)

test this cementing in accordance with good operating practice,
and




(c)

not drill out this cementing until sufficient compressive strength
has been reached in accordance with good operating practice.




(5)

Where there is any reason to doubt the effectiveness of a casing
cementation, an operator shall make a survey to determine the top
of the cement in the annulus and shall take remedial measures
where necessary.




(6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 11 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 11.]





Blow out prevention requirements




18

(1)


The following classes of blow out prevention equipment shall be
used for the depth of well specified:




(a)

Class A equipment shall be used on a well with a depth of not more
than 1 850 m;




(b)

Class B equipment shall be used on a well with a depth of not more
than 3 000 m;




(c)

Class C equipment shall be used on a well with a depth of not more
than 5 500 m;




(d)

Class D equipment shall be used on a well with a depth of more
than 5 500 m.




(2)

The pressure rating of blow out prevention equipment shall be as
follows:




(a)

for Class A equipment, 14 000 to 21 000 kPa;




(b)

for Class B equipment, 21 000 kPa;




(c)

for Class C equipment, 34 000 kPa;




(d)

for Class D equipment, 70 000 kPa.




(3)

An operator must maintain blow out prevention equipment in good
working order if a well is being drilled and must regularly test
this equipment in accordance with good operating practice so that
all flows from the well are safely controlled and the environment
is protected.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 12.]





Repealed




19-20


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 13.]






Testing blow out prevention equipment




21

(1)


Prior to drilling out cement from a string of casing, each unit of
the blow out prevention equipment shall be pressure tested, first
to a pressure of 1 000 kPa and then to not less than
7 000 kPa for a period of 10 minutes and until the
equipment passes the test the operator shall not proceed with
further drilling.




(2)

Where a well is being drilled, tested during drilling operations,
completed or worked over




(a)

the appropriate blow out prevention equipment shall be operated
daily and if found to be defective, the operator shall ensure that
it is repaired before operations are resumed,




(b)

the operator shall ensure that at least one person is on tour at
the well site who




(i)

is trained in blow out prevention, and




(ii)

has a first line supervisor certificate issued within the past 3
years by the Petroleum Industry Training Service,


and evidence of his qualifications shall be made available to an
officer of the division on request,




(c)

the operator shall ensure that the rig manager and the operator's
representative at the well site




(i)

are trained in blow out prevention, and




(ii)

possess a second line supervisor certificate issued within the
past 3 years by the Petroleum Industry Training Service.




(d) and (e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 14 (a).]




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 14 (b).]




(4)

An operator shall report full particulars of all tests in the
daily report and, in the case of a pressure test, the pressure
applied and the duration of the test shall be recorded.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 14.]





Operation of blow out prevention equipment




22


A rig crew shall have an adequate understanding of, and be able to
operate, the blow out prevention equipment and, when requested by
an officer of the division, the contractor or rig crew shall




(a)

demonstrate the operation and effectiveness of the blow out
prevention equipment, and




(b)

perform a blow out prevention drill in accordance with the Well
Control Procedure placard issued by the Canadian Association of
Oilwell Drilling Contractors or as outlined by the Petroleum
Industry Training Service, Blow Out Prevention Manual.






Maintenance of blow out prevention equipment




23


An operator shall maintain blow out prevention equipment so that
its operation will not be impaired by low temperatures.






Repealed




24


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 15.]






Surface and sub-surface equipment




25


An operator must keep at all times prior to abandonment of the
well a detailed record of all sub-surface equipment in the well
and must make the record available to an officer of the division
on request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 16.]





Uncontrolled flow




26


An operator shall take every reasonable precaution to prevent a
well from flowing uncontrolled and shall immediately make a verbal
report of any well flowing uncontrolled to the division and
confirm it in writing forthwith.






Submission of information




27


On request by an officer of the division, the operator shall
provide all information connected with or derived from the
drilling, production or other work performed on a well.






Daily drilling reports




28

(1)


An operator must keep a daily report at the site of a well being
drilled or otherwise worked on.




(2)

An operator must submit a copy of each daily report to the
division at the completion of operations.




(3)

An operator must include in a daily report complete data on all
operations performed at the well on the day for which the report
is prepared.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 17.]





Repealed




29


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 17.]






Wellsite geology reports




30


Not more than 2 months after the date of rig release of the
drilling rig from a well, the operator shall submit a wellsite
geology report to the division.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 18.]





Work-over reports




31

(1)


An operator shall submit a work-over report to the division not
more than one month after a work-over operation.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 19.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 19.]





Release of information




32

(1)


In this section:



"geothermal reports"

means geothermal reports, geological reports, geophysical reports
and geothermal resource estimates, but does not include well
reports and well data;



"well reports and well data"

means information obtained from a geothermal well, for example,
unprocessed and processed log data, dipmeter surveys, directional
surveys, drill stem test data and analyses, wire line data,
pressure-volume-temperature and flow test data and analyses,
completion information, geological information, drilling depths,
casing and cementing information, well status, fluid sample or
analysis data, drill cuttings and any analysis and description of
the drill cuttings and cores, but does not include geothermal
reports.




(2)

Subject to this section, geothermal reports and well reports and
well data that are received by the ministry in the course of the
administration of the Act must be held confidential by the
ministry.




(3)

Geothermal reports must be released from confidential status 28
years after the date of receipt by the ministry.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 20 (a).]




(5)

Information obtained from a well and recorded with the division
must be released from confidential status 2 years after the date
of release of the drilling rig for that well.




(6)

The following information is available to the public at all times
during business hours:




(a)

position, ground elevation and drilling status of a well;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 20 (c).]




(c)

information about monthly production, or injection of steam, brine
or any fluids, for wells on regular production or injection.




(7)

Well reports, well data and geothermal reports may be released
from confidential status




(a)

if, for any reason, the rights to the well have reverted to the
Crown, or




(b)

with the concurrence of the person who submitted the information
to the ministry.




(8)

Geological and well reports and well data may be made available by
the ministry to the government of Canada or an agency of the
government of Canada if that government or agency gives adequate
assurance that the information will be kept in confidence within
that government or agency.




(9)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may release well reports and
well data or geothermal reports at any time if the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers it in the public interest to do so.


[en. B.C. Reg. 54/97, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 20.]






Repealed




33-36


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 21.]






Plugging requirements of wells and test holes




37

(1)


An operator must not leave a well or test hole unplugged or
uncased after it is no longer used for the purpose for which it
was drilled or converted.




(2)

The division head may order one or more of the following persons
to abandon, plug or restore a well or test hole:




(a)

a owner or operator of the well or test hole;




(b)

a trustee in bankruptcy, receiver or receiver-manager of the owner
or operator or other person, not the owner or operator of the well
or test hole, who, in the opinion of the division head, has a
financial interest in the well or test hole equivalent to that of
an owner or operator.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 22.]





Restoration of surface




38

(1)


As soon as weather permits on completion of a well or final
abandonment of a well, test hole or production facility, the
operator must return the surface to a condition that duplicates as
closely as is reasonable the surface condition at the time
operations were commenced.




(2)

An operator shall submit an application for a certificate of
restoration to the division, after restoration of the surface of
an abandoned well, test hole or production facility in accordance
with this section.




(3)

Where the owner of the surface consents in writing, an operator
need not comply with subsection (1).

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 23.]





Disposal of drilling and production material




39

(1)


An operator must ensure that




(a)

a fluid produced from or used in a well or test hole does not
create a hazard to public health or safety or to the environment,
and




(b)

gaseous substances or odors produced from a well, test hole or
production facility do not create a hazard to public health or
safety.




(2)

An operator must dispose of fluid or gaseous substances produced
from a well, test hole or production facility by a method that
safeguards public health or safety and the environment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 24.]





Measurement of fluid production




40

(1)


An operator shall measure fluid produced from a well by a method
approved by an officer of the division.




(2)

An officer of the division may, on application by an operator,
exempt the operator from complying with this section where special
circumstances exist.






Well testing




41

(1)


An operator shall production test a well using a method approved
by an officer of the division.




(2)

The operator shall submit a detailed report of the test to the
division within 2 months of the date in which the test was
completed.






Report of geothermal production




42


An operator shall submit a monthly report on production of a
geothermal resource to the division giving particulars of dates
produced, hours produced, volumes produced and pressures measured.






Exemptions




43


The division head may, in relation to a particular location or
well and subject to conditions the division head specifies, exempt
a person from the application of all or part of this regulation.






Offence




44


A person who contravenes a section of this regulation other than
section 2 (1), 5 (4) or 32 (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence.

[am. B.C. Reg. 248/2004, s. 25.]


[Provisions of the
Geothermal Resources Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 171, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 23]





