




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Health Professions Act



Dietitians Regulation


B.C. Reg. 296/2002







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17, 2008.





B.C. Reg. 296/2002


O.C. 965/2002



Deposited November 8, 2002







Health Professions Act




Dietitians Regulation








Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"Act"

means the

Health Professions Act

;



"compound"

means to mix ingredients for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"dietetics"

means the assessment of nutritional needs, design, implementation and evaluation of nutritional care plans and therapeutic diets, the science of food and human nutrition, and dissemination of information about food and human nutrition to attain, maintain and promote the health of individuals, groups and the community;



"design"

means the selection of appropriate ingredients for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"dispense"

means to fill a prescription for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"enteral"

means administration of a nutritional substance to a patient by means of a feeding tube into the gastrointestinal tract;



"medical practitioner"

means a person authorized to practise medicine under the

Medical Practitioners Act

;



"parenteral"

means administration of a nutritional substance to a patient directly into the blood stream.






Designation




2


(1) 							Dietetics is designated as a health profession.


(2)
The College of Dietitians of British Columbia is the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the

Health Professions Act

for dietetics.






Reserved titles




3


On and after the date 12 months after this regulation comes into force, a person who is not a registrant must not use the title "dietitian".






Scope of practice




4


A registrant may practise dietetics.






Reserved acts




5


Subject to section 14 of the Act, no person other than a registrant who meets the additional qualifications set out in the bylaws of the College may


(a) design, compound or dispense therapeutic diets if nutrition is administered through enteral means,


(b) design therapeutic diets if nutrition is administered through parenteral means, or


(c) administer a substance to a person by instillation through enteral or parenteral means.






Limitations on practice




6


(1)
No registrant may insert a feeding tube.


(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply to a registrant who


(a) is acting under delegated authority of a medical practitioner, and


(b) is acting in accordance with standards developed for the purposes of paragraph (a) by the board and approved by the board and the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia.






Patient relations program




7


The College is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.



[Provisions of the

Health Professions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 12]





