




"Point in Time" Regulation Content






National Instrument 55-102 System for Electronic Disclosure by Insiders (SEDI)


B.C. Reg. 230/2001







NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content								as it was prior to the changes made on the effective date. (PIT
covers changes made from September 19, 2009 to
"current to" date of the regulation.)





SECTION


EFFECTIVE DATE




Section 1.1



December 2, 2013








June 9, 2023





Form Form 55-102F1



June 9, 2023





Form 55-102F3



June 9, 2023





Form 55-102F5



December 2, 2013











Section 1.1 definition of "SEDI operator" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 210/2013, effective December 2, 2013.



"SEDI operator"

means CDS INC. or a successor appointed by the securities regulatory authority to operate SEDI;






Section 1.1 definition of "SEDI issuer" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 140/2023, effective June 9, 2023.



"SEDI issuer"

means a reporting issuer, other than a mutual fund, that is required to comply with National Instrument 13-101

System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (SEDAR)

, including a foreign issuer referred to under paragraph 2 of subsection 2.1 (1) of that Instrument;






Section Form 55-102F1, item 9 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 140/2023, effective June 9, 2023.



9  Add name(s) of reporting issuer(s)



Add the name of each reporting issuer in respect of which the insider is required to file an insider report in SEDI format. Search for and select each reporting issuer to be added from a database of all SEDI issuers provided for this purpose. Use the reporting issuer's SEDAR number or its legal name (in English or French) to conduct your search. Make sure you select the correct reporting issuer before you proceed further. If you are unable to find the reporting issuer that you are searching for, contact the reporting issuer or the SEDI operator for assistance. Note that the reporting issuer will not appear in your search results unless the reporting issuer has created an issuer profile in SEDAR and filed an issuer profile supplement in SEDI.


If the insider has ceased to be an insider of a reporting issuer added previously to the insider profile, see item 12 below.






Section 55-102F3, item 1 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 140/2023, effective June 9, 2023.



1  Name of reporting issuer



Provide the name of the reporting issuer for which the issuer profile supplement is being created by searching for the reporting issuer using the reporting issuer's SEDAR number or the reporting issuer's legal name (in English or French). If the reporting issuer's name does not appear in the search results, an issuer profile must be created for the reporting issuer in SEDAR before proceeding further with any SEDI filings. See National Instrument 13-101

System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (SEDAR)

.






Form 55-102F5 BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 210/2013, effective December 2, 2013.




Form 55-102F5



SEDI User Registration Form





An individual who intends to use SEDI to file information with the securities regulatory authority is required to complete and submit a user registration form in SEDI format containing the information prescribed below. The information must be entered using the online version of this form accessible at the SEDI web site (www.sedi.ca). To access the online user registration form, select "Register as a SEDI user" on the navigation bar at the top of the web page titled "Welcome to SEDI".



1  Full legal name of SEDI user






Provide your family name and your given names. Use upper and lower case letters as applicable. Do not use initials, nicknames or abbreviations.




2  Name of employer and position of SEDI user






If you are acting on behalf of an employer, provide the full legal name of your employer and your position with that employer.




3  Address of SEDI user






If you are an insider, provide your principal residential address. Otherwise, provide the business address where you are employed. A post office box or other mailing address is not sufficient.




4  SEDI user's telephone number






Provide your daytime telephone number.




5  SEDI user's fax number






If available, provide your fax number.




6  SEDI user's e-mail address






If available, provide your e-mail address.




7  Check the appropriate box for SEDI user classification






Indicate whether you expect to access SEDI as an insider, an agent and/or an issuer's representative by checking the appropriate box or boxes. The type of user classification will determine the amount of functionality you will have in the SEDI application software.




8  Confidential question and answer






Provide a "confidential question" and an answer to the confidential question for use in verifying your identity if a request in your name is being made to the SEDI operator for a new password.



Certification



Prior to submitting the completed online user registration form, you must certify that the information is true in all material respects and you must agree to update the information submitted as soon as practicable following any material change in the information.



Delivery of Signed Copy to SEDI Operator



Before you may make a valid SEDI filing, you must deliver a manually signed paper copy of the completed user registration form to the SEDI operator for verification purposes. To satisfy this requirement, it is preferred that you print a copy of the online user registration form once you have certified and submitted it. You must deliver a manually signed and dated copy of the completed user registration form via prepaid mail, personal delivery or facsimile to the SEDI operator at the following address or fax number, as applicable:


CDS INC.

Attention: SEDI Administrator

85 Richmond Street West

Toronto, Ontario   M5H 2C9


Facsimile: 1-800-729-8011


or, if you are resident in the province of Québec, to the SEDI operator at the address above, or to:


CDS INC.

Attention: SEDI Administrator

600 boul. de Maisonneuve Ouest

Montreal, Québec

H3A 3J2


or at such other address(es) or fax number(s) as may be provided on the SEDI web site (www.sedi.ca).



Questions



Questions may be directed to CDS INC. at 1-800-219-5381 or such other number as may be provided on the SEDI web site.



Notice — Collection and Use of Personal Information



The personal information that you provide on this form is used to facilitate your access to and use of the SEDI system and is not used for any other purpose. The signed copy of the completed form that you deliver to CDS INC. (the SEDI operator) is retained by CDS INC. as evidence of your registration as a SEDI user. The information you provide on this form will not be disclosed to any third party except any of the securities regulatory authorities or their authorized representatives for purposes of the administration or enforcement of securities legislation in the applicable jurisdictions. For information about the use of the information collected on this form or if you would like to obtain access to the information you have submitted, contact the CDS SEDI Administrator at the address or telephone number provided above. In Québec, questions may also be addressed to the Commission d'accès à l'information du Québec (1-888-528-7741, web site: www.cai.gouv.qc.ca).




SEDI User Registration Form



Note: Before an individual registering as a SEDI user may make a valid SEDI filing, the registering individual must deliver a manually signed paper copy of the completed user registration form to the SEDI operator for verification purposes. It is preferred that the registering individual print a copy of the online version using the "Print" function provided for this purpose in SEDI. The signed paper copy must be delivered by prepaid mail, personal delivery or facsimile to: CDS INC., Attention: SEDI Administrator, 85 Richmond Street West, Toronto, Ontario M5H 2C9, Facsimile: 1-800-729-8011 or, if you are resident in the province of Québec, to the SEDI operator at the address above, or to CDS INC., Attention: SEDI Administrator, 600 boul. de Maisonneuve Ouest, Montreal, Québec, H3A 3J2.



Section 1 SEDI User Information





Family name:


Given names (in full):




Employer name and position (if applicable):




Address (street name and number, etc.):


Municipality (city, town, etc.):




Province, territory or state:


Country:


Postal code or zip code:




Telephone number:

(     )


Fax number (if available):

(     )




E-mail address (if available):





Section 2 SEDI User Classification





Check the appropriate box or boxes:




[  ]  Insider


[  ]  Agent


[  ]  Issuer representative





Section 3 Certification of SEDI User



I certify that the foregoing information is true in all material respects. I agree to update the information submitted on this form in SEDI as soon as practicable following any material change in the information. I agree that an executed copy of Form 55-102F5, if delivered to CDS INC. by facsimile, shall have the same effect as an originally executed copy delivered to CDS INC.




Signature of SEDI user


Date:







