




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Securities Act



National Instrument 55-101 Insider Reporting Exemptions


B.C. Reg. 212/2005







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 104/2010, effective April 30, 2010.





B.C. Reg. 212/2005


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited April 28, 2005


effective April 30, 2005







Securities Act




National Instrument 55-101

Insider Reporting Exemptions








Part 1 - Definitions





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument:



"acceptable summary form"

, in relation to the alternative form of insider report described in section 5.3, means an insider report that discloses as a single transaction, using December 31 of the relevant year as the date of the transaction, and providing an average unit price,


(a) the total number of securities of the same type acquired under an automatic securities purchase plan, or under all such plans, for the calendar year, and


(b) the total number of securities of the same type disposed of under all specified dispositions of securities under an automatic securities purchase plan, or under all such plans, for the calendar year;



"automatic securities purchase plan"

means a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, a stock dividend plan or any other plan of a reporting issuer or of a subsidiary of a reporting issuer to facilitate the acquisition of securities of the reporting issuer if the timing of acquisitions of securities, the number of securities which may be acquired under the plan by a director or senior officer of the reporting issuer or of the subsidiary of the reporting issuer and the price payable for the securities are established by written formula or criteria set out in a plan document;



"cash payment option"

means a provision in a dividend or interest reinvestment plan under which a participant is permitted to make cash payments to purchase from the issuer, or from an administrator of the issuer, securities of the issuer's own issue, in addition to the securities


(a) purchased using the amount of the dividend, interest or distribution payable to or for the account of the participant, or


(b) acquired as a stock dividend or other distribution out of earnings or surplus;



"dividend or interest reinvestment plan"

means an arrangement under which a holder of securities of an issuer is permitted to direct that the dividends, interest or distributions paid on the securities be applied to the purchase, from the issuer or an administrator of the issuer, of securities of the issuer's own issue;



"ineligible insider"

in relation to a reporting issuer means


(a) an individual performing the functions of the chief executive officer, the chief operating officer or the chief financial officer for the reporting issuer;


(b) a director of the reporting issuer;


(c) a director of a major subsidiary of the reporting issuer;


(d) a senior officer in charge of a principal business unit, division or function of


(i)  the reporting issuer, or


(ii)  a major subsidiary of the reporting issuer;


(e) other than in Québec, a person that has direct or indirect beneficial ownership of, control or direction over, or a combination of direct or indirect beneficial ownership of, and control or direction over, securities of the reporting issuer carrying more than 10 percent of the voting rights attached to all the reporting issuer's outstanding voting securities; or


(f) in Québec, a person who exercises control over more than 10 percent of a class of shares of the reporting issuer to which are attached voting rights or an unlimited right to a share of the profits of the reporting issuer and in its assets in case of winding-up;



"insider issuer"

in relation to a reporting issuer means an issuer that is an insider of the reporting issuer;



"investment issuer"

in relation to an issuer means a reporting issuer in respect of which the issuer is an insider;



"issuer event"

means a stock dividend, stock split, consolidation, amalgamation, reorganization, merger or other similar event that affects all holdings of a class of securities of an issuer in the same manner, on a per share basis;



"lump-sum provision"

means a provision of an automatic securities purchase plan that allows a director or senior officer to acquire securities in consideration of an additional lump-sum payment, including, in the case of a dividend or interest reinvestment plan that is an automatic securities purchase plan, a cash payment option;



"major subsidiary"

means a subsidiary of a reporting issuer if


(a) the assets of the subsidiary, on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries, as included in the most recent annual audited balance sheet of the reporting issuer, are 20 percent or more of the consolidated assets of the reporting issuer reported on that balance sheet, or


(b) the revenues of the subsidiary, on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries, as included in the most recent annual audited income statement of the reporting issuer, are 20 percent or more of the consolidated revenues of the reporting issuer reported on that statement;



"normal course issuer bid"

means


(a) an issuer bid that is made in reliance on the exemption contained in securities legislation from certain requirements relating to issuer bids that is available if the number of securities acquired by the issuer within a period of twelve months does not exceed 5 percent of the securities of that class issued and outstanding at the commencement of the period, or


(b) a normal course issuer bid as defined in the policies of the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), The TSX Venture Exchange or an exchange that is a recognized exchange, as defined in National Instrument 21-101

Marketplace Operation

, that is conducted in accordance with the rules or policies of that exchange;



"senior officer"

, in a jurisdiction whose legislation does not define that term, means an officer as defined in the legislation of that jurisdiction;



"specified disposition of securities"

means a disposition or transfer of securities under an automatic securities purchase plan that satisfies the conditions set forth in section 5.4; and



"stock dividend plan"

means an arrangement under which securities of an issuer are issued by the issuer to holders of securities of the issuer as a stock dividend or other distribution out of earnings or surplus.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 2.]





Part 2 - Exemptions for Certain Directors and Senior Officers





Reporting Exemption (Certain Directors)




2.1


The insider reporting requirement does not apply to a director of a subsidiary of a reporting issuer in respect of securities of the reporting issuer if the director


(a) does not in the ordinary course receive or have access to information as to material facts or material changes concerning the reporting issuer before the material facts or material changes are generally disclosed; and


(b) is not an ineligible insider in relation to the reporting issuer.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 3.]






Reporting Exemption (Certain Senior Officers)




2.2


The insider reporting requirement does not apply to a senior officer of a reporting issuer or a subsidiary of the reporting issuer in respect of securities of the reporting issuer if the senior officer


(a) does not in the ordinary course receive or have access to information as to material facts or material changes concerning the reporting issuer before the material facts or material changes are generally disclosed; and


(b) is not an ineligible insider in relation to the reporting issuer.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 3.]






Reporting Exemption (Certain Insiders of Investment Issuers)




2.3


The insider reporting requirement does not apply to a director or senior officer of an insider issuer, or a director or senior officer of a subsidiary of the insider issuer, in respect of securities of an investment issuer if the director or senior officer


(a) does not in the ordinary course receive or have access to information as to material facts or material changes concerning the investment issuer before the material facts or material changes are generally disclosed; and


(b) is not an ineligible insider in relation to the investment issuer.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 3.]





Part 3 - Exemption for Directors and Senior Officers of Affiliates of Insiders of a Reporting Issuer





Québec




3.1


This Part does not apply in Québec.






Reporting Exemption




3.2


Subject to section 3.3, the insider reporting requirement does not apply to a director or senior officer of an affiliate of an insider of a reporting issuer in respect of securities of the reporting issuer.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 4.]






Limitation




3.3


The exemption in section 3.2 is not available if the director or senior officer


(a) in the ordinary course receives or has access to information as to material facts or material changes concerning the reporting issuer before the material facts or material changes are generally disclosed;


(b) is an ineligible insider in relation to the reporting issuer; or


(c) is a director or senior officer of an issuer that supplies goods or services to the reporting issuer or to a subsidiary of the reporting issuer or has contractual arrangements with the reporting issuer or a subsidiary of the reporting issuer, and the nature and scale of the supply or the contractual arrangements could reasonably be expected to have a significant effect on the market price or value of the securities of the reporting issuer.





Part 4





Repealed




4.1–4.2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 5.]





Part 5 - Reporting of Acquisitions under Automatic Securities Purchase Plan





Reporting Exemption




5.1


Subject to sections 5.2 and 5.3, the insider reporting requirement does not apply to a director or senior officer of a reporting issuer or of a subsidiary of the reporting issuer for


(a) the acquisition of securities of the reporting issuer under an automatic securities purchase plan, other than the acquisition of securities under a lump-sum provision of the plan; or


(b) a specified disposition of securities of the reporting issuer under an automatic securities purchase plan.






Limitation




5.2


(1) 							Other than in Québec, the exemption in section 5.1 is not available to an insider described in clause (e) of the definition of "ineligible insider".


(2)
In Québec, the exemption in section 5.1 is not available to an insider described in clause (f) of the definition of "ineligible insider".


(3)
An insider who is an executive officer, as defined in National Instrument 51-102

Continuous Disclosure Obligations

, or a director of the reporting issuer or of a major subsidiary may not rely on the exemption in section 5.1 for the acquisition of stock options or similar securities granted to the insider unless the reporting issuer has previously disclosed in a notice filed on SEDAR the existence and material terms of the grant, including, without limitation,


(a) the date the options or other securities were issued or granted,


(b) the number of options or other securities issued or granted to each insider who is an executive officer or director referred to above,


(c) the price at which the options or other securities were issued or granted and the exercise price, and


(d) the number and type of securities issuable on the exercise of the options or other securities.


[am. B.C. Reg. 276/2007, s. 6.]






Alternative Reporting Requirement




5.3


(1)
An insider who relies on the exemption from the insider reporting requirement contained in section 5.1 must file a report, in the form prescribed for insider trading reports under securities legislation, disclosing, on a transaction-by-transaction basis or in acceptable summary form, each acquisition of securities under the automatic securities purchase plan that has not previously been disclosed by or on behalf of the insider, and each specified disposition of securities under the automatic securities purchase plan that has not previously been disclosed by or on behalf of the insider,


(a) for any securities acquired under the automatic securities purchase plan that have been disposed of or transferred, other than securities that have been disposed of or transferred as part of a specified disposition of securities, within the time required by securities legislation for filing a report disclosing the disposition or transfer; and


(b) for any securities acquired under the automatic securities purchase plan during a calendar year that have not been disposed of or transferred, and any securities that have been disposed of or transferred as part of a specified disposition of securities, within 90 days of the end of the calendar year.


(2)
An insider is exempt from the requirement under subsection (1) if, at the time the report is due,


(a) the insider has ceased to be an insider; or


(b) the insider is entitled to an exemption from the insider reporting requirements under an exemptive relief order or under an exemption contained in Canadian securities legislation.






Specified Disposition of Securities




5.4


A disposition or transfer of securities acquired under an automatic securities purchase plan is a "specified disposition of securities" if


(a) the disposition or transfer is incidental to the operation of the automatic securities purchase plan and does not involve a discrete investment decision by the director or senior officer; or


(b) the disposition or transfer is made to satisfy a tax withholding obligation arising from the distribution of securities under the automatic securities purchase plan and either


(i)  the director or senior officer has elected that the tax withholding obligation will be satisfied through a disposition of securities, has communicated this election to the reporting issuer or the plan administrator not less than 30 days prior to the disposition and this election is irrevocable as of the 30th day before the disposition; or


(ii)  the director or senior officer has not communicated an election to the reporting issuer or the plan administrator and, in accordance with the terms of the plan, the reporting issuer or the plan administrator is required to sell securities automatically to satisfy the tax withholding obligation.





Part 6 - Reporting for Normal Course Issuer Bids





Reporting Exemption




6.1


The insider reporting requirement does not apply to an issuer for acquisitions of securities of its own issue by the issuer under a normal course issuer bid.






Reporting Requirement




6.2


An issuer who relies on the exemption from the insider reporting requirement contained in section 6.1 shall file a report, in the form prescribed for insider trading reports under securities legislation, disclosing each acquisition of securities by it under a normal course issuer bid within 10 days of the end of the month in which the acquisition occurred.





Part 7 - Reporting for Certain Issuer Events





Reporting Exemption




7.1


The insider reporting requirement does not apply to an insider of a reporting issuer whose direct or indirect beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, securities of the reporting issuer changes as a result of an issuer event of the issuer.






Reporting Requirement




7.2


An insider who relies on the exemption from the insider reporting requirement contained in section 7.1 must file a report, in the form prescribed for insider trading reports under securities legislation, disclosing all changes in direct or indirect beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, securities by the insider for securities of the reporting issuer pursuant to an issuer event that have not previously been reported by or on behalf of the insider, within the time required by securities legislation for the insider to report any other subsequent change in direct or indirect beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, securities of the reporting issuer.





Part 8 - Effective Date





Effective Date




8.1


This National Instrument comes into force on April 30, 2005.




Note:

this regulation repeals B.C. Reg. 138/2001.


[Provisions of the

Securities Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 184]





