




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Forest Act


Advertising, Deposits, Disposition and Extensions Regulation

B.C. Reg. 277/2004





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 55/2006, effective March 28,
2006.





B.C. Reg. 277/2004

O.C. 613/2004


Deposited June 18, 2004






Forest Act



Advertising, Deposits, Disposition and Extensions Regulation






Definitions



1

(1)  In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Forest Act
;


"agreement"
means a forest licence, timber sale licence, timber licence, tree
farm licence, woodlot licence, forestry licence to cut or
Christmas tree permit;


"licensee"
means a person who enters into an agreement, other than a
Christmas tree permit, with the government;


"permittee"
means a person who enters into a Christmas tree permit with the
government.


(2)  In section 58.3 of the Act and this regulation,
"harvesting"
means to

(a) cut,
(b) remove, or
(c) knock down

any timber authorized for harvest under a timber sale licence.




Part 1 - Advertising




Timber sale licence and forest licence



2

An advertisement inviting applications for a forest licence or a
timber sale licence must,

(a) if

(i)  the total volume of timber to be authorized for
harvesting under the licence is less than 2 000 m
3
, or


(ii)  the timber must be removed expeditiously because it is
in imminent danger of being damaged, destroyed or otherwise lost,


be published at least once, a minimum of 5 days before the date of
sale, in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the area
proposed for the licence,


(b) if the total volume of timber to be authorized for
harvesting under the licence is 2 000 m
3
or more, but less than 15 000 m
3
, be published


(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  at least once, within a period of 3 consecutive weeks
following the date of the publication in the Gazette, in at least
one newspaper circulating in or near the area proposed for the
licence,


(c) if the total volume of timber to be authorized for
harvesting under the licence is 15 000 m
3
or more, but less than 100 000 m
3
, be published


(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  at least once every 2 weeks, within a period of 4
consecutive weeks following the date of publication in the
Gazette, in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the area
proposed for the licence, or


(d) if the total volume of timber to be authorized for
harvesting under the licence is 100 000 m
3
or more, be published


(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  at least once every 2 weeks, within a period of 8
consecutive weeks following the date of the publication in the
Gazette, in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the area
proposed for the licence.





Tree farm licence



3

An advertisement inviting applications for a tree farm licence

(a) must be published

(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the
area proposed for the licence with at least one advertisement in
every second week within the period of 8 consecutive weeks from
the date of the publication in the Gazette,


(b) must be broadcast at least once every second week within
a period of 8 consecutive weeks on a radio or television station
received in or near the area proposed for the licence, and

(c) must include

(i)  an informal description of the land proposed for the
licence,


(ii)  the place and a date, at least 4 months following the
publication in the Gazette for the public hearing referred to in
section 33 (2) of the Act, and


(iii)  a name of a place in the forest region where persons
are able to obtain details of the proposed licence.





Probationary community forest agreement



3.1

An advertisement inviting applications for a probationary
community forest agreement

(a) must be published

(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the
area proposed for the agreement, at least once every 2 weeks
within a period of 4 consecutive weeks following the date of the
publication in the Gazette, and

(b) must include
(i)  an informal description of

(A)  the land that is proposed for the community forest
agreement, or


(B)  the geographic area where any proposed agreement area
will be located, and


(ii)  the name of a place in the forest region or forest
district where persons can obtain details of the proposed
agreement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 352/2004, App. 1.]




Community salvage licence



3.2

An advertisement inviting applications for a community salvage
licence

(a) must be published

(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the
area proposed for the agreement, at least once every 2 weeks
within a period of 4 consecutive weeks following the date of the
publication in the Gazette, and

(b) must include

(i)  an informal description of the land proposed for the
licence, and


(ii)  the name of a place in the forest region or forest
district where persons can obtain details of the proposed licence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 352/2004, App. 1.]




Woodlot licence



4

An advertisement inviting applications for a woodlot licence

(a) must be published

(i)  in at least one issue of the Gazette, and


(ii)  in at least one newspaper circulating in or near the
area proposed for the licence, at least once every 2 weeks within
a period of 4 consecutive weeks following the date of publication
in the Gazette, and

(b) must include

(i)  an informal description of the land proposed for the
licence, and


(ii)  the name of a place in the forest region or forest
district where persons can obtain details of the proposed licence.





Publication of offer or intent to offer replacement licence



5

(1)  Notice of


(a) an offer of a forest licence made under section 15 (1.1)
or (1.2) or an intent to offer a forest licence under section 15
(1.1),


(b) an offer of a timber licence made under section 28 (2),


(c) an offer of a tree farm licence made under section 36
(1.1) or (1.2) or an intent to offer a tree farm licence under
section 36 (1.1), or


(d) an offer of a woodlot licence made under section 46 (1)


of the Act must be published in the Gazette and in at least one
issue of at least one newspaper circulating in or near the area of
the licence not later than 6 weeks after the offer or intent to
offer, as the case may be, is made.


(2)  A notice published under subsection (1) must


(a) identify the person to whom the offer or intent to offer
was made,


(b) describe informally the land and timber that is subject
to the licence offered or intended to be offered, and


(c) describe the term of the licence offered or intended to
be offered.




Part 2 - Deposits




Deposits



6

(1)  If, under Part 3 of the Act, an application is made for
an agreement, other than a Christmas tree permit, the application
must include


(a) in cash or by certified cheque an amount that equals one
year's rent for the agreement as calculated according to the Act,
and


(b) in cash, by certified cheque or by other security
acceptable to the minister, a deposit that equals the amount
calculated under section 7, according to the information available
at the time of the application.


(2)  Despite subsection (1), if an application is made for an
agreement in the form of a timber sale licence to which section 7
(1) (c) (i) applies, the application may be without a deposit or
may include part or all of the deposit amount required under
subsection (1) (b) of this section, as specified by the timber
sales manager.


(3)  The successful applicant for a timber sale licence to
which section 7 (1) (c) (ii) applies must pay, on demand, before
entering into the agreement, any amount by which the deposit
calculated under section 7 (1) (c) (ii) exceeds the amount of
deposit paid under subsection (1) or (2).


(4)  If all or part of the deposit is used by the government
during the term of a timber sale licence, the successful applicant
must, on demand, make a further payment to maintain the deposit in
the amount determined by this section.

(5)  If

(a) an offer of a replacement for an agreement, other than a
Christmas tree permit, or


(b) an agreement, other than a Christmas tree permit, is
surrendered for replacement,


the person who accepts the offer or surrenders the agreement


(c) must maintain on deposit with the government an amount
equal to one year's rent for the replacement agreement plus a
deposit for that agreement calculated in accordance with section
7, and


(d) if the amounts required to be maintained on deposit by
paragraph (c) exceed the like amounts on deposit with the
government in respect of the agreement being replaced, must pay
the government the difference on demand.


(6)  An application for an agreement or for an offer or
surrender of an agreement, other than a Christmas tree permit,
that relates to


(a) the construction or operation of a timber processing
facility or other improvement, or


(b) land on which is situated the personal property owned by
a person other than the applicant or a person accepting the offer
or surrendering the agreement or the government


must include in cash, by certified cheque or by other security
acceptable to the minister a deposit that equals the amount
specified in the invitation for application or the offer or
surrender, as the case may be.





Amount of deposit



7

(1)  The deposit referred to in section 6 (1) to (5) is


(a) for a tree farm licence, 10¢/m
3
of the allowable annual cut,


(b) for a timber sale licence entered into under section 24
(2) of the Act before its repeal, 20¢/m
3
of the allowable annual cut,


(c) for a timber sale licence, other than a timber sale
licence referred to in paragraph (b), an amount determined by the
timber sales manager that is


(i)  for the purpose of section 6 (1) (b), and subject to
section 6 (2), is not less than the greater of

(A)  $3 000, or

(B)  2% of the total estimated upset stumpage value, and


(ii)  for the purpose of section 6 (3) is not less than the
sum of 10% of the first $100 000 of total estimated stumpage value
plus 5% of the remaining total estimated stumpage value,


(d) for a forest licence, 15¢/m
3
of the allowable annual cut,


(e) for a community salvage licence, $1 500,

(f) for a woodlot licence, $200,

(g) for a forestry licence to cut entered into under


(i)  section 24.8 or 24.9 of the Act, 20¢/m
3
of the total licence volume,


(ii)  section 47.3 of the Act, 20¢/m
3
of the total licence volume,


(iii)  section 47.6 (2) of the Act, an amount determined by
the regional manager or district manager that is the sum of 10% of
the first $100 000 of the total estimated stumpage value plus 5%
of the remaining total estimated stumpage value, and


(h) for a forestry licence to cut entered into under


(i)  section 47.6 (3) of the Act, an amount determined by the
timber sales manager, and


(ii)  section 47.6 (4) of the Act, an amount determined by
the regional manager or district manager.


(2)  If under subsection (1) (g) (iii) the minimum amount of
deposit is less than $500, the deposit required must be

(a) zero, or
(b) $500,

as determined by the regional manager or the district manager.


(3)  Despite subsections (1) and (2), section 7 of the
Advertising, Deposits and Disposition Regulation, B.C. Reg.
552/78, as it read immediately before November 4, 2003, applies to
a timber sale licence that was advertised or entered into before
that date.

[am. B.C. Reg. 146/2005.]



Part 3 - Disposition of Deposits




Refund if application not approved or if conditionally approved



8

If an application for an agreement is not approved or is approved
subject to a condition, the money paid under section 6 in respect
of the application may be refunded, if the regional manager,
timber sales manager or district manager is satisfied that there
is no need for a deposit.





Forfeiture of deposit for failure to enter agreement



9

(1)  If an application for an agreement is approved or
conditionally approved but the applicant does not enter into the
agreement, the money paid under section 6 in respect of the
application is forfeited to the government.


(2)  At the request of an applicant who did not enter into an
agreement, the minister or person authorized by the minister may
relieve the applicant from the forfeiture imposed under subsection
(1) if the minister or person authorized by the minister is
satisfied that the applicant did not enter into the agreement as
the result of

(a) an event that

(i)  is not related to financial circumstances of the
applicant,


(ii)  is beyond the control of the applicant, and


(iii)  would, if the agreement were entered into, prevent the
agreement obligations from being carried out, or


(b) a mistake made by the government which would make the
agreement voidable.


(3)  A request referred to in subsection (2) must


(a) be submitted within 30 days after the date the person is
notified that their deposit has been forfeited under subsection
(1),


(b) be signed by, or on behalf of, the requesting person, and

(c) specify the reasons for the request.




Definition for sections 11 to 13



10

In sections 11 to 13,
"agreement"
does not include a BC timber sales agreement.





Refund if obligations fulfilled or substantially fulfilled



11

(1)  A deposit paid under this regulation in respect of an
agreement may be refunded,


(a) in full, if the regional manager or district manager is
satisfied that the licensee has fulfilled its obligations under or
in respect of the agreement, or


(b) in part, if the regional manager or district manager is
satisfied that the licensee has substantially fulfilled its
obligations under or in respect of the agreement.


(2)  A deposit paid under this regulation in respect of a BC
timber sales agreement may be refunded


(a) in full, if the timber sales manager is satisfied that
the licensee has fulfilled its obligations under or in respect of
the agreement, or


(b) in an amount not exceeding 75% of the original deposit,
if the timber sales manager is satisfied that the licensee has
substantially fulfilled its obligations under or in respect of the
agreement.





Forfeiture of deposit for non-compliance



12

(1)  The regional manager or district manager must realize a
licensee's deposit if satisfied that the licensee did not comply
with the terms and conditions of an agreement and the agreement

(a) is cancelled, or
(b) expires.

(2)  The regional manager or district manager must dispose of
the amount realized from the deposit, first, under the terms of
the agreement, and then as to any amount remaining,


(a) 50% of the original deposit, or all of the balance
remaining if the balance is less than 50%, to the government, and


(b) the remainder to the licensee, unless the regional
manager or district manager is satisfied that some or all of the
remainder should be retained by the government after consideration
of the following:


(i)  whether the licensee owes money to the government that
may be set-off under the
Financial Administration Act
;


(ii)  an estimate of the direct and indirect costs to the
government resulting from the licensee's non-compliance with the
terms and conditions of the agreement including, without
restriction,

(A)  foregone stumpage, and

(B)  costs incurred or that will be incurred by the
government in the ordinary course of business as a result of the
non-compliance;


(iii)  any other information that the regional manager or
district manager considers to be relevant.


(3)  Despite subsections (1) and (2), the minister or the
minister's delegate may waive the requirement to realize a deposit
under this section or may realize a different amount than
determined under subsection (2) if satisfied that the
non-compliance was the result of an event that


(a) is not related to financial circumstances of the
licensee,


(b) is beyond the control of the licensee, and


(c) prevents the licence obligations from being carried out.





Forfeiture of deposit for non-compliance respecting BC timber
sales agreement



13

(1)  The timber sales manager must realize a BC timber sales
agreement deposit if


(a) the timber sales manager is satisfied that its holder did
not comply with


(i)  the terms and conditions of an agreement,


(ii)  the Act or a regulation made under the Act, or


(iii)  the
Forest and Range Practices Act
or a regulation or standard made under that Act, and

(b) the agreement
(i)  is cancelled,
(ii)  expires, or

(iii)  has expired and the holder has not remedied the
non-compliance by a date, not exceeding 2 years from the date of
expiry, specified by the timber sales manager.


(2)  The amount realized from the deposit under subsection
(1) must be disposed of as follows:


(a) first, if the timber sales manager considers it to be
necessary or desirable, for the purposes of remedying an
outstanding obligation

(i)  in respect of the agreement, or

(ii)  in respect of the agreement that is related to


(A)  the Act or a regulation made under the Act, or


(B)  the
Forest and Range Practices Act
or a regulation or standard made under that Act;

(b) then, as to any amount remaining,

(i)  50% of the original deposit, or all of the balance
remaining if the balance is less than 50%, to the government, and


(ii)  the remainder to the holder of the BC timber sales
agreement, unless the timber sales manager is satisfied that some
or all of the remainder should be retained by the government after
consideration of the following:


(A)  whether the holder owes money to the government that may
be set-off under the
Financial Administration Act
;


(B)  an estimate of the direct and indirect costs to the
government resulting from the holder's non-compliance with the
terms and conditions of the agreement including, without
restriction,

(I) foregone stumpage, and

(II) costs incurred or that will be incurred by the
government in the ordinary course of business as a result of the
non-compliance;


(C)  any other information that the timber sales manager
considers to be relevant.


(3)  Despite subsection (2), if the timber sales manager is
satisfied that the holder has substantially fulfilled its
obligations under or in respect of a BC timber sales agreement,
the timber sales manager must dispose of the amount realized from
a deposit as follows:


(a) first, if the timber sales manager considers it to be
necessary or desirable, for the purposes of remedying an
outstanding obligation

(i)  in respect of the agreement, or

(ii)  in respect of the agreement that is related to


(A)  the Act or a regulation made under the Act, or


(B)  the
Forest and Range Practices Act
or a regulation or standard made under that Act;

(b) then, as to any amount remaining,

(i)  25% of the original deposit, or all of the balance
remaining if the balance is less than 25%, to the government, and


(ii)  the remainder to the holder unless the holder owes
money to the government that may be set-off under the
Financial Administration Act
.


(4)  Despite subsections (1) to (3), a deposit paid under
this regulation in respect of a BC timber sales agreement is
forfeited to the government if


(a) the deposit is for a timber sale licence,


(b) the licence is cancelled or expires, and


(c) no harvesting has taken place under the licence.


(5)  Despite subsections (1) to (4), and at the request of
the holder referred to in subsections (1) to (4), the minister or
the minister's delegate may relieve the holder from


(a) the realization of a deposit under subsection (1), or

(b) a forfeiture under subsection (4)

if satisfied that the non-compliance or failure to harvest was the
result of an event that


(c) is not related to financial circumstances of the holder,


(d) is beyond the control of the holder, and


(e) prevents the agreement obligations from being carried out
or prevents the harvesting being carried out.


(6)  A request referred to in subsection (5) must


(a) be submitted within 30 days after the date the holder is
advised that all or a portion of the holder's deposit has been
realized under subsection (1) or (4),


(b) be signed by, or on behalf of, the requesting person, and

(c) specify the reasons for the request.

(7)  Subsections (1) to (3) do not apply to a timber sale
licence that was advertised before July 5, 2002


(a) under section 20 of the Act, or section 21 of the Act
before its repeal, and


(b) for which, under those sections, applications were
restricted to one or more categories of small business forest
enterprises.




Part 4 - Extensions




Extension of timber sale licences



14

(1)  An application to extend the term of a timber sale
licence must be in a form required by the timber sales manager.


(2)  Before an application to extend a timber sale licence is
approved, the applicant is required to pay the government a fee
equal to 5% of the amount calculated under section 58.1 (5) of the
Act.





Extension of cutting permits



15

(1)  An application to extend the term of a cutting permit
must be in a form required by the district manager.


(2)  Before an extension of a cutting permit is approved, the
application is required to pay to the government a fee equal to
the amount calculated according to the following formula:








the total stumpage rate

in effect at time of

cutting permit issuance




X




the total net cruise volume at the time of cutting permit

issuance or, in the absence of the total net cruise volume,

an estimation of the total volume









Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 552/78.


[Provisions of the
Forest Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 151 (1) and (2) (e)]





