




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Professions Act

Dental Technicians Regulation
B.C. Reg. 509/95





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 509/95

O.C. 1468/95


Deposited December 7, 1995






Health Professions Act


Dental Technicians Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"dentist"
means a person authorized under the
Dentists Act
to practise dentistry;


"denturist"
means a registrant of the College of Denturists of British
Columbia;


"prescription"
means a document, signed and dated by a dentist or medical
practitioner, that directs a dental technician to perform a
service that a dental technician is permitted, by the dental
technician's certificate of registration, to perform for the
purpose specified in the document.





Designation



2

(1)  Dental technology is designated as a health profession.


(2)  The College of Dental Technicians of British Columbia is
the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the
Health Professions Act
for the health profession of dental technology.





Reserved titles



3

No person who is not a dental technician may use the title "dental
technician", "certified dental technician" or "registered dental
technician".

[en. B.C. Reg. 162/98.]




Scope of practice



4

A registrant may, if the services can be performed without
intraoral procedures or the taking of impressions,


(a) make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply,
alter and repair a denture, bridge or prosthetic appliance or
thing to be used in, on, in connection with, or in the treatment
of a human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue for a
person in accordance with a prescription to perform any of those
services for that person, and


(b) make structural repairs to a removable dental prosthesis
or replace teeth in a denture without a prescription.





Reserved acts



5

(1)  Subject to section 14 of the
Health Professions Act
, no person other than a registrant may, for another,


(a) make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply,
alter or repair a prosthetic denture, bridge, appliance or thing
to be used in, on, in connection with or in the treatment of a
human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue, or


(b) make, repair, reline, replace or furnish upper or lower
full dentures.


(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who performs
the services of a dental technician where


(a) the services are performed under the direct supervision
and in the office of a dentist, and


(b) the services are performed exclusively for the practice
of the dentist.


(3)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who


(a) provides any services referred to in subsection (1) in
the course of his or her employment by the Government of Canada or
by any agent of the Government of Canada, or


(b) is engaged solely in the business of manufacturing,
fabricating or supplying in commercial quantities articles to be
used by registrants, denturists, dentists or medical
practitioners.



[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 12]





