




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Health Act



Slaughter House Regulation


B.C. Reg. 350/83







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 299/2007, effective September 30, 2007.





B.C. Reg. 350/83


O.C. 1510/83




Filed September 16, 1983








Health Act




Slaughter House Regulation








Interpretation




1


In this regulation:



"Act"

means the

Health Act

;



"approved"

means approved in writing by a medical health officer or a public health inspector;



"health hazard"

means a condition or circumstance that has or may have an adverse effect on the health of a person, and includes a condition or circumstance that is insanitary or which prevents or hinders the suppression of disease;



"inspected"

means inspected by a medical health officer or a public health inspector;



"operator"

means the person operating a slaughter house, and includes the owner.






Application




2


This regulation applies with respect to a slaughter house only if the slaughter house


(a) is located in an area of the Province located outside all the areas set out in Column 2 of the schedule to this regulation, and


(b) is operating at the time this section comes into force.


[en. B.C. Reg. 356/2004, s. 1 (a).]






Responsibility and compliance




3


No person who is an operator shall


(a) operate or manage a slaughter house, or


(b) permit any premises, building, structure, equipment, utensil or other thing used in or as part of a slaughter house to be so used


except in accordance with the standards and requirements of this regulation.






Approval




4


(1) 							No person shall construct, convert or establish a building into or for use as a slaughter house unless its plans and specifications have been first approved.


(2)
No person shall operate a slaughter house until it has first been inspected and approved.






Inspections




5


(1)
Every slaughter house shall be inspected as often as is necessary in the interests of public health and safety, to ensure compliance with this regulation and the Act.


(2)
Animals intended for slaughter and all fresh meat exposed for sale shall be inspected as often as may be necessary in the interests of public health and safety, and to ensure compliance with this regulation and the Act.






Basic requirements for slaughter house




6


Every slaughter house shall have


(a) yards and pens with shelter for cattle and appliances and conveniences for feeding and watering them,


(b) a killing floor,


(c) a refrigerated storage room with a separate hanging room,


(d) proper and adequate appliances for killing animals and for cleaning and hanging their carcasses, for heating water for removal of blood and offal, and for receiving the organs and fat,


(e) an adequate supply of pure water for flushing and general cleansing purposes,


(f) sufficient and proper appliances for heating and ventilation,


(g) thorough and adequate ventilation, and


(h) an approved sewage disposal system and method of waste disposal, sufficient in each case to prevent a health hazard arising.






Dry ground required




7


The ground on which a slaughter house is to be situated shall be selected for its dryness, and, where necessary, subsoil water shall be carried away by a 7.6 cm (3 inch) field tile laid


(a) around the outside of the foundation of the building, and


(b) lower than the floor of the building.






Floors in slaughter house




8


The floors in a slaughter house shall be laid on a foundation of


(a) concrete and constructed from concrete with roughened surface, or


(b) other material impervious to water.






No dwelling in slaughter house




9


No building occupied in whole or in part as a slaughter house shall be occupied at any time as a dwelling or lodging place.






Non-absorbent material required




10


Where, in a slaughter house, persons treat or handle meat, refuse, offal, fertilizer or any other materials derived directly or indirectly from the slaughtering of animals, the floors at that location shall be made of water tight, non-absorbent material, properly drained, and the walls of every killing room, meat dressing room and cooling room shall be finished with non-absorbent material that facilitates easy cleaning.






Controlled drainage required




11


The yards, other than where cattle are kept, shall be


(a) constructed so as not to absorb liquid filth, and


(b) graded so as to permit controlled drainage.






Woodwork to be painted




12


All interior woodwork shall be painted.






Offensive odours




13


(1)
Blood from slaughtered animals shall, while still fresh, be treated so as not to become offensive.


(2)
All offensive odours arising from the handling of meat and the treating of and caring for offal, blood or any other material stored or manufactured shall be immediately extinguished and not allowed to escape into the outside air.






Pits and wells in slaughter house




14


No blood pit, dung pit or privy well shall remain or be constructed within any slaughter house, and no accumulation of any refuse whatever, when tainted or emitting a noxious odour, shall be permitted to remain in or around a slaughter house.






Removal of manure




15


The contents of any manure pit or manure pile on the premises shall be removed as often as necessary to prevent a health hazard arising.






Diseased or unfit condition




16


No animal found


(a) in a state unfit to be slaughtered for the purpose of selling its meat for human food, or


(b) in a diseased condition


shall be slaughtered for the purpose of selling its meat for human food.






Meat deemed unfit




17


Where meat is


(a) found to be diseased or unwholesome, or


(b) from


(i)  a calf less than 3 weeks old when killed,


(ii)  a lamb less than 8 weeks old when killed,


(iii)  a piglet less than 5 weeks old when killed, or


(iv)  an emaciated or wasted animal,


the meat shall not be used for human food.






No other animals




18


Animals, other than those intended for slaughter, shall not be kept in or around slaughter houses.






Animals intended for slaughter




19


Animals intended for slaughter shall not be kept for a longer period than 48 hours in or around a slaughter house.





Schedule


[en. B.C. Reg. 356/2004, s. 1 (b).]



Meat Inspection Areas




1

A meat inspection area named in column 1 is comprised of the area described opposite in column 2 as modified from time to time under the

Local Government Act

, the

Vancouver Charter

, the

Resort Municipality of Whistler Act

, the

School Act

or another Act, as the case may be.





Column 1

Name of Meat Inspection Area




Column 2

Area in Meat Inspection Area





Boundary Meat Inspection Area


The areas comprised in the boundaries of Barnston Island,

the Corporation of Delta, the City of Surrey, and the

City of White Rock.




City of Chilliwack Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Chilliwack.




City of Langley Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Langley.




Coquitlam Meat Inspection Area


The areas comprised in the boundaries of the City of Coquitlam,

the City of Port Coquitlam and the City of Port Moody.




City of New Westminster Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of New Westminster.




City of North Vancouver Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of North Vancouver.




City of Vernon Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Vernon.




District of North Vancouver Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of North Vancouver.




District of West Vancouver Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of West Vancouver.




City of Richmond Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Richmond.




Dewdney-Alouette Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the former Dewdney-Alouette

Regional District incorporated by Letters Patent issued on October 27, 1967

and amalgamated into the Fraser Valley Regional District by Letters Patent

issued on December 12, 1995.




District of Kent Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of Kent.




District of Mission Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of Mission.




Greater Victoria Meat Inspection Area


The areas comprised in the boundaries of School District No. 61 (Greater Victoria),

School District No. 62 (Sooke) and School District No. 63 (Saanich).




District of Squamish Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of Squamish.




Resort Municipality of Whistler Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the Resort Municipality of Whistler.




Sunshine Coast Regional District Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the Sunshine Coast Regional District.




South Peace Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of School District No. 59 (Peace River South).




Abbotsford Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Abbotsford.




Township of Langley Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the Township of Langley.




Village of Pemberton Meat Inspection Area


The area comprised in the boundaries of the Village of Pemberton.




[Provisions of the

Health Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 179, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: sections 8, 33]





