




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Act


Part XI: Location, Construction, Operation and Use of Aerial Tramways

B.C. Reg. 95/82





Regulation BEFORE repealed by 137/2004, effective April 1, 2004.





B.C. Reg. 95/82

Regulation of the Minister


Filed March 10, 1982






Railway Act



Part XI: Location, Construction, Operation and Use of Aerial
Tramways






Interpretation





In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395;


"aerial tramway"
means any type of transportation employing the use of cables as a
means of transportation, except vertical elevators;


"annual inspection"
means an inspection of an aerial tramway made by an inspector to
determine that the components and systems of the aerial tramway
are in proper working order and are being maintained, inspected
and tested in accordance with this regulation;


"certificate"
means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector;


"chairlift"
means any type of aerial tramway on which passengers are
transported on chairs attached to a moving rope;


"inspector"
means an Inspecting Engineer appointed pursuant to the
Railway Act
or the
Public Service Act
;


"operating inspection"
means an inspection of an aerial tramway made by an inspector to
determine compliance with this regulation respecting the operation
of the aerial tramway including, without limitation, training of
operators (attendants), performance of inspections and maintenance
by the owner, features for public safety, the keeping of records
by the owner and the carrying out of directions given by an
inspector;


"owner"
means any person, firm or corporation in possession of an aerial
tramway and includes the manager or other chief officer of such
firm or corporation;


"passenger"
means any person who uses, or intends to use, any ski lift;


"ski area operator"
means any person or partnership, corporation or other commercial
entity and their agents, officers, employees or representatives,
who has operational responsibility for any ski area or ski lifts;


"skier"
means any person present in a ski area under the control of a ski
area operator for the purpose of engaging in the sport of skiing;


"ski lift"
means any device to transport skiers or non-skiing passengers
uphill and/or downhill, at a ski area, and shall include
chairlifts, gondola lifts and rope tows as defined by the National
Standard of Canada CAN3-Z98-M78 Passenger Ropeways and "surface
lift" as defined herein;


"ski tow"
means any type of aerial tramway or rope tow which pulls skiers on
skis;


"special inspection"
means an inspection of an aerial tramway made by an inspector


(a) at the request of the owner, or as the inspector
considers necessary, following an incident involving an aerial
tramway or a modification or repair to an aerial tramway or to
witness a load test, or

(b) as required by this regulation;

"surface lift"
means a rope tow, J-bar lift, T-bar lift, platter lift or similar
devices, as defined by the National Standard of Canada
CAN3-Z98-M78 Passenger Ropeways.


[am. B.C. Regs. 285/88, s. 1; 40/91, s. 8; 27/94, s. 1.]




Extent and Application of Rules and Regulations




Extent of application



1

These rules and regulations shall govern the operation of all
aerial tramways under the legislative authority of the Province of
British Columbia.





Company responsibility



2

Every aerial tramway company will be held responsible for the
general condition of all aerial tramways under its control.





Management, repair, inspection and testing



3

The manager or officer in charge at each tramway will be held
responsible for the proper maintenance of all appurtenances under
his jurisdiction. He must know that all defects disclosed by any
inspection are properly repaired before the aerial tramway is
returned to service. Each tramway company shall appoint a
practical and experienced person to carry out repairs, inspections
and tests of the aerial tramway operated by the company. The safe
load factors for each aerial tramway shall be fixed by the Chief
Inspecting Engineer of the ministry after full consideration has
been given to the design, workmanship, age and condition.




General Inspection Rules




Inspection and acceptance test



4

Every aerial tramway must have a special inspection and submit to
an acceptance test before it is commissioned for the carriage of
traffic, and an inspector's report must record the results of the
inspection and test.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Inspection after 2 years of disuse



5

(1)  An aerial tramway that has not been used for the
carriage of traffic for 2 or more consecutive years must have a
special inspection and an inspector may, as a part of the special
inspection, order a load test.


(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1), an aerial tramway
that receives an annual inspection is considered to have been
operated for the carriage of traffic during the calendar year.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Reporting of defects



6

Every maintenance supervisor must inform an inspector of any
defects that the supervisor knows or believes exist in an aerial
tramway under the care and control of the supervisor.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Inspector may examine tramway and records



7

An inspector has the right, at all reasonable hours, to examine
the aerial tramway and the records and drawings of the owner that
pertain to the operation and maintenance of the aerial tramway.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Inspector may require information



8

In order to determine the adequacy of a component or a group of
components, an inspector may require that information respecting
drawings, specifications, tests or inspection reports be provided
by qualified persons.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Inspector may order removal of component for examination



9

An inspector may order that a component of a passenger aerial
tramway be removed for examination in order to satisfy the
inspector as to its condition.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Inspector may order traffic stopped



10

An inspector may order that the carriage of traffic be
discontinued until the inspector is satisfied that the aerial
tramway is reasonably free from danger to persons operating or
using it.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]




Records to be kept on site



11

All records and logs required by CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z98-M91 must
be kept on site and made available to an inspector on request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Annual Inspection




Annual inspection



12

(1)  Every operating aerial tramway must have an annual
inspection at least once in each calendar year, and an inspector's
report must record the results of the inspection.


(2)  The date of the annual inspection under subsection (1)
must be established by agreement between an inspector and the
owner.


(3)  If the owner cancels the annual inspection or fails to
have the aerial tramway operable for the annual inspection, the
aerial tramway must have a special inspection.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Certificate of Inspection




Certificate of inspection



13

(1)  An owner that operates an aerial tramway must not carry
traffic on the aerial tramway without a valid certificate.


(2)  An inspector must, on payment by the owner of the
applicable fee set out in section 17, issue a certificate for each
passenger aerial tramway that, after an annual inspection or a
special inspection, is found to be reasonably free from danger to
persons operating or using it.


(3)  Unless otherwise stated on a certificate of annual
inspection, the certificate is valid until the earlier of


(a) December 31 of the year following the year in which the
certificate was issued, and


(b) the issuance of a subsequent certificate for the same
aerial tramway.


(4)  The currently valid certificate of annual inspection
must be displayed in a place open to public view.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Conditions of a Certificate




Conditions of a certificate



14

(1)  A certificate of annual inspection may impose conditions
on an owner including restrictions on the operation of the aerial
tramway.


(2)  The inspector's report made under section 12 (1) is
considered to be a part of the certificate.


(3)  A suspension of operations ordered by an inspector
remains in effect until the inspector is satisfied that the aerial
tramway is reasonably free from danger to persons operating or
using it.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Operating Inspection




Operating inspection



15

An operating inspection may be conducted at any time at the
discretion of an inspector.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Directions of an Inspector




Compliance with inspector's directions



16

If an inspector has issued an order or direction, the owner must
report to the inspector when it has complied with the order or
direction.

[en. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 2.]



Fees




Fees



17

Fees for the issuance of a certificate for each aerial tramway
shall be payable to the Minister of Finance and Corporate
Relations, care of the Chief Inspecting Engineer, by the owner of
each aerial tramway in accordance with the following table:




Table of Fees





Type of Aerial Tramway


Class



Special Inspection and

Certification including

approval of all

engineering




Each subsequent

annual inspection and

certification





Reversible aerial tramways with one or more gondolas,

cabins or conveyances

I
$1 500
$500



Gondola lifts and chairlifts with or without detachable
chairs,

cabins, gondolas or other conveyances

II
$750
$300


Surface lifts, including J-bars, T-bars and poma lifts
III
$200
$100


Rope tows
IV
$50
$25





[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 6 (a); 27/94, s. 3.]




Fees for further inspection or advice



18

In cases of defects requiring repairs that render another
inspection necessary within the year, or when an Inspecting
Engineer acts in an advisory capacity, a fee of $200 per day and
expenses will be charged.

[am. B.C. Reg. 172/87, s. 6 (b).]



Approval of Plans, Profiles and Specifications of Aerial Tramways




Route map



19

The company shall prepare and submit to the minister, in
duplicate, a map showing the general location of the proposed
aerial tramway, places through which the tramway is to pass,
giving the names thereof, and railways, navigable streams, and
tidewaters (if any) to be crossed by said aerial tramway. Such map
shall be prepared on a scale of not less than 200 feet to the
inch, or upon other such appropriate scale as the minister may
determine, and shall be accompanied by an application in
duplicate, requesting the minister's approval of the general
location as shown on the said map. Such map shall be signed by the
president, vice president or general manager of the company.




Location Plan and Profile




Location plan and profile



20

(1)  After the minister approves the map described in Rule
19, the company shall make a location plan and profile of the
aerial tramway signed by


(a) the president of the company or the vice president or
general manager of the company, and


(b) the British Columbia Professional Engineer or B.C. Land
Surveyor employed by the company to make the location plan and
profile.

(2)  The location plan shall show
(a) contours,
(b) the location of the aerial tramway,
(c) the terminals of the aerial tramway,
(d) the towers of the aerial tramway,

(e) the watercourses, highways, roads, railway and other
utility crossings proposed to be crossed or affected by the aerial
tramway, and

(f) bearings and chainage.

(3)  The profile, which may be included on the location plan,
shall show

(a) the location of the aerial tramway,
(b) the terminals of the aerial tramway,
(c) the towers of the aerial tramway,

(d) the watercourses, highways, roads, railways and other
utility crossings proposed to be crossed or affected by the aerial
tramway, and

(e) elevations and chainage.

(4)  The datum to be used where possible shall be sea level.


(5)  The scale for the location plan shall not be more than
200 feet to the inch.


(6)  The horizontal scale and the vertical scale in the
profile shall be the same.


(7)  The scale for the profile shall not be more than 60 feet
to the inch.


(8)  The profile shall be prepared from a closing survey and
shall include pertinent field notes.


(9)  The profile drawing and field notes shall be signed and
dated by the British Columbia Land Surveyor or British Columbia
Professional Engineer who made the closing survey and prepared the
field notes.





No construction until approval of plans and profiles by minister



21

The company shall not commence construction of the aerial tramway
or of any section or portion thereof until the plans and profiles
described in the last preceding sections have been submitted to
and sanctioned by the minister.





Prints and plans may be made after approval affixed



22

When necessary prints of plans and profiles will be made from the
tracing after the minister's approval has been affixed thereto.





Terminals and intermediate towers



23

Detail plans and cross sections shall be submitted to the Chief
Inspecting Engineer for wooden or steel terminals and intermediate
towers. Such plans shall show the proposed type of construction,
including dimensions of material in substructure and
superstructure. The location and foundations showing the proposed
type of construction, including dimensions of material in
substructure and superstructure, shall also be shown on the plan.




Approval of Appliances and Appurtenances




Approval of appliances and appurtenances



24

Working drawings of all mechanical details and appurtenances with
respect to the construction, modification and operation of the
aerial tramway shall be submitted in duplicate to the inspector.
The as built drawings and technical specifications must be
provided and accepted for filing by an inspector prior to the
inspection or acceptance test.

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2002, s. 1.]




Wire ropes and cables



25

(1)  A manufacturer's certificate, properly signed and
notarized shall be submitted to the Chief Inspecting Engineer for
every travelling or track wire rope on which passengers are
carried or upon which depends the safety of any aerial tramway
operation. Such certificate shall show the specification of
material used in the wire which the rope is manufactured, the
tensile strength of the wire, the ultimate strength of the rope,
the lay and type of construction used in the rope and all other
pertinent data with respect thereto.


(2)  The ultimate strength shall be established by a pull
test to destruction of a specimen cut from the length of rope to
be installed; an approved testing agency shall supply a
certificate of such test stating also the manner and location of a
break.


(3)  To provide a reference standard, all haul ropes and
track ropes (except as noted below) shall, prior to performance of
the tramway acceptance test, be examined by an electromagnetic
testing apparatus or other approved non-destructive testing
system. The cable shall be so tested after being permanently
installed and, where practical, after being subjected to one day
of continuous operation. (Exempted from this requirement are haul
ropes on T-Bars, and on all devices whereby passengers are at all
times in contact with the ground or the snow.)




Standard Code to Govern Aerial Tramways




Standard code to govern aerial tramways



26

Except as otherwise provided in this regulation, the standard
governing the design, manufacture, construction, modification,
testing, operation, maintenance and inspection of aerial tramways
(also referred to as passenger ropeways) and appurtenances to them
shall be CSA Standard CAN/CSA Z98-01 Passenger Ropeways and
Conveyors and CSA supplement CAN/CSA Z98S1-02. Appendices A, B, C,
D, E, F, G, H, J and K of the Standard are mandatory.

[en. B.C. Reg. 264/2003.]




Training of attendants



27

Attendants shall be properly trained as to the handling of the
public and operating the apparatus and shall have written an
examination as to their general knowledge of the rules and the
proper handling of the public and the company shall have on file
written evidence that the foregoing has been complied with.




Duties of Ski Area Operators — Ski Lift Signs




Responsibility for posting and maintaining signs



28

A ski area operator shall be responsible for posting and
maintaining all signs required by the
Railway Act
, the regulations made pursuant to it, and the standard set out in
section 26.

[en. B.C. Reg. 285/88, s. 3.]




Passengers presumed to understand signs



29

Evidence that signs required by section 28 were present at the
beginning of the ski lift operation on any given day raises a
presumption that all passengers using said devices have seen and
understood said signs.




Duties of Passengers




No use without ability and understanding



30

No passenger shall use a ski lift if he does not have sufficient
physical dexterity, ability and knowledge to negotiate or use such
facility safely or until such passenger has asked for and received
information sufficient to enable him to use the equipment safely.
A passenger is required to follow any written or verbal
instructions that are given to him regarding the use of ski lifts.





Rules of use for passengers



31

No passenger shall


(a) embark upon or disembark from a ski lift except at a
designated area,


(b) throw, expel or drop any object from any ski lift while
riding on such device, except as permitted by the operator,


(c) act, while riding on a ski lift, in any manner that may
interfere with proper or safe operation of such ski lift,


(d) engage in any type of conduct that may contribute to or
cause injury to any person,


(e) place in an uphill track of a surface lift any object
that could cause another skier to fall,


(f) embark upon a ski lift marked as closed, or


(g) disobey any instructions posted in accordance with this
Act or any verbal instructions by the ski area operator regarding
the proper or safe use of a ski lift unless such verbal
instructions are contrary to this Act.





Disembarkation



32

Passengers shall clear the unloading area immediately upon
disembarkation from a ski lift.





Crossing uphill track of surface lift



33

A skier shall not cross the uphill track of a surface lift except
at locations designated by the operator and then only crossing in
such a manner as to avoid collision with passengers and the
surface lift itself.





Impairment by drugs or alcohol



34

A passenger shall not enter the marshalling area or move uphill on
any ski lift when his ability to do so is impaired by the
consumption of alcohol or by the use of any narcotic or other
drug.




Electrical Safety Regulations




Compliance with electrical safety regulations



35

Except as otherwise provided, all electrical wiring on an
apparatus shall comply with the current regulations as set forth
under the
Electrical Safety Act
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 27/94, s. 4.]



Fire Protection




Upper and lower terminals



36

The upper and lower terminal of every aerial tramway shall be
equipped with at least one approved type fire extinguisher,
properly maintained.





Engine and motor rooms



37

Engine rooms and motor rooms in conjunction with aerial tramway
drives shall be equipped with at least one approved type fire
extinguisher, properly maintained.




Company Bylaws, Rules and Regulations




Company may make bylaws and rules



38

The company may, subject to the provisions and restrictions of the
Railway Act
, make bylaws, rules or regulations with respect to the operation
of its aerial tramways.




Obligations and Penalties




Penalty for known unsafe construction or repairs



39

Any person who constructs an aerial tramway, or any part of an
aerial tramway, or who makes any repairs to same, such
construction or repairs being known to be defective, shall be
liable to a penalty of not exceeding $300.





Penalty for operation of uncertified tramway



40

Any person operating an aerial tramway, as well as the owner or
lessee thereof, in case the same is being operated with his
consent, without there being an unexpired certificate of
inspection thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $100 a day for
each and every day that he shall operate such uncertified aerial
tramway, except in such cases where the owner has made a request
in writing to an inspector to have such aerial tramway examined,
but for good and valid reasons such inspection has not been made.





Penalty for operation of unsafe tramway



41

It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any aerial
tramway pronounced by the inspector as unsafe to cease to use the
same until such repairs as are indicated by the inspector are
made, and in case of failure to comply with the requirements of
the inspector, the person owning or leasing, as well as the person
operating any such aerial tramway shall be liable to a penalty of
not less than $300 and shall also be liable for any damage to
person or property resulting therefrom.





Offence against regulations



42

Every company guilty of an infraction of any of these rules, or
failure to discharge any duty imposed upon it by any of these
rules, shall be liable pursuant to Part 45 of the
Railway Act
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 285/88, s. 4.]


[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 271]





