




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Residential Tenancy Act

Residential Tenancy Regulation
B.C. Reg. 125/2001





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 477/2003, effective January 1,
2004.





B.C. Reg. 125/2001

O.C. 483/2001


Deposited April 19, 2001






Residential Tenancy Act


Residential Tenancy Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation "Act" means the
Residential Tenancy Act
.




Part 1 - General




Prescribed amount per day



2

The prescribed amount per day for the purposes of paragraph (b) of
the definition of "hotel tenant" in section 1 of the Act is $20.





Security deposit interest



3

Pursuant to section 23 (3) of the Act, the rate of interest that
under section 22 of the Act is payable to a tenant on a security
deposit is


(a) during the 11 months commencing on February 1, 1987, 4.5%
below the prime lending rate of the principal banker to the
Province on January 1, 1987, compounded annually, and


(b) during the one year period commencing on January 1, 1988
and during each successive one year period beginning on January 1
in each year, 4.5% below the prime lending rate of the principal
banker to the Province on the first day of that one year period,
compounded annually.





Designation under section 24 (6) of the Act



4

The following persons are designated for the purposes of section
24 (6) (b) of the Act:


(a) the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation;

(b) the City of Vancouver;

(c) the City of Vancouver Public Housing Corporation;


(d) the Greater Vancouver Housing Corporation;

(e) the Capital Region Housing Corporation;

(f) any housing society or non-profit municipal housing
corporation that has an agreement to operate residential premises,
if the rent of the premises is related to the tenant's income,
with

(i)  the government of British Columbia,

(ii)  the British Columbia Housing Management Commission, or


(iii)  the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation.





Notice of rent increase for manufactured home pad



5

(1)  For the purpose of section 24 (4) of the Act, a landlord
must


(a) give a tenant a notice of rent increase in the form
approved by the director, and


(b) within 7 days after giving the tenant the notice of rent
increase, file a copy of the notice with the director.


(2)  A landlord who contravenes subsection (1) (b) commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a penalty of $500.





Moving expenses



6

(1)  The maximum prescribed amount under section 32 (3) of
the Act is 15 months rent.


(2)  The maximum prescribed amount under section 38 (11) of
the Act is $10 000.


(3)  The maximum prescribed amount under section 40 (3) of
the Act is 6 months rent.





Limits on notice to end a residential tenancy



7

(1)  Every tenancy agreement is deemed to include these
terms:


(a) the landlord may give notice under section 38 (5) of the
Act only with the prior approval, by bylaw, of the municipality in
which the premises are located;


(b) provisions of the tenancy agreement are inoperative
insofar as they allow the landlord to give notice under section 38
(5) of the Act except in accordance with a bylaw described in
paragraph (a);


(c) the tenancy agreement is not frustrated by the inclusion
or operation of the terms described in paragraphs (a) and (b).


(2)  For the purposes of this section
"municipality"
includes

(a) the City of Vancouver, and

(b) in respect of any electoral area that is not itself a
municipality, the regional district within which the electoral
area is located.





Fee for designation of arbitrator



8

For the purpose of section 49 (2) of the Act, the fee payable on
application to the director to designate an arbitrator is $50.





Fee for a review hearing



9

(1)  An applicant for a review hearing under section 59 of
the Act must pay a fee of $25 to the director with the
application.


(2)  The director may waive payment of the fee if the
director considers that the applicant cannot reasonably afford to
pay the fee.





Mediation fee



10

For the purposes of section 69 (1) of the Act, the fee for
mediation of a dispute by the Manufactured Home Park Dispute
Resolution Committee is $50.





Chair may refuse to appoint dispute resolution subcommittee



11

For the purposes of section 69 (3.1) of the Act, the chair of the
dispute resolution committee may refuse to appoint a dispute
resolution subcommittee if


(a) the parties have already attempted to resolve the dispute
through mediation or another non-binding dispute resolution
process,


(b) a decision by an arbitrator or court on the dispute would
clarify an important question of legal interpretation or public
policy, or


(c) it is materially impracticable or unfair to require one
or more of the parties to attend at mediation.




Part 2 - Abandonment of Personal Property




Abandonment of personal property



12

(1)  A landlord may consider that a tenant has abandoned
personal property if


(a) the tenant leaves the personal property in residential
premises that he or she has given up possession of or that he or
she has vacated after the tenancy agreement has ended or after the
term of the tenancy agreement has expired, or

(b) the tenant

(i)  leaves the personal property in residential premises


(A)  that, for a continuous period of one month, the tenant
has not ordinarily occupied and remained in possession of, and in
respect of which he or she has not paid rent, or


(B)  from which the tenant has removed substantially all of
his or her personal property, and

(ii)  either

(A)  gives the landlord an express oral or written notice of
the tenant's intention not to return to the residential premises,
or


(B)  by reason of the facts and circumstances surrounding the
giving up of the residential premises, could not reasonably be
expected to return to the residential premises.


(2)  If a landlord considers that a tenant has abandoned any
personal property, the landlord may remove the personal property
from the residential premises, and on removal must deal with it in
accordance with the common law or with this Part.


(3)  Subsection (2) does not apply if a landlord and tenant
have made an express agreement to the contrary respecting the
storage of personal property.


(4)  For the purposes of this section,
"residential premises"
includes an area on the residential property where a tenant has
stored personal property.





Powers and duties of the landlord



13

(1)  If the landlord chooses to deal with the tenant's
personal property in accordance with this Part, he or she must


(a) store it in a safe place and manner for a period of not
less than 3 months following the date of removal,

(b) keep an inventory of the property, and

(c) keep particulars of the disposition of the property for 2
years following the date of disposition.


(2)  Despite subsection (1) (a), if a landlord is entitled to
remove personal property under this section and reasonably
believes

(a) the property has no value,

(b) the cost of removing, storing and selling the property
would be more than the proceeds of its sale, or


(c) the storage of the property would be unsanitary or
unsafe,


the landlord may dispose of the property in a commercially
reasonable manner.





Claim for abandoned property



14

(1)  If a tenant claims his or her personal property at any
time before it is disposed of under section 13 or 17, the landlord
may, before returning the property, require the tenant


(a) to reimburse the landlord for his or her reasonable costs
of


(i)  removing and storing the property, and


(ii)  making an application permitted and search required to
be made under section 15, and


(b) to satisfy any amounts payable to the landlord by the
tenant under this Act or the tenancy agreement.


(2)  Subject to sections 15, 16 and 17, if a tenant makes a
claim under subsection (1), but does not pay the landlord the
amount the landlord requires, as permitted under that subsection,
the landlord may dispose of the property under this Part as if the
tenant had not made a claim.





Notice and search for encumbrances



15

(1)  For the purposes of this section:


"financing statement"
has the same meaning as in the
Personal Property Security Act
;


"security interest"
has the same meaning as in the
Personal Property Security Act
;


"serial number"
has the same meaning as in section 12 (3) of the Personal Property
Security Regulation made under the
Personal Property Security Act
.


(2)  Not less than 30 days before disposing of an item of
personal property referred to in section 12, the landlord must


(a) give notice of disposition to any person who


(i)  has registered a financing statement in the Personal
Property Registry using the name of the tenant or the serial
number of the property,


(ii)  is registered as an owner of a manufactured home in the
Manufactured Home Registry, if the property is a manufactured
home, and


(iii)  to the knowledge of the landlord, claims an interest
in the property, and


(b) publish an advertisement in a newspaper published in the
area in which the residential premises are situated.


(3)  The notice referred to in subsection (2) must contain

(a) the name of the tenant,

(b) a description of the property to be sold,


(c) the address of the residential premises,


(d) the address where the property is being stored, if other
than the address referred to in paragraph (b),


(e) the name and address of the landlord, and


(f) a statement that unless the person being notified takes
possession of the property, establishes a right to possession of
it or makes an application to the court to establish the right
within 30 days from the date the notice is given to the person,
the landlord will sell the property.


(4)  The notice referred to in subsection (2) may be given in
accordance with section 72 of the
Personal Property Security Act
or, if it is to be given to a person who has registered a
financing statement in the Personal Property Registry or who is a
registered owner of a manufactured home, by registered mail
addressed to the address of the person to whom it is to be given
as it appears on the financing statement or in the records of the
Manufactured Home Registry, as the case may be.


(5)  A landlord is not required to comply with subsection (2)
where the apparent value of the property is less than $200.


(6)  A court may, on application, determine the value of the
property for the purposes of subsection (5).





Encumbrances



16

(1)  When a notice referred to in section 15 (2) has been
served on a person who has a security interest or other interest
that secures payment or performance of an obligation, the tenant
or other person owing payment or performance of the obligation is
deemed to be in default.


(2)  Before taking possession of the property, a person
mentioned in subsection (1) or any other person with a right to
possession of the property must pay to the landlord moving and
storage charges incurred by the landlord acting under section 13.





Disposal of personal property



17

(1)  If a property mentioned in section 12 is dealt with as
provided in section 13, the landlord may dispose of it in a
commercially reasonable manner unless, during the 3 months
referred to in section 13,


(a) a person referred to in section 15 who has been given a
notice as provided in that section has taken or demanded
possession of the property,


(b) a person who has an interest in the property has taken or
demanded possession of the property, or


(c) a person claiming an interest in the property has made an
application under subsection (5) or has brought an action to
establish his or her interest in or right to possession of the
goods and the landlord has been notified of the application or
action.


(2)  If a landlord sells personal property under subsection
(1), he or she may retain proceeds of the sale sufficient to


(a) reimburse the landlord for his or her reasonable costs of


(i)  removing, storing, advertising and disposing of the
property, and


(ii)  making an application permitted and search required to
be made under section 15, and


(b) satisfy any amounts payable to the landlord by the tenant
under this Act or a tenancy agreement,


and must pay the balance to the Public Guardian and Trustee who
must hold it for 2 years in trust for any person with an interest
in the property.


(3)  If personal property is sold in accordance with this
Part, the purchaser of the personal property acquires a marketable
title free of all encumbrances.


(4)  A landlord of a manufactured home pad who sells an
abandoned manufactured home under this Part must, on request of
the purchaser, provide the purchaser with an affidavit in the form
of the Appendix.


(5)  On the application of an interested person, a court may
make an order


(a) prohibiting or postponing disposition of the property
under this section on any conditions the court considers
appropriate,


(b) determining the right of a person claiming an interest in
or right to possession of the property or the right of the
landlord to dispose of it, or


(c) that an action be brought or an issue be tried.





Public Guardian and Trustee



18

(1)  If a landlord pays money to the Public Guardian and
Trustee under section 17, the landlord must give the Public
Guardian and Trustee a copy of the inventory of the personal
property disposed of and written particulars of the disposition.


(2)  If a tenant or other person with an interest in the
property sold under section 17 does not claim an interest in the
money paid to the Public Guardian and Trustee within 2 years after
the payment, the money is forfeited to the government.





Duty of care — abandoned property



19

When dealing with a tenant's personal property under this Part, a
landlord must exercise reasonable care and caution required by the
nature of the property and the circumstances to ensure that the
property does not deteriorate and is not damaged, lost or stolen
as a result of an inappropriate method of removal or an unsuitable
place of storage.




Part 3 - Manufactured Home Parks




Definitions



20

In this Part:


"dispute resolution committee"
means the Manufactured Home Park Dispute Resolution Committee
referred to in section 67 of the Act;


"local park committee"
means a local park committee referred to in section 66 of the Act;


"park"
means a location at which a landlord rents or offers to rent one
or more manufactured home pads;


"tenant"
means a tenant in a park who has entered into a tenancy agreement
with the landlord of the park.





Notice



21

(1)  A tenant or a member of a local park committee may
request that a landlord supply a list of the names and addresses
of tenants if the request is for the purpose of giving a notice
under this Part.


(2)  The landlord may charge a maximum of $10 for the list of
tenants.


(3)  The landlord must supply the list within 2 weeks of
receiving the request.





Establishment of a local park committee



22

(1)  To establish a local park committee under section 66 of
the Act, the landlord or a tenant of a park must call a meeting of
the tenants and the landlord to


(a) vote on whether to establish a local park committee, and


(b) if it is decided to establish a local park committee, to
vote for the elected members of the local park committee.


(2)  The person who calls the meeting must give written
notice of the meeting to each tenant and to the landlord at least
2 weeks before the meeting.

(3)  The notice of meeting must

(a) contain a copy of section 66 of the Act and of Part 3 of
the regulation,

(b) set out
(i)  the purpose of the meeting, and

(ii)  the time, date and place of the meeting, and


(c) name the person who is giving the notice.


(4)  The meeting may not be held unless the landlord, and
tenants representing a majority of the manufactured homes in the
park, are present in person or by proxy.

(5)  At the meeting

(a) the person who called the meeting must hold a vote to
determine who will chair the meeting and who will keep minutes of
the meeting,


(b) the elected chair must hold a vote on whether to have a
local park committee and, if it is decided to have a local park
committee, must hold an election for the elected members of that
committee, and


(c) the person who keeps the minutes must turn them over, at
the end of the meeting, to a member of the local park committee,
if one has been established.


(6)  If either the meeting is not held because there is no
quorum or the proposal for a local park committee is defeated, 60
days must elapse before another meeting may be held to consider
the establishment of a local park committee.





Who sits on a local park committee?



23

A local park committee must consist of


(a) the landlord of the park or an individual nominated by
the landlord, and


(b) not fewer than 2 and not more than 5 tenants who
ordinarily reside in the park.





Voting at meetings of tenants and landlord



24

(1)  This section applies to a vote at a meeting to establish
a local park committee under section 22 and to a vote at an annual
meeting under section 27.


(2)  A person may vote in person or by proxy.


(3)  Only one tenant of each manufactured home pad is
eligible to vote and only one landlord is eligible to vote.


(4)  A vote must be by secret ballot if a resolution in
favour of a secret ballot is passed.


(5)  To decide to establish a local park committee


(a) a majority of tenants who are present in person or by
proxy must vote in favour of establishing the committee, and


(b) the landlord must vote in favour of establishing the
committee.


(6)  To elect a member of a local park committee a majority
of tenants who are present in person or by proxy must vote in
favour of the election and the landlord is not eligible to vote in
the election.


(7)  An abstention is not counted in determining whether
there is a majority.





Term of local park committee member



25

(1)  The term of office of an elected local park committee
member ends at the end of the annual meeting at which the new
local park committee is elected.


(2)  A person whose term as local park committee member has
ended is eligible for reelection.





Removing or replacing a local park committee member



26

(1)  A member of a local park committee other than the
landlord or the landlord's nominated representative may be removed
for cause by the unanimous agreement of all of the remaining
members of the local park committee before the expiry of his or
her term of office.


(2)  If a member of a local park committee other than the
landlord or the landlord's nominated representative is removed or
is unwilling or unable to act for an extended period, the
remaining members of the local park committee must call a meeting
of tenants to elect a replacement for the remainder of the term
according to the procedure set out in section 27 (2) to (5).





Annual meeting and election



27

(1)  The local park committee must hold an annual meeting to
discuss park issues and to elect the elected members of the
committee.


(2)  The local park committee must give at least 2 weeks
notice of the meeting by sending a written notice to the landlord
and to each tenant.


(3)  The notice must set out the purpose of the meeting, and
the time, date and place of the meeting.


(4)  A member of the local park committee must record the
minutes of the annual meeting.

(5)  The meeting may not be held unless

(a) the landlord is present in person or by proxy, and


(b) tenants of at least one third of the manufactured home
pads in the park are present in person or by proxy.





Notice required



28

A local park committee must give written notice to the dispute
resolution committee of the names of the members of the local park
committee within 30 days of their becoming members.





Decisions of a local park committee



29

A local park committee must make its decisions by unanimous
agreement of all members of the committee subject to section 30
(8).





Local park committee may put rule to a vote by landlord and
tenants of park



30

(1)  If the members of the local park committee do not agree
on a proposal to make, change, repeal or replace a rule they may,
by unanimous agreement, refer the proposal to a vote of the
landlord and the tenants of the park.


(2)  To refer the proposal to a vote of the landlord and the
tenants of the park, the local park committee must deliver a
written notice of the proposal to the landlord and each tenant.

(3)  The notice of the proposal must

(a) advise that only one landlord may vote and only one
tenant from each manufactured home pad may vote,

(b) set out the proposal,
(c) include a ballot,

(d) advise that the landlord or tenant may vote by returning
the enclosed ballot to the local park committee indicating whether
he or she is in favour of or against the proposal,


(e) advise that a failure to vote will count as a vote in
favour of the proposal,


(f) set out the address where the landlord or tenant should
deliver the vote, and


(g) set out the date by which the vote must be received by
the local park committee, which date must be at least 2 weeks
after the notice is delivered to the tenant.

(4)  The proposal passes by majority vote.

(5)  An eligible voter who does not vote must be counted as
voting in favour of the proposal.


(6)  Only one landlord is eligible to vote and only one
tenant for each manufactured home pad is eligible to vote.


(7)  A person may vote in person or by proxy.


(8)  A vote under this section must be by secret ballot if a
resolution in favour of a secret ballot is passed at a meeting of
the local park committee by a majority vote of the members of the
local park committee.


(9)  The local park committee must make, change, repeal or
replace a rule in accordance with a proposal that receives a
majority vote under this section.





Dispute resolution



31

(1)  To assist in the resolution of disputes under section 66
of the Act, the local park committee may canvass tenants for their
opinions.


(2)  In canvassing for opinions under subsection (1), the
local park committee may not release any information concerning a
particular dispute unless all the parties to the dispute agree.


(3)  If a local park committee is assisting in the resolution
of a dispute under section 66 (8) of the Act and the dispute
remains unresolved after being discussed at one meeting of the
local park committee, the local park committee must advise the
parties in dispute of the availability of mediation services
provided by the dispute resolution committee.





Notice of meetings of local park committee



32

(1)  Any member of the local park committee may call a
meeting by giving the other members at least one week's notice of
the meeting.


(2)  The notice does not have to be in writing.


(3)  The meeting may be held on less than one week's notice
if all members consent.





Local park committee quorum



33

No business may be conducted at a meeting of a local park
committee unless the following members are present:


(a) the landlord or the individual nominated by the landlord;


(b) at least 2 elected members who are tenants.





Rules and minutes



34

(1)  The local park committee must


(a) keep minutes of local park committee meetings and of
annual meetings, and


(b) make a copy of a rule made by the local park committee
and the minutes of any meeting, including the meeting establishing
the local park committee, available to a landlord or tenant on
request.


(2)  The local park committee may charge 25 cents per page
for a copy of the minutes.





Tenants may attend meeting



35

Tenants may attend a meeting of the local park committee unless a
member of the committee objects.




Appendix


(Section 17 (4))



Affidavit of Abandonment and Sale of a Manufactured Home



I,
.................................................................................................................................,
residing at
............................................................................................................................................................................


in the Province of British Columbia, MAKE OATH AND SAY AS FOLLOWS:





1


I am the landlord of
........................................................................................
manufactured home park, hereinafter referred to as "the Park".




2


A manufactured home registered in the Manufactured Home
Registry under #.............., hereinafter referred to as
"the manufactured home" and located on pad #............... in
the Park, was left in the Park by
........................................................ and
..........................................................,
tenants of the Park, in circumstances amounting to
abandonment.




3


On determining that the manufactured home had been abandoned I
chose to deal with it pursuant to Part 2 of the Residential
Tenancy Regulation, B.C. Reg. 125/2001.




4


After complying with the requirements of Part 2 of the
Residential Tenancy Regulation, B.C. Reg. 125/2001, I sold the
manufactured home to
......................................................... and
.......................................................... on
............................., 20...... .




5


This affidavit is made for the purpose of establishing that
.................................................... and
......................................................
has/have acquired a marketable title to the manufactured home,
free of all encumbrances.




SWORN BEFORE ME AT .......................
British Columbia this ..................... day of

..................................................., 20........ .





...................................................................



...................................................................




A Commissioner for Taking Affidavits

in British Columbia


Landlord




Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 26/81.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Residential Tenancy Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 406, sections 49 (2) (c), 66, 69 and 90]





