




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Vancouver Charter



City of Vancouver Council Electronic Meetings Regulation


B.C. Reg. 42/2012







Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 242/2021, effective September 29, 2021.





B.C. Reg. 42/2012


O.C. 124/2012



Deposited March 8, 2012







Vancouver Charter




City of Vancouver Council Electronic Meetings Regulation








Definition





1



In this regulation,

"special Council meeting"

means a Council meeting other than a regular meeting or an adjourned
meeting.








Electronic meetings authorized





2



(1)


If the requirements in subsection (2) are met,






(a)


a special Council meeting may be conducted by means of electronic or other communications facilities, or






(b)


a member of Council or a Council committee who is unable to attend a council meeting or a Council committee meeting, as
applicable, may participate in the meeting by means of electronic or other communications facilities.






(2)


The following apply in relation to a Council meeting referred to in subsection (1):






(a)


the meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable procedure prescribed by bylaw under section 164.1 of the

Vancouver Charter

;






(b)


the facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or watch and hear, each other;






(c)


for a special Council meeting referred to in subsection (1) (a),






(i)


the notice under section 164.1 (1) of the

Vancouver Charter

must include notice of the way in which the
meeting is to be conducted and the place where the public may attend to hear the proceedings that are open to the public,
and






(ii)


except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and
hear, the meeting at the specified place, and a person designated by the city must be in attendance at the specified
place;






(d)


for a meeting referred to in subsection (1) (b), except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the facilities
must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the member participating by means of electronic or other communications
facilities.






(3)


Members of Council or a Council committee who are participating under this section in a meeting conducted in accordance with
this section are deemed to be present at the meeting.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Vancouver Charter

, S.B.C. 1953, c. 55, section
164.1]





