




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Railway Act



Part VIII: City Streetcar Equipment and Operation Regulations


B.C. Reg. 459/59







Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 459/59


O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003


1











Railway Act




Part VIII: City Streetcar Equipment and Operation Regulations








Interpretation




1


In these regulations:



"company"

means a street railway company;



"inspector"

means an inspector of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs;



"ministry"

means Ministry of Municipal Affairs.






Modern and efficient




2


Every company shall provide and cause to be used on all trains and cars modern and efficient apparatus, appliances and means:


(a)

Communication

— to provide immediate communication between the conductor while in any streetcar or any car of a passenger train and the motorman or engineer;


(b)

Brakes

— to check at will the speed of the train or car and bring same safely to a standstill as expeditiously as possible, and, except under circumstances of sudden danger or emergency, without causing undue discomfort to passengers (if any) on the train or car.






Drive wheel brake




3


Such apparatus, appliances and means for the checking of speed or the stopping of any train or car shall include a power drive wheel brake and appliances for operating the train brake system upon the locomotive, motor or car.






Power or train brakes




4


There shall also be such a number of cars in every train equipped with power or train brakes that the engineer or motorman on the locomotive or motor drawing such train can control its speed or bring the train to a stop in the quickest and best manner possible, without requiring conductor to use the common handbrake for that purpose, except in a case of emergency.






Continuous instantaneous action




5


Upon all trains and cars carrying passengers such system of brakes shall be continuous, instantaneous in action, and capable of being applied at will by the engineer, motorman or any trainman, and the brakes must be self applying in the event of any failure in the continuity of their action, except in single end and double end 2 men streetcars.






Height of drawbars




6


Every company shall adopt and use upon all its rolling stock such height of drawbars as the inspector determines in accordance with any standard from time to time adopted by competent railway authorities.






Delay may be allowed for compliance




7


The inspector may, upon good cause shown, from time to time grant delay from complying with the provisions of these regulations.


(a) to provide every car with a type of fender and truck guard approved by the inspector;





Equipment and Appliances for Passenger Cars Operating on City Streets





Modern and efficient




8


Every company shall provide and cause to be used on all cars modern and efficient apparatus, appliances and means:


(a) to provide every car with a type of fender and truck guard approved by the inspector;


(b) to provide every car with a window guard to be made of wire screen, mesh of screen to be not more than 2 inches, height of screen to be not less than 18 inches. Screens to be from front vestibule to rear vestibule on devel-strip side with single end cars and both sides with double end cars: This does not apply to P.C.C. cars which are provided with an approved type of protection;


(c) to equip every car with sanding device for sanding rail;


(d) to provide every car with signboards designating route number and route upon which car is operating. Signboards to be placed in front of car where they can be seen by night or day;


(e) to provide casing on vestibules of car where buffers overlap vestibules; casing to be made which will prevent persons from standing on it;


(f) to equip every car with window wipers of approved pattern;


(g) city streetcars must be equipped with platform doors or gates, to be so placed that when closed the steps of cars will not be accessible to the public from the street; these gates or doors to be closed before cars are in motion and not opened until cars have come to complete stop;


(h) the height of step on city streetcars from the top of rail to the first step must not exceed 16 inches;


(i) the carrying capacity of streetcars in addition to the seating capacity shall be in normal hours on the basis of 50% of the seating capacity and in rush hours on the basis of 4 square feet for each and every standing passenger;


(j) plans must be submitted to the ministry for approval, giving the seating capacity and dimensions of floor space of all cars.






Equipment of city streetcars




9


Every streetcar or train of streetcars run or operated in any city shall be provided with at least one gong or bell to be used as a signal or warning of the approach of such car or train; and it shall be the duty of the motorman or person controlling the motive power on any car or train, when approaching any street crossing at which a stop will not be made, to ring or sound such gong or bell within a distance not exceeding 60 feet from such crossing; and it shall also be the duty of such motorman or person controlling the motive power of any streetcar to sound or ring such gong or bell whenever such person shall have reason to believe that there is danger of such car or train colliding with or running against any person, vehicle or any animal or obstruction:


(a) when streetcars are stopped at street intersections, before car is started motorman must sound gong;


(b) where streetcar lines intersect, streetcars approaching such intersection must be under control and prepared to stop;


(c) before passing car that is receiving or letting off passengers, speed of car must be reduced to 5 miles an hour, and foot gong must be rung continuously while passing; car to be kept under proper control;


(d) passengers are prohibited from riding on fenders or bumpers or upon the steps of car outside the gates or doors, and it shall be the duty of every company and every conductor in charge of a car or train of cars to enforce this paragraph;


(e) motormen must not change route or designation signs while the car is in motion.






Trains to stop at swing span




10


When any railway passes over any navigable water or canal by means of a draw or swing span which is subject to be opened for navigation, every train or electric car shall be brought to a full stop and shall not thereafter proceed until a proper signal has been given for that purpose.






Rate of speed on various streets




11


(1) 							Rate of speed—Speed limit of streetcars shall conform to the limits of speed set by the

Motor Vehicle Act

for vehicular traffic except on business streets of a city where the speed must not exceed 18 miles per hour.


(2)

"Business streets"

, for the purposes of this section, shall mean and include, in the City of Vancouver, B.C., the following:


Main Street from Union Station to Powell Street


Hastings Street from Gore Avenue to Granville Street


Powell Street from Dunlevy Avenue To Carrall Street


Carrall Street from Powell Street to Cordova Street


Cordova Street from Carrall Street to Granville Street


Richards Street from Hastings Street to Robson Street


Robson Street from Richards Street to Thurlow Street


Granville Street from Cordova Street to Pacific Street


Pender Street from Granville Street to Burrard Street


In the City of North Vancouver, B.C.:


Lonsdale Avenue from Second Street to Ferry Wharf.


In the City of Victoria, B.C.:


Government Street from Belleville Street to Herald Street


Douglas Street from Fort Street to Herald Street


Fort Street from Government Street to Cook Street


Yates Street from Government Street to Douglas Street


Pandora Avenue from Douglas Street to Blanshard Street


In the City of Nelson, B.C.:


Baker Street from Stanley Street to Josephine Street.






Minister may alter speed




12


The minister may alter such speed in any case to any rate which he deems expedient.






Downgrades




13


Every streetcar or train of streetcars when approaching downgrades shall reduce speed and be kept under control.





Precautions at Railway Crossings





Signal at rail level railway crossings




14


(1)
No train or engine or electric car shall pass over any crossing where 2 lines of railway or the main tracks of any branch lines cross each other at rail level, whether they are owned by different companies or the same company, until a proper signal has been received by the conductor or engineer in charge of such train or engine from a competent person or watchman in charge of such crossing that the way is clear.


(2)
In the case of an electric car crossing any interurban or steam railway track at rail level, if there is no competent person or watchman in charge of the crossing, it shall be the duty of the conductor, before crossing and before giving the signal to the motorman that the way is clear and to proceed, to go forward and see that the track is clear.






Stoppage of trains and electric cars at rail level crossings




15


Every engine, train or electric car shall, before it passes over any such crossing as in the last preceding section mentioned, be brought to a full stop; provided that whenever there is in use at any such crossing an interlocking switch and signal system or other device which, in the opinion of the minister, renders it safe to permit engines and trains or electric cars to pass over such crossing without being brought to a stop, the minister may, by certificate under his hand and seal of office, permit such engines and trains and cars to pass over such crossing without stopping, under such regulations as to speed and other matters as the minister deems proper.






Trains must not obstruct highway more than 5 minutes




16


Whenever any railway crosses any highway at rail level the company shall not, nor shall its officers, agents or employees, wilfully permit any engine, tender or car, or any portion thereof, to stand on any part of such highway for a longer period than 5 minutes at one time, or, in shunting, to obstruct public traffic for a longer period than 5 minutes at one time, or, in the opinion of the minister, unnecessarily interfere therewith.





Qualifications and Requirements of Employees





Examinations enforced by company




17


No employee shall engage in the operation of streetcars or trains or handle train orders unless such employee shall have first passed a satisfactory examination on the regulations and undergone a satisfactory eye and ear test by a competent examiner, and it shall be the duty of every company to enforce the observance of this section.






Examination of conductors and motormen




18


Every motorman and conductor must pass a satisfactory examination in regard to the proper care of the equipment, the handling of air brakes, train rules and regulations, and be at least 21 years of age.






Passengers in front vestibule




19


Motormen must not allow passengers nor unauthorized persons to ride in front vestibule of cars.





Inspection of Cars and Trains





Inspection of city streetcars and trains




20


All streetcars and trains must be inspected as to air brake equipment and safety appliances before cars or trains are put into service, and it shall be the duty of every motorman to personally test the above equipment before taking charge of a train or streetcar.






Designation of ends of cars




21


The letters "A" and "B" shall be stencilled in the vestibule of cars. The end towards which the cylinder push rod travels shall be known as "B" end and the opposite end as "A" end. When motormen and others make a report of defects, the letters "A" and "B" shall be used to show to which end repairs are necessary.






Cleaning brake cylinders and triple valves




22


Brake cylinders and triple valves on all city streetcars shall be cleaned every 6 months. Brake cylinders shall be stencilled where the work was done, also the month and year. All brake valves and air gauges shall be tested once a month and a small sticker giving date and year shall be stuck on gauge glass.





Penalties





Penalties




23


Every company guilty of an infraction of any of these regulations, or of failure to discharge any duty imposed upon it by any of these regulations, shall be liable, pursuant to Part 45, sections 270 to 279, of the

Railway Act

.






1.



Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976, regulation made by authority of minister only.




[Provisions of the

Railway Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these regulations: sections 268 and 271]





