




"Point in Time" Regulation Content



Securities Act



National Instrument 25-101 Designated Rating Organizations


B.C. Reg. 78/2012







NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content								as it was prior to the changes made on the effective date. (PIT
covers changes made from September 19, 2009 to
"current to" date of the regulation.)





SECTION


EFFECTIVE DATE




Section 1



May 5, 2015





Appendix A



May 5, 2015











Section 1 definition of "related entity" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.



"related entity"

means, in relation to an issuer of a securitized product, an originator, arranger, underwriter, servicer or sponsor of the securitized product or any person or company performing similar functions;




Section 1 definition of "securitized product" BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.



"securitized product"

means any of the following:






(a)


a security that entitles the security holder to receive payments that primarily depend on the cash flow from self-liquidating financial assets collateralizing the security, such as loans, leases, mortgages, and secured or unsecured receivables, including:






(i)


an asset-backed security;






(ii)


a collateralized mortgage obligation;






(iii)


a collateralized debt obligation;






(iv)


a collateralized bond obligation;






(v)


a collateralized debt obligation of asset-backed securities;






(vi)


a collateralized debt obligation of collateralized debt obligations;






(b)


a security that entitles the security holder to receive payments that substantially reference or replicate the payments made on one or more securities of the type described in paragraph (a) but that do not primarily depend on the cash flow from self-liquidating financial assets that collateralize the security, including:






(i)


a synthetic asset-backed security;






(ii)


a synthetic collateralized mortgage obligation;






(iii)


a synthetic collateralized debt obligation;






(iv)


a synthetic collateralized bond obligation;






(v)


a synthetic collateralized debt obligation of asset-backed securities;






(vi)


a synthetic collateralized debt obligation of collateralized debt obligations.




Section 1 definition of "structured finance product" was added by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.






Appendix A, section 2.9 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


2.9 The designated rating organization will assess whether the methodologies and models used for determining credit ratings of a securitized product are appropriate when the risk characteristics of the assets underlying the securitized product change significantly. If the quality of the available information is not satisfactory or if the complexity of a new type of structure, instrument or security should reasonably raise concerns about whether the designated rating organization can provide a credible rating, the designated rating organization will not issue or maintain a credit rating.




Appendix A, section 2.19 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


2.19 The designated rating organization and its ratings employees and agents will not, either implicitly or explicitly, give any assurance or guarantee of a particular rating prior to a rating assessment. The designated rating organization may develop prospective assessments if the assessment is to be used in a securitized product or similar transaction.




Appendix A, section 2.22 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


2.22 The designated rating organization will not issue a credit rating unless a majority of its board of directors, or the board of directors of a DRO affiliate that is a parent of the designated rating organization, including its independent directors, have, what a reasonable person would consider, sufficient expertise in financial services to fully understand and properly oversee the business activities of the designated rating organization. If the designated rating organization issues a credit rating for a securitized product, at least one independent member and one other member must have, what a reasonable person would consider to be, in-depth knowledge and experience at a senior level, regarding the securitized product.




Appendix A, section 4.5 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


4.5 In each of its ratings reports in respect of a securitized product, a designated rating organization will disclose the following:


(a) all information about loss and cash-flow analysis it has performed or is relying upon and an indication of any expected change in the credit rating. The designated rating organization will also disclose the degree to which it analyzes how sensitive a rating of a securitized product is to changes in the designated rating organization's underlying rating assumptions;


(b) the level of assessment the designated rating organization has performed concerning the due diligence processes carried out at the level of underlying financial instruments or other assets of securitized products. The designated rating organization will also disclose whether it has undertaken any assessment of such due diligence processes or whether it has relied on a third-party assessment and how the outcome of such assessment impacts the credit rating.




Appendix A, section 4.7 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


4.7 A designated rating organization will disclose on an ongoing basis information about all securitized products submitted to it for its initial review or for a preliminary rating, including whether the issuer requested the designated rating organization to provide a final rating.




Appendix A, section 4.9 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 66/2015, effective May 5, 2015.


4.9 The designated rating organization will differentiate ratings of securitized products from traditional corporate bond ratings through a different rating symbology. The designated rating organization will also disclose how this differentiation functions. The designated rating organization will clearly define a given rating symbol and apply it in a consistent manner for all types of securities to which that symbol is assigned.





