




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Expropriation Amendment Act, 2004


Expropriation Compensation Board Transitional Regulation

B.C. Reg. 97/2005





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 97/2005

O.C. 211/2005


Deposited March 18, 2005






Expropriation Amendment Act, 2004


Expropriation Compensation Board Transitional Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Expropriation Act
;


"board"
means the Expropriation Compensation Board;


"board proceeding"
means a proceeding that was brought by filing an application with
the board under section 2 of the Expropriation Compensation Board
Practice and Procedure Regulation, B.C. Reg. 452/87, before March
18, 2005;


"compensation decision"
means a determination under section 26 (1) of the Act, and
includes a determination of the entitlement to, and the scale of,
the costs that are or may be payable in relation to the proceeding
in which the determination is made;


"compensation hearing"
means a hearing for the purpose of arriving at a compensation
decision, but does not include

(a) a pre-hearing conference,
(b) an interlocutory hearing, or

(c) a hearing under section 45 or 48 of the Act;


"in-progress board proceeding"
means a board proceeding if one of the following applies:


(a) the board held a compensation hearing in the board
proceeding after August 1, 2004 and before March 18, 2005 and the
board has not yet rendered its compensation decision in that
proceeding;


(b) there has been an appeal to the Court of Appeal in
relation to the board proceeding and the appeal has been heard, in
whole or in part, before March 18, 2005;


(c) before March 18, 2005, a hearing in the board proceeding
was scheduled to commence after March 17, 2005 and before January
1, 2006.





Ongoing jurisdiction of the board



2

(1)  Except as provided for in this regulation, the board has
no rights, powers or jurisdiction and, without limiting this, must
not

(a) set or conduct any hearings,

(b) accept, hear or consider any motions or applications,


(c) make any orders or render any decisions, or


(d) accept, hear or consider any referrals or remittances of
any matters or issues from any court, tribunal or other body.


(2)  The board may, in an in-progress board proceeding,


(a) subject to subsection (3), take any steps it considers
may be necessary to conclude the proceeding, including, without
limitation, setting or conducting any additional compensation
hearings, pre-hearing conferences, interlocutory hearings or
hearings under section 48 of the Act,


(b) render its decision in respect of the proceeding, and


(c) determine entitlement to, and the scale of, costs in
respect of the proceeding in accordance with the Tariff of Costs
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 189/99, as that regulation applies under
section 3 of this regulation.

(3)  The board

(a) must not take any action under subsection (2) (a) after
December 31, 2005,


(b) must not set or conduct a hearing under section 45 of the
Act, and


(c) must make all reasonable efforts to conclude an
in-progress board proceeding as soon as is reasonably practicable.


(4)  If, before January 1, 2006, the board has not completed
all of the hearings necessary to allow it to render its
compensation decision in an in-progress board proceeding, that
proceeding becomes an unset board proceeding within the meaning of
the Compensation Action Procedure Rule and that rule applies.


(5)  The board must transfer to the Deputy Attorney General
all of the board's files relating to every board proceeding as
follows:


(a) if the board proceeding is not an in-progress board
proceeding, promptly after the coming into force of this
regulation;


(b) if the board proceeding is an in-progress board
proceeding, promptly after December 31, 2005, or, if the board
has, before January 1, 2006, heard all of the hearings necessary
to make its compensation decision in the board proceeding,
promptly after the date on which the board renders that
compensation decision.





Transitional — proceedings before the board



3

(1)  In this section:


"expropriation enactments"
means


(a) the
Expropriation Act
, and the regulations under that Act, as they read immediately
before March 18, 2005, and


(b) the Acts consequentially amended by the
Expropriation Amendment Act, 2004
, and the regulations under those Acts, insofar as those Acts and
regulations relate to an expropriation,

but does not include the Tariff;

"Tariff"
means the Tariff of Costs Regulation, B.C. Reg. 189/99.


(2)  Despite the
Expropriation Amendment Act, 2004
and despite the repeal of any of the expropriation enactments,


(a) the Tariff applies to an in-progress board proceeding,
and


(b) the expropriation enactments, as they read immediately
before March 18, 2005, continue to apply to an in-progress board
proceeding, except that a reference to "the board", in section 28
(2) of the Act, as that section applies for the purposes of this
paragraph, should be read as a reference to "the Supreme Court".


(3)  The Compensation Action Procedure Rule and the
Expropriation Proceeding Costs Regulation apply to any board
proceeding that is not an in-progress board proceeding.





Appointments extended



4

(1)  For the purposes of this regulation, the appointments to
the board of the following persons are extended until September 1,
2006 on the same terms and conditions as applied to those
appointments immediately before the coming into force of this
section:

(a) Firoz Dossa;
(b) Martin Linsley;
(c) Bo Fodchuk;
(d) George Ward.

(2)  All things done that would have been validly done had
this section in fact been in force on March 18, 2005 are
conclusively deemed to have been validly done.

[en. B.C. Reg. 270/2005.]


[Provisions of the
Expropriation Amendment Act, 2004
, S.B.C. 2004, c. 61, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 21]





