




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Securities Act


National Instrument 45-101 Rights Offerings

B.C. Reg. 165/2001






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Regulation

December 8, 2015



Section 3.1

June 30, 2011









Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 230/2015, effective December 8,
2015.





B.C. Reg. 165/2001


British Columbia Securities Commission



Deposited July 6, 2001

effective July 25, 2001





Securities Act



National Instrument 45-101
Rights Offerings



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 86/2011, June 30, 2011]




Part 1 — Definitions, Interpretation and Application





Definitions




1.1


In this Instrument



"acceptance date"

means




(i)

the date that is 10 days after the date the issuer gives the
notice referred to in the rights offering prospectus exemption, or




(ii)

if the reviewing authority has objected to the proposed trade
under the rights offering prospectus exemption, the date the
reviewing authority notifies the issuer by written notice that it
no longer objects to the use of the rights offering prospectus
exemption;



"additional subscription privilege"

means the privilege, granted to a holder of a right, to subscribe
for securities not subscribed for under a basic subscription
privilege;



"basic subscription privilege"

means a privilege to subscribe for that number of securities set
out in a rights certificate held by a holder of the rights
certificate;


"class"
includes a series of a class of securities;



"managing dealer"

means a dealer that has entered into an agreement with an issuer
under which the dealer has agreed to organize, and participate in,
the solicitation of the exercise of rights issued by the issuer;



"market price"

means for securities of a class for which there is a published
market




(a)

except as provided in paragraph (b)




(i)

if the published market provides a closing price, the simple
average of the closing price of securities of that class on the
published market for each of the trading days on which there was a
closing price falling not more than 20 trading days immediately
before the day as of which the market price is being determined,
or




(ii)

if the published market does not provide a closing price, but
provides only the highest and lowest prices of securities of the
class traded, the average of the simple averages of the highest
and lowest prices of securities of the class on the published
market for each of the trading days on which there were highest
and lowest prices falling not more than 20 trading days
immediately before the day as of which the market price is being
determined, or




(b)

if trading of securities of the class in the published market has
occurred on fewer than 10 of the immediately preceding 20 trading
days, the average of the following amounts established for each of
the 20 trading days immediately before the day as of which the
market price is being determined:



1. The average of the closing bid and closing ask prices for
each day on which there was no trading.

2. If the published market



(i)

provides a closing price of securities of the class for each day
that there has been trading, the closing price, or




(ii)

provides only the highest and lowest prices, the average of the
highest and lowest prices of securities of that class for each day
that there has been trading;



"published market"

means, for a class of securities, a marketplace on which the
securities have traded that discloses regularly in a publication
of general and regular paid circulation or in a form that is
broadly distributed by electronic means the prices at which those
securities have traded;



"reviewing authority"

means




(a)

in all jurisdictions except British Columbia and Alberta, the
securities regulatory authority or regulator; and




(b)

in British Columbia and Alberta, the regulator;



"rights offering"

means the issuance by an issuer to existing securityholders of a
right to purchase additional securities of the issuer's own issue;



"rights offering prospectus exemption"

means the exemption in securities legislation from the prospectus
requirement for a rights offering;



"rights offering registration exemption"

means the exemption in securities legislation from the trading
registration requirement for a rights offering;



"soliciting dealer"

means a person or company the interest of which in a rights
offering is limited to participating in the solicitation of the
exercise of rights by holders of those rights;



"stand-by commitment"

means an agreement by a person or company to acquire securities of
an issuer not issued under the basic subscription privilege or the
additional subscription privilege available under a rights
offering; and



"subscription price"

means the price per security at which the securities issuable on
the exercise of rights may be subscribed for under a rights
offering.

[am. B.C. Reg. 269/2005, Sch. B.]





Interpretation




1.2


For the purpose of the definition of "market price", if there is
more than one published market for a security,




(a)

if only one of the published markets is in Canada, the market
price shall be determined solely by reference to that market;




(b)

if there is more than one published market in Canada, the market
price shall be determined solely by reference to the published
market in Canada on which the greatest volume of trading in the
particular class of securities occurred during the 20 trading days
immediately before the date as of which the market price is being
determined; and




(c)

if there is no published market in Canada, the market price shall
be determined solely by reference to the published market on which
the greatest volume of trading in the particular class of
securities occurred during the 20 trading days immediately before
the date on which the market price is being determined.






Application




1.3


This Instrument applies to an issuer that trades in a local
jurisdiction, by way of a rights offering, securities of its own
issue to a beneficial holder of its securities.




Part 2 — Removal of Rights Offering Prospectus Exemption





General




2.1


The rights offering prospectus exemption is not available to an
issuer unless the issuer and the rights offering comply with the
requirements of Parts 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Instrument.






Restricted offerings




2.2


The rights offering prospectus exemption is not available to an
issuer for a rights offering in any of the following
circumstances:



1. The issuer is a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction and
there would be an increase of more than 25 percent in the
number, or, in the case of debt, the principal amount, of the
outstanding securities of the class to be issued upon the exercise
of rights, assuming the exercise of all rights issued under the
rights offering and the exercise of any other rights issued by the
issuer under the rights offering prospectus exemption during the
12 months immediately before the acceptance date.


2. The issuer has entered into an agreement to compensate a
person or company for soliciting the exercise of rights issued
under the rights offering that provides for payment of a higher
fee for soliciting the exercise of rights by holders of rights
that were not securityholders of the issuer immediately before the
rights offering than the fee payable for soliciting the exercise
of rights by holders of rights that were securityholders at that
time.


3. The rights offering is conditional on a minimum amount of
proceeds being raised and the exercise period for the rights is
more than 45 days after the acceptance date.


4. The issuer is not a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction
and the exercise period for the rights is more than 60 days after
the acceptance date.


5. The issuer is a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction and
the exercise period for the rights is more than 90 days after the
acceptance date.


6. The issuer is a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction and
the exercise period for the rights is less than 21 days after the
date on which the rights offering circular is sent to
securityholders under paragraph 3.2 (a).


7. The issuer is a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction and
has not filed financial statements required to be filed under
Canadian securities legislation.




Part 3 — Prospectus Exempt Offerings





Deliveries to the reviewing authority




3.1

(1)


An issuer that is relying on the rights offering prospectus
exemption shall send to the reviewing authority the following
documents:



1. A rights offering circular in draft and final form prepared in
accordance with Form 45-101F.


2. If the issuer is not a reporting issuer in any jurisdiction, a
statement of the issuer signed on its behalf by a senior officer
confirming:



a) that the issuer is in compliance with the requirements of its
incorporating legislation concerning the distribution of
information to its securityholders; and


b) no material change has occurred that has not been previously
disclosed in writing to its securityholders.


3. A copy of any agreement entered into, or proposed to be entered
into, by the issuer with a managing dealer.


4. A copy of the technical reports, certificates, and consents
required under National Instrument 43-101
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects
.


5. If the issuer is engaged in oil and gas activities (as defined
in National Instrument 51-101
Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities
) and the rights offering circular is sent to the reviewing
authority on or before June 30, 2005, an oil and gas report
prepared in accordance with National Policy Statement No. 2-B

Guide for Engineers and Geologists Submitting Oil and Gas
Reports to Canadian Provincial Securities Administrators

, unless the issuer has filed or is required to have filed (or has
included or is required to have included in another filed
document) the statement referred to in Item 1 of section 2.1 of
National Instrument 51-101.


6. The details of any other rights offering completed by the
issuer within the 12 months immediately preceding the date the
rights offering circular in draft form is sent to the reviewing
authority.




(2)

A rights offering circular in draft form may exclude information
about the subscription price and other matters dependent on the
subscription price.


[am. B.C. Regs. 342/2003, Sch. D; 86/2011, s. (d).]






Delivery to securityholders




3.2


An issuer that is required to provide notice under the rights
offering prospectus exemption shall send




(a)

to each securityholder entitled to receive rights under the rights
offering a rights offering circular to which the reviewing
authority has not objected or has confirmed its acceptance; and




(b)

to each securityholder entitled to receive rights under the rights
offering and to each registered rights holder, a copy of any
amendment under section 3.3.






Amendments




3.3

(1)


An issuer that has sent to its securityholders a rights offering
circular under paragraph 3.2 (a) may amend the rights
offering circular, for the purpose of updating information, by
sending to the reviewing authority an amendment to the rights
offering circular in draft and final form or an amended rights
offering circular in draft and final form blacklined to the
previously filed rights offering circular.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), after the acceptance date, an issuer shall
not amend the rights offering circular to change the terms of the
rights offering.




Part 4 — Prospectus Offerings





Reliance on registration exemption




4.1


An issuer that files a prospectus for a rights offering and
intends to rely on the rights offering registration exemption
shall state that it intends to rely on the exemption in a letter
accompanying the filing of the preliminary prospectus.






Prospectus




4.2


An issuer shall not file a prospectus for a rights offering,
unless




(a)

in addition to qualifying the distribution of the rights, the
prospectus qualifies the distribution of the securities issuable
on the exercise of the rights;




(b)

if there is a managing dealer, the managing dealer has signed the
underwriter's certificate in the prospectus; and




(c)

if the issuer is a reporting issuer, the exercise period for the
rights is at least 21 days after the date on which the prospectus
is sent to securityholders.






Compliance with instrument




4.3


An issuer shall not file a prospectus or an amendment to a
prospectus for a rights offering unless the issuer and the rights
offering comply with the requirements of Parts 5, 6, 7
and 8.






Amendment




4.4


An issuer shall not file an amendment to a prospectus for a rights
offering to change the terms of the rights offering.




Part 5 — Insider Subscriptions





Insider subscriptions




5.1

(1)


If there is no published market or the subscription price is
greater than the market price, for securities of the class of
securities issuable on the exercise of the rights, no insider of
the issuer shall be permitted to increase its proportionate
interest in the issuer through the exercise of the rights under
the rights offering or through a stand-by commitment.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply if there is no published market and
the issuer, at the time that the rights offering circular in final
form or the rights offering prospectus under which the rights are
to be issued is sent to the reviewing authority, by notice in
writing confirms to the reviewing authority that the subscription
price for the securities issuable on the exercise of the rights is
not greater than the fair value of the securities on the day
before the date the subscription price is established.




Part 6 — Stand-by Commitments





Stand-by commitments




6.1


If there is a stand-by commitment for a rights offering, the
issuer shall deliver to the reviewing authority at the time the
rights offering circular in final form or the rights offering
prospectus is sent to the reviewing authority evidence that the
person or company providing the stand-by commitment has the
financial ability to carry out the stand-by commitment.




Part 7 — Additional Subscription Privilege





Additional subscription privilege




7.1


An issuer shall not grant an additional subscription privilege to
a holder of a right unless the issuer grants the additional
subscription privilege to all holders of rights.






Stand-by Commitment




7.2


If there is a stand-by commitment for a rights offering, the
issuer shall grant an additional subscription privilege to all
holders of rights.






Number or amount of securities




7.3

(1)


Under an additional subscription privilege, each holder of a right
shall be entitled to receive, on exercise of the additional
subscription privilege, the number or amount of securities that is
equal to the lesser of




(a)

the number or amount of securities subscribed for by the holder
under the additional subscription privilege; and




(b)

x(y/z)
where



x
= the aggregate number or amount of securities available through
unexercised rights,


y
= the number of rights previously exercised by the holder under
the rights offering, and


z
= the aggregate number of rights previously exercised under the
rights offering by holders of rights that have subscribed for
securities under the additional subscription privilege.




(2)

Any unexercised rights shall be allocated on a pro rata basis to
holders who subscribed for additional securities based on the
additional subscription privilege up to the number of securities
subscribed for by a particular holder.






Price of securities




7.4


The subscription price under an additional subscription privilege
or a stand-by commitment shall be the same as the subscription
price under the basic subscription privilege.




Part 8 — Appointment of Depository





Depository




8.1

(1)


Subject to section 8.2, if a reporting issuer has specified in a
rights offering circular or rights offering prospectus that no
securities will be issued on the exercise of the rights unless
proceeds at least equal to the specified minimum amount are
received by the issuer under the rights offering, the issuer shall
appoint one of the following to hold, as a depository, all money
received on the exercise of the rights until that specified
minimum amount is received or until the money is returned under
the agreement referred to in section 8.2:



1. A Canadian financial institution.


2. A registrant in the jurisdiction in which the funds are
proposed to be held, who is acting as managing dealer for the
rights offering, or if there is no managing dealer, who is acting
as a soliciting dealer.




(2)

The issuer shall identify the depository appointed under
subsection (1) in the rights offering circular or rights offering
prospectus.






Release of funds from depository




8.2


The agreement between the depository and the issuer under which
the depository referred to in section 8.1 is appointed shall
provide that, if the specified minimum amount referred to in
section 8.1 is not received by the depository during the
exercise period for the rights, the money held by the depository
will be returned in full to the holders of rights that have
subscribed for securities under the rights offering.




Part 9 — Listing Representations





Listing representations




9.1


A reviewing authority's written permission to include a listing
representation that is not otherwise permitted under the
securities legislation of the Jurisdictions in a rights offering
circular or in a rights offering prospectus is evidenced by the
acceptance of, or non-objection to, the circular or the issuance
of a receipt for the prospectus by the reviewing authority.




Part 10 — Exemption





Connection test




10.1

(1)


Parts 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 do not apply to an issuer effecting a
rights offering if




(a)

to the knowledge of the issuer after reasonable enquiry,




(i)

the number of beneficial holders of the class for which the rights
are issued resident in Canada does not constitute 10 percent
or more of all holders of that class;




(ii)

the number of securities of the issuer of the class for which the
rights are issued beneficially held by securityholders resident in
Canada does not constitute, in the aggregate, 10 percent or
more of the outstanding securities of that class;




(iii)

the number of beneficial holders of the class for which the rights
are issued resident in the local jurisdiction does not constitute
five percent or more of all holders of that class; and




(iv)

the number of securities of the issuer of the class for which the
rights are issued beneficially held by securityholders resident in
the local jurisdiction does not constitute, in the aggregate, five
percent or more of the outstanding securities of that class; and




(b)

all materials sent to any other securityholders for the rights
offering are concurrently sent to the reviewing authority and to
each securityholder of the issuer resident in the local
jurisdiction.




(2)

An issuer relying on the exemption in subsection (1) shall send to
the reviewing authority a written notice that it is relying on the
exemption and a certificate of an officer or director of the
issuer, or if the issuer is a limited partnership, an officer or
director of the general partner of the issuer, or if the issuer is
a trust, a trustee or officer or director of a trustee of the
issuer, that to the knowledge of the person signing the
certificate, after reasonable inquiry that




(a)

the number of beneficial holders of the class for which the rights
are issued resident in Canada does not constitute 10 percent
or more of all holders of that class;




(b)

the number of securities of the issuer of the class for which the
rights are issued beneficially held by securityholders resident in
Canada does not constitute, in the aggregate, 10 percent or
more of the outstanding securities of that class;




(c)

the number of beneficial holders of the class for which the rights
are issued resident in the local jurisdiction does not constitute
five percent or more of all holders of that class; and




(d)

the number of securities of the issuer of the class for which the
rights are issued beneficially held by securityholders resident in
the local jurisdiction does not constitute, in the aggregate, five
percent or more of the outstanding securities of that class.






Exemption




10.2

(1)


The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from this Instrument, in whole or in part, subject to
such conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the
exemption.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the regulator may grant
such an exemption.






Evidence of exemption




10.3


Without limiting the manner in which an exemption under
section 10.2 may be evidenced, the issuance by the reviewing
authority of a receipt for the rights offering prospectus or
acceptance of, or non-objection to, the rights offering circular
is evidence of the granting of the exemption if




(a)

the person or company that sought the exemption delivered to the
regulator on or before the date the preliminary rights offering
prospectus or rights offering circular in draft form was sent to
the reviewing authority, a letter or memorandum describing the
matters relating to the exemption application, and indicating why
consideration should be given to the granting of the exemption;
and




(b)

the regulator has not sent written notice to the contrary to the
person or company that sought the exemption before or concurrently
with the issuance of the receipt for the prospectus or acceptance
of, or non-objection to, the circular by the reviewing authority.




Part 11 — Effective date





Effective Date of Instrument




11.1


This Instrument comes into force on July 25, 2001.




Form 45-101F


[am. B.C. Regs. 411/2007, App. C, s. 2; 59/2008, App. F.]



INFORMATION REQUIRED IN A RIGHTS OFFERING CIRCULAR



This is the form required by section 3.1 of National
Instrument 45-101
Rights Offerings
.


Item 1 — Name of Issuer





Name of Issuer




1.1


State the full legal name of the issuer and the addresses of its
head office or registered office, and of its principal office.



Item 2 — Summary of Offering





Summary of Offering




2.1


On the first page of the circular, set out in summary form




(i)

the number of rights;




(ii)

the record date;




(iii)

the time and date of expiry of the offer;




(iv)

the subscription price;




(v)

the basic subscription privilege;




(vi)

the maximum number of securities issuable and the proceeds to be
received by the issuer, assuming the exercise of all rights issued
under the rights offering;




(vii)

the estimated expenses of the rights offering;




(viii)

any stand-by commitment;




(ix)

the basis on which any additional subscription privilege may be
exercised; and




(ix)

the minimum amount of proceeds, if any, upon which the rights
offering is conditioned.



INSTRUCTIONS:



1. If the rights will be listed on a stock exchange, include
the following statement on the face page:



"The Rights will be listed on the [name of exchange]."



2. If the securities issuable on the exercise of the rights
will be listed on a stock exchange, include the following
statement on the face page:




"The [name of exchange] has approved the listing of the [name of
securities] issuable on the exercise of the Rights."



Item 3 — International issuers






3.1


If the issuer is incorporated, continued or otherwise organized
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of
Canada, state the following on the cover page or under a separate
heading elsewhere in the rights offering circular, with the
bracketed information completed:



"[The issuer"] is incorporated, continued or otherwise organized
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of
Canada. Although [the issuer] has appointed [name(s) and
address(es) of agent(s) for service] as its agent(s) for service
of process in [list jurisdictions] it may not be possible for
investors to enforce judgements obtained in Canada against [the
issuer]."







3.2


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. F, s. 2 (b).]




Item 4 — Brief Description of the Business of the Issuer






Brief Description of the Business of the Issuer




4.1


Briefly describe the business carried on and intended to be
carried on by the issuer and its subsidiaries.




Item 5 — Details of the Rights and Securities Offered






Details of the Rights and Securities Offered




5.1


Describe the significant attributes of the rights issued under the
rights offering and the securities to be issued on the exercise of
the rights.




Item 6 — Registration and Delivery of Certificates Evidencing
Securities






Registration and Delivery of Certificates Evidencing Securities




6.1


Describe the details of the registration and delivery of security
certificates or other evidence of securities to holders of rights
who exercise the rights.



Item 7 — Subscription Agent and Transfer Agent





Subscription Agent and Transfer Agent




7.1

(1)


Identify the person or company appointed as subscription agent to
receive subscriptions and payments from holders of a rights
certificate and to perform the services relating to the exercise
and transfer of the rights and provide details of such
arrangements.




(2)

Identify the person or company appointed as registrar and transfer
agent for the securities to be issued on exercise of the rights.



Item 8 — How to Exercise the Rights






8.1


How to Exercise the Rights
— Set out in detail how a holder may exercise the basic
subscription privilege, exercise any additional subscription
privilege, sell or transfer rights or divide or combine the rights
evidenced by the certificate.



INSTRUCTIONS



1. Describe the basis on which a holder of a rights
certificate may exercise the basic subscription privilege and any
additional subscription privilege.




2. State if a holder of rights is to forward payment for
additional securities issuable under any additional subscription
privilege with the duly completed rights certificate or wait until
notified by the issuer of the number of additional securities
allotted to such holder.




3. Describe the basis on which the holder of a rights
certificate may sell or transfer the rights or the prohibitions to
the transfer.




4. Describe the basis on which the holder of a rights
certificate may divide or combine the certificate with other
rights certificates.



Item 9 — Stand-by Commitment





Stand-by Commitment




9.1


Identify the person or company providing the stand-by commitment,
if any. Describe the stand-by commitment, if any, and the material
terms of the basis on which the person or company providing the
stand-by commitment may terminate the obligation under the
stand-by commitment.



Item 10 — Escrow of Proceeds and Depository






10.1


Escrow of Proceeds and Depository — Identify the depository, if
any, and any provisions for the deposit of the proceeds of the
rights offering with the depository.




Item 11 — Managing Dealer, Soliciting Dealer(s) and Underwriting
Conflicts






Managing Dealer and Soliciting Dealer(s)




11.1


Identify the managing dealer, if any, and the soliciting dealers,
if known, and describe the fees payable to them.






Underwriting Conflicts




11.2


Comply with the requirements of National Instrument 33-105
Underwriting Conflicts.



INSTRUCTION:



Disclose any information concerning conflicts of interest,
including, without limitation, underwriting conflicts, as required
by securities legislation.




Item 12 — Intention of Insiders to Exercise Rights






Intention of Insiders to Exercise Rights




12.1


State, if known to the issuer after reasonable enquiry, the
intentions of insiders of the issuer, concerning the exercise of
rights issued under the rights offering.



Item 13 — Ownership of Securities of Issuer





Ownership of Securities of Issuer




13.1


Provide the following information for each person or company that
beneficially owns, or controls or directs, directly or indirectly,
more than 10% of any class or series of voting securities of the
issuer as of a specified date not more than 30 days before the
date of the rights offering circular:




(a)

the name;




(b)

for each class or series of voting securities of the issuer, the
number or amount of securities owned, controlled or directed,
directly or indirectly; and




(c)

the percentage of each class or series of voting securities known
by the issuer to be owned, controlled or directed, directly or
indirectly.






Changes of Ownership




13.2


State the particulars of any issuances and, if known to any
director or senior officer of the issuer, transfers of securities
of the issuer that in either case have materially affected the
control of the issuer since the end of the most recent financial
year for which audited financial statements have been prepared.



Item 14 — Use of Proceeds





Use of Proceeds




14.1


Describe the use of the proceeds of the rights offering.



INSTRUCTIONS



Specify the estimated gross and net proceeds of the rights
offering assuming full exercise of the rights, any minimum amount
of proceeds required, and the purpose intended for the proceeds.



Item 15 — Statement as to Resale Restrictions





Statement as to Resale Restrictions




15.1


Where the issuer is offering rights in one or more jurisdictions
in which there are restrictions on the resale of securities, the
rights offering circular shall include a heading entitled
"Statement as to Resale Restrictions" under which the issuer shall
include a statement disclosing when those rights and underlying
securities will become freely tradable in those jurisdictions and
that until then, such securities may not be resold except pursuant
to a prospectus or prospectuses exemption, which may only be
available in limited circumstances.



Item 16 — Website





Website




16.1


Disclose the SEDAR website address and that continuous disclosure
for the issuer can be obtained on that site.



Item 17 — Forward-Looking Information





Forward-Looking Information




17.1


Forward-looking information included in a rights offering circular
must comply with section 4A.2 of NI 51-102 and must include the
disclosure described in section 4A.3 of NI 51-102. In addition to
the foregoing, FOFI or a financial outlook, each as defined in NI
51-102, included in a rights offering circular must comply with
Part 4B of NI 51-102. If the forward-looking information relates
to an issuer or other entity that is not a reporting issuer,
section 4A.2, section 4A.3 and Part 4B of NI 51-102 apply as if
the issuer or other entity were a reporting issuer.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, section 184]





Section 3.1 (1), item 4 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 86/2011, effective
June 30, 2011.


4. A copy of the technical reports and certificates prepared under
National Instrument 43-101
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects
.





