




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Professions Act

Midwives Regulation
B.C. Reg. 103/95





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 103/95

O.C. 269/95


Deposited March 15, 1995






Health Professions Act


Midwives Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"aboriginal"
means relating to the Indian, Inuit or Métis peoples of Canada;


"aboriginal midwifery"
means


(a) traditional aboriginal midwifery practices such as the
use and administration of traditional herbs and medicines and
other cultural and spiritual practices,


(b) contemporary aboriginal midwifery practices which are
based on, or originate in, traditional aboriginal midwifery
practices, or


(c) a combination of traditional and contemporary aboriginal
midwifery practices;


"reserve"
means a reserve as defined in the
Indian Act
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 103/95, s. 8.]




Designation



2

(1)  Midwifery is designated as a health profession.


(2)  The "College of Midwives of British Columbia" is the
name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the
Health Professions Act
for midwifery.





Reserved title



3

No person other than a registrant may use the title "midwife".





Scope of practice



4

(1)  Subject to the bylaws, registrants may


(a) assess, monitor, and care for women during normal
pregnancy, labour, delivery and the post-partum period,


(b) counsel, support and advise women during pregnancy,
labour, delivery and the post-partum period.


(c) manage spontaneous normal vaginal deliveries,


(d) care for, assess and monitor the healthy newborn, and


(e) provide advice and information regarding care for
newborns and young infants and deliver contraceptive services
during the 3 months following birth.


(2)  Subject to the bylaws, aboriginal registrants may
practise aboriginal midwifery.





Reserved acts



5

(1)  Subject to section 14 of the
Health Professions Act
, no person other than a registrant may, for the purposes of
midwifery,


(a) conduct internal examinations of women during pregnancy,
labour, delivery and the post-partum period,


(b) manage spontaneous normal vaginal deliveries,


(c) perform episiotomies and amniotomies during established
labour and repair episiotomies and simple lacerations,


(d) prescribe, order or administer drugs and substances
specified in Schedule 1 to this regulation, and


(e) order, collect samples for, perform or interpret the
results and reports of screening and diagnostic tests specified in
Schedule 2 to this regulation.


(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply on a reserve to an
aboriginal person who practised aboriginal midwifery prior to the
coming into force of this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 245/2003, s. (a).]




Limitations on practice



6

(1)  Registrants must


(a) advise clients to consult a medical practitioner for a
medical examination during the first trimester of pregnancy,


(b) consult with a medical practitioner regarding any
deviations from the normal course of pregnancy, labour, delivery
and the post-partum period that indicate pathology and transfer
responsibility when necessary, and


(c) consult with a medical practitioner if the result or
report of a test in item 4 of Schedule 2 is abnormal.

(1.1)  A registrant may

(a) prescribe or administer a substance in item 1 (2) of
Schedule 1 only for intrapartum chemoprophylaxis for Group B
Strep,


(b) prescribe or administer a substance in item 1 (3) of
Schedule 1 only for therapeutic rest in prodromal labour,


(c) order and administer a drug in item 2 of Schedule 1 only
in emergency conditions and in consultation with a medical
practitioner, and


(d) administer a drug in item 3 of Schedule 1 only after
consulting with and on the order of a medical practitioner.


(2) and (3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 103/95, s. 8.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 245/2003, s. (b) and (c).]




Patient relations program



7

The College of Midwives is designated for the purposes of section
16 (2) (f) of the
Health Professions Act
.





Spent



8

Spent.




Schedule 1


Drugs and Substances


[en. B.C. Reg. 245/2003, s. (d); am. B.C. Regs. 468/2003, ss. (a) to
(c); 32/2005; 256/2005, s. 1; 211/2007, ss. 1 and 2.]


1
(1) A midwife may prescribe or administer the following substances:

Cephalexin
Chloroprocaine — 2%
Clindamycin
Clotrimazole
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride — IM
Domperidone

Doxylamine succinate-pyridoxine hydrochloride

Ergonovine maleate
Erythromycin ophthalmic ointment
Hepatitis B immune globulin
Hepatitis B vaccine
Hydrocortisone anorectal therapy compound

Intravenous fluids — normal saline, Ringer's Lactate, 5% dextrose in
water


Lidocaine hydrochloride without epinephrine — 1%

Measles / Mumps / Rubella (MMR) Vaccine
Miconazole
Misoprostol — po or pr

Mupirocin-clotrimizole-nystatin-betamethasone

Nystatin
Oxytocin — IV or IM injection
Phytonadione

PregVit Prenatal/Postpartum Vitamin-Mineral Supplement

Pre-mixed 50/50 nitrous oxide and oxygen
RhD Immune globulin
Therapeutic oxygen

Triamcinolone — neomycin sulfate — nystatin — gramicidin (Kenacomb)

Triple dye

(2) Subject to section 6 (1.1) (a) of the regulation, a midwife may
prescribe or administer the following substances:

Ampicillin
Cefazolin
Penicillin G
Vancomycin

(3) Subject to section 6 (1.1) (b) of the regulation, a midwife may
prescribe or administer the following substances:

Lorazepam (oral or sublingual)
Oxazepam (oral or sublingual)

2
Subject to section 6 (1.1) (c) of the regulation, a midwife may
order and administer the following drugs:

Carboprost tromethamine
Epinephrine hydrochloride
Naloxone hydrochloride
Nitroglycerin

3
Subject to section 6 (1.1) (d) of the regulation, a midwife may
administer the following drugs:

Acetaminophen with codeine
Antibiotics

Antiemetic/sedative agents with narcotic analgesics

Barbiturates
Cervical ripening agents — in hospital only
Sedatives

Epidural analgesia (continuous infusion maintenance) — in hospital
only

Narcotic antagonists
Narcotics — in hospital only

Oxytocin intravenous infusion — in hospital only


4
A midwife may order, prescribe or administer any drug or substance
that may lawfully be purchased or acquired without a prescription.



Schedule 2


Screening and Diagnostic Tests


[en. B.C. Reg. 245/2003, s. (d); am. B.C. Reg. 468/2003, s. (d);

256/2005, ss. 2 and 3; 211/2007, s. 3; 317/2007.]




1

A midwife may order, collect samples for and interpret the report
of the following screening and diagnostic tests:

(a) for a woman:

(i)  chemistry: blood glucose, urinalysis (routine and
microscopic), serum ferritin, serum B12, serum thyroid stimulating
hormone, free thyroxine, Maternal Serum Marker Screening;


(ii)  cytology: cervical smears (Pap smears);


(iii)  hematology: hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell
count with differential, red blood cell morphology, platelet
count, sickle cell solubility, fetal blood screen, Kleihauer-Betke
and Rosette;

(iv)  microbiology:

(A)  cervical and vaginal cultures and smears (including
sensitivities if relevant) for Group B streptococcus, gonorrhoea,
chlamydia, yeasts, trichomonas, and bacterial vaginosis;


(B)  urine for culture and sensitivities; swabs for culture
and sensitivities (e.g. wounds, episiotomies);


(C)  wet preparation (for fungus, trichomonas, parasites);

(D)  viral swabs (e.g. herpes);

(v)  serology/immunology: blood group and type with antibody
screen, repeat antibody testing, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency
virus antibody, rubella antibody, toxoplasmosis antibody, syphilis
serology, cytomegalo virus antibody, HSV antibodies IgG and IgM;
parvovirus B19 serology including anti-B19 IgG and IgM,
varicella-zoster serology IgG and IgM;

(vi)  pregnancy test (blood and urine);
(b) for a newborn:

(i)  hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count with
differential, blood type and Rh factor, neonatal metabolic screen,
glucose, Coombs, and bilirubin;


(ii)  microbiology samples: cord and eye, ear, and gastric
fluid cultures.





2

A midwife may order, perform and interpret the results of the
following screening and diagnostic tests:

(a) urine (dip stick analysis);
(b) pregnancy test (urine);

(c) blood glucose: adult and newborn (stix method);

(d) hemoglobin (finger prick method);
(e) ferning test (amniotic fluid);
(f) non-stress test;
(f.1) fetal fibronectin;
(g) external fetal monitoring.




3

A midwife may order and interpret the report of:

(a) an obstetrical ultrasound test, or

(b) an amniocentesis for advanced maternal age.





4

Subject to section 6 (1) (c) of the regulation, a midwife may
order the following tests for a woman:

(a) 24 hour urine for protein;
(b) BUN;
(c) liver function;
(d) serum creatinine;
(e) serum electrolytes;
(f) serum uric acid.


[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 12]





