Multilateral Instrument 96-101
Trade Repositories and
Derivatives Data Reporting
Securities Act
Data Field
Description
Cleared
State whether the derivative has been cleared by a clearing
agency.
Electronic trading venue identifier
State whether the transaction was executed on an electronic
trading venue.
Collateralization
State whether the derivative is collateralized.
Unique product identifier
Unique product identification code based on the taxonomy of the
product.
Contract or instrument type
The name of the contract or instrument type (e.g., swap, swaption,
forward, option, basis swap, index swap, basket swap).
Underlying asset identifier 1
The unique identifier of the asset referenced in the derivative.
Underlying asset identifier 2
The unique identifier of the second asset referenced in the
derivative, if more than one.
If more than two assets identified in the derivative, state the
unique identifiers for those additional underlying assets.
Asset class
Major asset class of the product (e.g., interest rate, credit,
commodity, foreign exchange, equity).
Effective date or start date
The date the derivative becomes effective or starts.
Maturity, termination or end date
The date the derivative expires.
Payment frequency or dates
The dates or frequency the derivative requires payments to be made
(e.g., quarterly, monthly).
Reset frequency or dates
The dates or frequency at which the price resets (e.g., quarterly,
semi-annually, annually).
Day count convention
Factor used to calculate the payments (e.g., 30/360, actual/360).
Price 1
The price, rate, yield, spread, coupon or similar characteristic
of the derivative. This should not include any premiums such as
commissions, collateral premiums or accrued interest.
Price 2
The price, rate, yield, spread, coupon or similar characteristic
of the derivative. This should not include any premiums such as
commissions, collateral premiums or accrued interest.
Price notation type 1
The manner in which the price is expressed (e.g., percentage,
basis points).
Price notation type 2
The manner in which the price is expressed (e.g., percentage,
basis points).
Notional amount leg 1
Total notional amount(s) of leg 1 of the derivative.
Notional amount leg 2
Total notional amount(s) of leg 2 of the derivative.
Currency leg 1
Currency of leg 1.
Currency leg 2
Currency of leg 2.
Settlement currency
The currency used to determine the cash settlement amount.
Embedded option
State whether the option is an embedded option.
Option exercise date
The date(s) on which the option may be exercised.
Option premium
Fixed premium paid by the buyer to the seller.
Strike price
(cap/floor rate)
The strike price of the option.
Option style
State whether the option can be exercised on a fixed date or
anytime during the life of the derivative (e.g., American,
European, Bermudan, Asian).
Option type
Put, call.
Action
Describe the type of event to the derivative (e.g., new
transaction, modification or cancellation of existing derivative).
Execution timestamp
The time and date of execution of a derivative, including a
novation, expressed using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
