National Instrument 45-106
Prospectus Exemptions
Securities Act
1.
If the issuer will use more than 10% of available funds to
reduce or retire indebtedness and the indebtedness was incurred
within the 2 preceding years, describe the principal purposes
for which the indebtedness was used. If the creditor is an
insider, associate or affiliate of the issuer, identify the
creditor and the nature of the relationship to the issuer and
disclose the outstanding amount owed.
2.
If the issuer will use more than 10% of available funds to
acquire assets, describe the assets. If known, disclose the
particulars of the purchase price being paid for or being
allocated to the assets or categories of assets, including
intangible assets. If the vendor of the asset is an insider,
associate or affiliate of the issuer, identify the vendor and
nature of the relationship to the issuer, and disclose the
method used to determine the purchase price.
3.
If any of the available funds will be paid to an insider,
associate or affiliate of the issuer, disclose in a note to the
table the name of the insider, associate or affiliate, the
relationship to the issuer, and the amount to be paid.
4.
If the issuer will use more than 10% of available funds for
research and development of products or services,
a.
describe the timing and stage of research and development that
management anticipates will be reached using the funds,
b.
describe the major components of the proposed programs the
issuer will use the available funds for, including an estimate
of anticipated costs,
c.
state if the issuer is conducting its own research and
development, is subcontracting out the research and development
or is using a combination of those methods, and
d.
describe the additional steps required to reach commercial
production and an estimate of costs and timing.
5.
If the issuer's most recently filed audited annual financial
statements or interim financial report included a going concern
note, disclose that fact and explain how this offering is
anticipated to address any uncertainties that affect the
decision on whether a going concern note is included in your
next annual financial statements.
