National Instrument 45-110
Start-up Crowdfunding Registration
and Prospectus Exemptions
Securities Act
Item 7: PREVIOUS CROWDFUNDING DISTRIBUTIONS
7.1
For each crowdfunding distribution in which the issuer group and
each founder, director, officer and control person of the issuer
group have been involved in the past five years, provide the
following information:
(a)
the full legal name of the issuer that made the distribution;
(b)
the name of the funding portal;
(c)
whether the distribution successfully closed, was withdrawn by the
issuer or did not close because the minimum offering amount was
not reached, and the date on which any of these occurred.
Instruction: Provide the information for all previous
crowdfunding distributions involving the issuer group and each
founder, director, officer and control person of each member of
the issuer group, even if the previous crowdfunding distribution
was made by an issuer that is not a member of the issuer group.
Item 8: COMPENSATION PAID TO FUNDING PORTAL
8.1
Provide a description of each commission, fee or other amount
expected to be paid by the issuer to the funding portal for this
crowdfunding distribution and the estimated amount to be paid. If
a commission is being paid, indicate the percentage that the
commission will represent of the gross proceeds of the offering
assuming both the minimum and maximum offering amount.
Item 9: RISK FACTORS
9.1
Describe in order of importance, starting with the most important,
the risk factors material to the issuer that a reasonable investor
would consider important in deciding whether to buy the issuer's
securities.
9.2
If the securities being distributed are to pay interest, dividends
or distributions and the issuer does not have the financial
resources to make such payments, (other than from the sale of
securities) state in bold type:
"We do not currently have the financial resources to pay
[interest, dividends or distributions] to investors. There is no
assurance that we will ever have the financial resources to do
so."
Item 10: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS
10.1
Describe the nature and frequency of any disclosure of information
the issuer intends to provide to purchasers after the closing of
the distribution and explain how purchasers can access this
information.
10.2
If the issuer is required by corporate legislation, its constating
documents (e.g., articles of incorporation or by-laws) or
otherwise to provide annual financial statements or an information
circular/proxy statements to its security holders, state that
fact.
10.3
If the issuer is aware, after making reasonable inquiries, of any
existing voting trust agreement among certain shareholders of the
issuer, provide the following information:
(a)
the number of shareholders party to the agreement;
(b)
the percentage of voting shares of the issuer subject to the
agreement;
(c)
the name of the person acting as a trustee;
(d)
whether the trustee has been granted any additional powers;
(e)
whether the agreement is limited to a specified period of time.
Item 11: RESALE RESTRICTIONS
11.1
Include the following statement, in bold type:
"The securities you are purchasing are subject to a resale
restriction. You might never be able to resell the securities."
Item 12: PURCHASERS' RIGHTS
12.1
Include the following statement, in bold type:
"Rights of Action in the Event of a Misrepresentation
If there is a misrepresentation in this offering document, you
have a right
(a)
to cancel your agreement with [
name of issuer or other term used to refer to issuer
] to buy these securities, or
(b)
to damages against [
name of issuer or other term used to refer to issuer
] and may, in certain jurisdictions, have the statutory right to
damages from other persons.
These rights are available to you whether or not you relied on
the misrepresentation. However, there are various circumstances
that limit your rights. In particular, your rights might be
limited if you knew of the misrepresentation when you purchased
the securities.
If you intend to rely on the rights described in paragraph (a)
or (b) above, you must do so within strict time limitations.
Two-day cancellation right:
You may cancel your agreement to purchase these securities. To
do so, you must send a notice to the funding portal not later
than midnight on the second business day after you enter into
the agreement. If there is an amendment to this offering
document, you can cancel your agreement to purchase these
securities by sending a notice to the funding portal not later
than midnight on the second business day after the funding
portal provides you notice of the amendment."
Item 13: DATE AND CERTIFICATE
13.1
Include the following statement in bold type:
"This offering document does not contain a misrepresentation."
13.2
Provide the signature, date of the signature, name and position of
the authorized individual certifying this offering document.
13.3
If this offering document is signed electronically, include the
following statement in bold type:
"I acknowledge that I am signing this offering document
electronically and agree that this is the legal equivalent of my
handwritten signature."
