
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

British Columbia Transit Act


Commuter Rail Operating Agreement Regulation

B.C. Reg. 439/95

British Columbia Transit Act



Add-Fare

A fare category that allows the holder of a valid BC Transit
fare receipt/transfer, validated faresaver or monthly pass
credit toward the applicable West Coast Express fare.



Adult Fare

A fare category that includes any passenger who is not a child
or eligible for a concession fare as defined under this
Tariff.



Authority

BC Transit or any company operating transit services on behalf
of BC Transit.



Bicycle

A two-wheeled non-motorized pedal drive vehicle, specifically
excluding mopeds, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, tricycles
or bicycles designed for more than one person.



CNIB Pass

A non-transferable (non-photographic) card issued annually by
the CNIB (Canadian Institute for the Blind). Valid proof of
entitlement for West Coast Express Concession fare.



CareCard

The BC Care Card for Seniors issued by the provincial
government to persons over 65 years old. Valid proof of age
entitlement for West Coat Express concession fare.



Cash

Coins or printed currency issued by the Government of Canada
for use as legal tender.



Child

A person who is under fourteen (14) years of age.



Commuter Service

Commuter Service is the public passenger transportation system
providing commuter rail service between Waterfront station in
Vancouver and Mission City station.



Concession Fare

A fare category that includes children age five (5) to
thirteen (13) years, students age fourteen (14) to nineteen
(19) with a valid GoCard and persons in possession of a valid
CNIB pass, MSS pass, HandyPass, War Amputee pass or CareCard.



Customer IOU

An IOU issued at the sole discretion of a transit employee to
a passenger lacking sufficient funds to purchase the
applicable fare for travel on West Coast Express to be signed
by the passenger with the promise to pay to the Authority the
full fare at a specified date.



FareCard

A monthly transit pass issued by the Authority for travel on
the Vancouver Regional Transit System. Valid proof of
entitlement for West Coast Express add fare.



Fare Paid Zone

Any commuter rail passenger car or transit property or portion
to which access is restricted to persons in possession of
valid proof of payment.




Fare Receipt/Transfer


A printed receipt for fare payment issued by the Authority to
regulate and control travel and the payment of fares.



Fare Zones

Zone 1 — commuter service accessible at Waterfront station;

Zone 2 — commuter service through the City of Burnaby;

Zone 3 — commuter service accessible at Port Moody, Coquitlam
Central and Port Coquitlam stations;

Zone 4 — commuter service accessible at Pitt Meadows, Maple
Meadows and Port Haney stations;

Zone 5 — commuter service accessible at Mission station.



FastTrax Decal

Identification sticker issued by BC Transit available to full
time students of eligible public post-secondary institutions
from their student societies that confirms the bearer is
eligible to use a two-zone 28-day pass in all zones.



GoCard

Photographic identification cards issued by the Authority, its
contractors or school authorities that incorporate design
features specified and approved by BC Transit to identify
students eligible for concession fare.



HandyPass

Photographic identification cards issued by the Authority to
persons eligible to use custom transit service. Valid proof of
entitlement for concession fare. A person who accompanies and
assists a HandyPass holder may ride free.



Journey

A continuous trip made by a passenger within one or more fare
zones for which the required fare has been paid.



MSS Transit Pass

Identification cards issued by the Ministry of Social Services
with the authority of BC Transit that incorporates design
features specified and approved by BC Transit. Valid proof of
entitlement for concession fare.



Monthly Pass

A printed card issued by BC Transit, also called a FareCard in
the Vancouver Regional Transit Service area or SuperPass in
the Central Fraser Valley Service area, which entitles the
holder to unrestricted travel on the respective transit
systems subject to specific terms and conditions during the
month printed on the card.




Employee &

Family Member

Passes


Passes issued by BC Transit to eligible employees and one
designated family member.




Retired Employee Passes


Passes issued by BC Transit to an eligible retired employee
and his/her spouse.



Passenger

Any person using or attempting to use West Coast Express.



Proof of Payment

A valid add fare or ticket receipt, weekly pass, or 28-day
pass purchased from a West Coast Express ticket vending
machine, or other valid pass. Any proof of payment that has
been altered, defaced, duplicated, taped, waxed, or modified
in any other manner is invalid.



Statutory Holidays

New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C.
Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas
Day and Boxing Day.



Stored Value Card

A plastic card with an embedded computer chip sold by West
Coast Express that enables the purchaser to deposit (charge)
and recharge up to $100 in stored value from ticket vending
machines for future use when buying West Coast Express
add-fare, one-way and return tickets or weekly passes.



Student

A person who:

(i) at the start of the school year is between fourteen (14)
and nineteen (19) years of age, and

(ii) regularly attends classes at a public school up to and
including Grade 12 or at a private school where he/she is
receiving full time course or instruction leading to a high
school graduation certificate or the completion of Grade 12,
and

(iii) is a resident of the Vancouver Regional Transit Service
Area or Central Fraser Valley Transit Service Area.



Ticket

Printed piece of card or paper issued by the Authority
entitling the holder to access to a fare paid zone at a fare
equal to its face value.




Ticket Vending Machine


A mechanical device that issues ticket or pass fare receipts.



Transfer
See fare receipt/transfer.


Transit Employee

A person employed by the Authority or an operating company.




Validated Faresaver


A faresaver ticket that has been marked with the boarding
location, date, and time.



War Amputee Pass

An annual pass issued by BC Transit and distributed by the War
Amputations Association. Valid as proof of entitlement for
concession fare.


