
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Securities Act


National Instrument 33-109 Registration Information

B.C. Reg. 226B/2009






Part 9 – Certification








It is an offence under securities legislation and
derivatives legislation, including commodity futures
legislation, to give false or misleading information on
this form.








By signing below, you:

1. Certify to the regulator in each jurisdiction of Canada
where the firm is submitting and filing this form, either
directly or through the principal regulator, that:

• you have read this form, and

• to the best of your knowledge and after reasonable
inquiry, all of the information provided on this form is
true and complete.








2. Certify to each regulator in a non-principal jurisdiction
of Canada where the firm is submitting and filing this form,
either directly or through the principal regulator, that at
the date of this submission:


• the firm has submitted and filed all information required
to be submitted and filed under the securities legislation
or derivatives legislation or both of the principal
jurisdiction of Canada in relation to the firm's
registration in that jurisdiction, and


• this information is true and complete.








3. Authorize the principal regulator to give each
non-principal regulator access to any information the firm
has submitted or filed with the principal regulator under
securities legislation or derivatives legislation or both of
the principal jurisdiction of Canada in relation to the
firm's registration in that jurisdiction.








4. Acknowledge that the regulator may collect and provide
personal information about the individuals referred to in
this form under
Collection and use of personal information
.








5. Confirm that the individuals referred to in this form
have been notified that their personal information is
disclosed on this form, the legal reason for doing so, how
it will be used and who to contact for more information.










Name of firm



Name of firm's authorized signing officer or partner




Title of firm's authorized signing officer or partner



Signature


Date (yyyy/mm/dd)








The witness must be a lawyer,

notary public or commissioner

of oaths.





Witness




Name of witness


Title of witness


Signature


Date (yyyy/mm/dd)





