
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Securities Act


National Instrument 33-109 Registration Information

B.C. Reg. 226B/2009






Who should complete this form?


This form is for firms seeking registration under securities
legislation, derivatives legislation or both.


Complete and submit this form to seek initial registration
as a dealer, adviser or investment fund manager, or to add
one or more jurisdictions of Canada or categories to a
firm's registration.







Definitions

In this form:

Chief compliance officer – see section 2.1 of NI 31-103.


Derivatives – financial instruments, such as futures
contracts (including exchange traded contracts), futures
options and swaps whose market price, value or payment
obligations are derived from or based on one or more
underlying interests. Derivatives can be in the form of
instruments, agreements or securities.


Firm – the person or company seeking registration.


Foreign jurisdiction – see National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.


Form – Form 33-109F6
Firm Registration
.


Jurisdiction or jurisdiction of Canada – see National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.


NI 31-103 – National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing
Registrant Obligations

.


NI 33-109 – National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
.


NI 52-107 – National Instrument 52-107

Acceptable Accounting Principles and Auditing Standards

.


NRD – National Registration Database. For more information,
visit www.nrd-info.ca.


Parent – a person or company that directly or indirectly has
significant control of another person or company.

Permitted individual – see NI 33-109.

Predecessor – any entity listed in question 3.6 of this
form.

Principal regulator – see NI 33-109.






Significant control – a person or company has significant
control of another person or company if the person or
company:


• directly or indirectly holds voting securities
representing more than 20 percent of the outstanding voting
rights attached to all outstanding voting securities of the
other person or company, or


• directly or indirectly is able to elect or appoint a
majority of the directors (or individuals performing similar
functions or occupying similar positions) of the other
person or company.







Specified affiliate – a person or company that is a parent
of the firm, a specified subsidiary of the firm, or a
specified subsidiary of the firm's parent.







Specified subsidiary – a person or company of which another
person or company has significant control.


SRO – see National Instrument 14-101 Definitions.


Ultimate designated person – see section 2.1 of NI 31-103.


We and the regulator – the securities regulatory authority
or regulator in the jurisdiction(s) of Canada where the firm
is seeking registration.







You – the individual who completes, submits, files and/or
signs the form on behalf of the firm.







Contents of the form

This form consists of the following:
Part 1 – Registration details
Part 2 – Contact information
Part 3 – Business history and structure
Part 4 – Registration history
Part 5 – Financial condition
Part 6 – Client relationships
Part 7 – Regulatory action
Part 8 – Legal action
Part 9 – Certification

Schedule A – Contact information for notice of collection
and use of personal information


Schedule B – Submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
agent for service


Schedule C – Form 31-103F1
Calculation of Excess Working Capital


You are also required to submit the following supporting
documents with your completed form:


1. Schedule B – Submission to jurisdiction and appointment
of agent for service for each jurisdiction where the firm is
seeking registration (question 2.4)


2. Business plan, policies and procedures manual, and client
agreements (except in Ontario) (question 3.3)


3. Constating documents (question 3.7)


4. Organization chart (question 3.11)

5. Ownership chart (question 3.12)

6. Calculation of excess working capital (question 5.1)


7. Directors' resolution approving insurance (question 5.7)


8. Audited financial statements (question 5.13)


9. Letter of direction to auditors (question 5.14)






The firm is required to pay a registration fee in each
jurisdiction of Canada where it is submitting and filing
this form. Refer to the prescribed fees of the applicable
jurisdiction for details.




How to complete and submit the form


All dollar values are in Canadian dollars. If a question
does not apply to the firm, write "n/a" in the space for the
answer.


If the firm is seeking registration in more than one
jurisdiction of Canada or category, other than in the
category of restricted dealer, you only need to complete and
submit one form. If the firm is seeking registration as a
restricted dealer, submit and file the form with each
jurisdiction of Canada where the firm is seeking that
registration.

You can complete this form:

• on paper and deliver it to the principal regulator or
relevant SRO


• on paper, scan it and e-mail it to the principal regulator
or SRO







If the firm is seeking registration in Ontario, and Ontario
is not the firm's principal regulator, you must also file a
copy of this form, without supporting documents, with the
Ontario Securities Commission.


You can find contact information for submitting and filing
the form in Appendix B of Companion Policy 33-109CP
Registration Information
.







We may accept the form in other formats. Please check with
the regulator before you complete, submit and file the form.
If you are completing the form on paper and need more space
to answer a question, use a separate sheet of paper and
attach it to this form. Clearly identify the question
number.


You must include all supporting documents with your
submission. We may ask you to provide other information and
documents to help determine whether the firm is suitable for
registration.


In most of this form, answers are required to questions that
apply only to Canadian provinces and territories; you will
find that the questions are referenced to "jurisdictions" or
"jurisdiction of Canada". These refer to all provinces and
territories of Canada. However, the questions in Part 4 –
Registration History
and Part 7 –
Regulatory Action
are to be answered in respect of any jurisdiction in the
world.



It is an offence under securities legislation and
derivatives legislation, including commodity futures
legislation, to give false or misleading information on
this form.





See Part 3 of NI 33-109.


Updating the information on the form


The firm is required to notify the regulator, within
specified times, of any changes to the information on this
form by submitting and filing Form 33-109F5
Change of Registration Information
.








Collection and use of personal information



We and the SROs (if applicable) require personal information
about the people referred to in this form as part of our
review to determine whether the firm is suitable for
registration. If the firm is approved, we also require this
information to assess whether the firm continues to meet the
registration requirements.

We may only:

• collect the personal information under the requirements in
securities legislation or derivatives legislation or both


• use this information to administer and enforce provisions
of the securities legislation or derivatives legislation or
both.







We may collect personal information from police records,
records of other regulators or SROs, credit records,
employment records, government and private bodies or
agencies, individuals, corporations, and other
organizations. We may also collect personal information
indirectly.







We may provide personal information about the individuals
referred to in this form to other regulators, securities or
derivatives exchanges, SROs or similar organizations, if
required for an investigation or other regulatory issue.


If anyone referred to in this form has any questions about
the collection and use of their personal information, they
can contact the regulator or SRO, if applicable, in the
relevant jurisdiction of Canada. See Schedule A for details.
In Québec, they can also contact the Commission d'accès à
l'information du Québec at 1-888-528-7741 or visit its
website at www.cai.gouv.qc.ca.



