





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement




CHAPTER 11

MIGRATORY BIRDS




GENERAL



1. Tsawwassen First Nation has the right to harvest Migratory Birds for
Domestic Purposes in the Tsawwassen Migratory Bird Harvest Area
throughout the year in accordance with this Agreement.


2. The Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds is limited by
measures necessary for conservation, public health or public safety.


3. The Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds is held by Tsawwassen
First Nation and Tsawwassen First Nation may not Dispose of that right.


4. Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen Members have the right to
Trade and Barter Migratory Birds harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds, among themselves or with other aboriginal
people of Canada resident in British Columbia.


5. Tsawwassen First Nation may sell inedible by-products, including
down, of Migratory Birds harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds, in accordance with Federal and Provincial Law and a
Tsawwassen Law made under subclause 20.e.


6. Tsawwassen First Nation may sell Migratory Birds harvested under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds if the sale of Migratory
Birds is permitted under Federal and Provincial Law, and any such sale
will be in accordance with Federal and Provincial Law and a Tsawwassen
Law made under subclause 22.c.


7. This Agreement does not preclude Tsawwassen First Nation from
entering into an agreement with a federal department or agency in
respect of access and harvesting by Tsawwassen Members on land owned or
in use by that department or agency in accordance with that agreement
and Federal and Provincial Laws.


8. The Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds will be exercised in
a manner that does not interfere with authorized uses or Dispositions of
provincial Crown land existing as at the Effective Date or authorized in
accordance with clause 9.


9. British Columbia may authorize uses of or Dispose of provincial Crown
land and any authorized use or Disposition may affect the methods, times
and locations of the harvest under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds, provided that British Columbia ensures that those
authorized uses or Dispositions do not deny to Tsawwassen First Nation
the reasonable opportunity to harvest under the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds.


10. Upon six months notice by either Party, Tsawwassen First Nation and
British Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a
process to evaluate uses and Dispositions of provincial Crown land that
have the potential to deny to Tsawwassen First Nation the reasonable
opportunity to harvest under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.


11. Tsawwassen First Nation may exercise the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds on Private Lands, if the owner or occupant of that land
agrees to provide access.


12. Tsawwassen First Nation may exercise the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds on a Reserve, if the Indian Band for whom the Reserve is
set aside agrees to provide access.


13. Tsawwassen First Nation may exercise the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds on lands contained within a National Wildlife Area if
Canada agrees to provide access, and any such harvest will be in
accordance with Federal and Provincial Law.


14. The transport and export by Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen
Members of Migratory Birds or their inedible by-products, including
down, harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds
are subject to Federal and Provincial Law.


15. The Minister retains authority for managing and conserving Migratory
Birds and Migratory Bird habitat and will exercise that authority in a
manner that is consistent with this Agreement.


16. Neither Canada nor British Columbia will require a Tsawwassen Member
to have a licence or to pay a fee or royalty for harvesting Migratory
Birds under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.


17. Nothing in this Agreement affects the application of Federal or
Provincial Law in respect of the possession, use or regulation of
firearms.


18. This Agreement does not alter Federal or Provincial Law in respect
of property in Migratory Birds.


19. This Agreement does not preclude Tsawwassen Members from harvesting
Migratory Birds in Canada under:

a. Federal or Provincial Law;

b. an agreement, that is in accordance with Federal and Provincial Law,
between Tsawwassen First Nation and other aboriginal people; or


c. an arrangement between other aboriginal people and Canada or British
Columbia.




POWER TO MAKE LAWS



20. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the designation of Tsawwassen Members to harvest Migratory Birds
under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds;


b. the distribution among Tsawwassen Members of Migratory Birds
harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds;


c. the methods, timing, and location of the harvest of Migratory Birds
by Tsawwassen Members under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds;


d. the Trade and Barter of Migratory Birds harvested under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds; and


e. the sale of inedible by-products, including down, of Migratory Birds
harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.


21. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 20 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


22. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the management of Migratory Birds and Migratory Bird habitat on
Tsawwassen Lands;


b. the establishment and administration of licensing requirements for
the harvest of Migratory Birds under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds, including the issuance of documentation to identify
individuals designated by Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of that
harvest; and


c. the sale of Migratory Birds harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds.


23. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 22.




DOCUMENTATION



24. Tsawwassen First Nation will issue documentation to identify
individuals who are authorized by Tsawwassen First Nation to harvest
under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.


25. When harvesting under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds, an individual is required to produce, at the request of a person
authorized to enforce Federal Law, Provincial Law or Tsawwassen Law in
respect of Migratory Birds, the documentation referred to in clause 24.

26. Documentation issued under clause 24 will:

a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative and, at
the discretion of Tsawwassen First Nation, in the Hun'qum'i'num
language; and


b. include the name and address of the individual.




ENFORCEMENT



27. The Parties may negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in respect
of the enforcement of Federal Law, Provincial Law, and Tsawwassen Law in
respect of Migratory Birds.


28. Tsawwassen Laws made under this chapter may be enforced by persons
authorized to enforce Federal Law, Provincial Law, or Tsawwassen Law in
respect of Migratory Birds.




CONSERVATION MEASURES





Designated Migratory Bird Population



29. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation or the Minister, the
Parties will share information in respect of conservation for Migratory
Bird populations, including activities related to harvesting under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.


30. Where, in the opinion of a Party, there is a conservation risk to a
Migratory Bird population, that Party may make recommendations to the
Minister for the designation of that population as a Designated
Migratory Bird Population.


31. After Consulting with Tsawwassen First Nation, the Minister may
designate a Migratory Bird population as a Designated Migratory Bird
Population if the Minister determines that, in order to address a
conservation risk to that population, a Total Allowable Migratory Bird
Harvest of that Migratory Bird population is necessary.


32. The Minister, in determining the Total Allowable Migratory Bird
Harvest for a Designated Migratory Bird Population, will take into
account, among other things, the following:

a. recommendations from Tsawwassen First Nation;

b. the best available knowledge about the Designated Migratory Bird
Population, including aboriginal traditional knowledge;


c. continental and local conservation requirements; and


d. Canada's international commitments in respect of Migratory Birds.


33. In making an allocation for Tsawwassen First Nation from the Total
Allowable Migratory Bird Harvest for a Designated Migratory Bird
Population, the Minister will take into account the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds and, among other things, the following:


a. the Total Allowable Migratory Bird Harvest for that population;


b. current and past food, social or ceremonial needs, and harvesting
practices of Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of that population; and


c. other harvests of that population for food, social or ceremonial
purposes.


34. On the recommendation of a Party, the Minister may determine that
there is no longer a conservation risk to a Designated Migratory Bird
Population and remove the designation from that population.




Migratory Bird Agreements



35. The Parties may enter into an agreement on the conservation or
management of Migratory Birds, including a range of activities related
to achieving Migratory Bird population and habitat conservation
objectives, such as inventory, monitoring, assessment, research, harvest
allocation, regulation, compliance and enforcement, creation and
management of protected areas, stewardship, restoration, enhancement,
outreach and education on best practices.




CONSULTATION ON INTERNATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS ON MIGRATORY BIRDS



36. Canada will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation on the development
of Canada's positions in respect of international discussions or
negotiations that may adversely affect the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds.



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|

Schedule - Chapter 11 |


Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|



Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





