




View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 76/84


O.C. 518/84



Deposited March 19, 1984







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time





Wildlife Act




Closed Areas Regulation



[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]




Schedule 9



Firearms Using Shot Only Areas




(Section 10 (1) (a))









1



Those portions of the Province of British Columbia being all areas within 150 m of the travelled portion of the following highways:






(1)


Highway 1 from the eastern boundary of the corporation of the township of Chilliwack to the northern boundary of M.U. 2-18;






(2)


Highway 7 from the easterly boundary of Mission to its junction with Highway 1.






(3)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 10.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 46/89, s. 10; 459/90, s. 4.]








Pemberton





2



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of Pemberton within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the centrelines of Highway 99 and the British Columbia Railway right of way, within Lot 4096, Lillooet Land District; thence due North to the 450 m elevation contour; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said elevation contour to the point of intersection with the midline of Pemberton Creek; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said midline to the point of intersection with the 350 m elevation contour; thence in a general northwesterly direction along said elevation contour to the point due West of the intersection of the centreline of Pemberton Valley road and the midline of Ryan River; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the natural boundary of Ryan River, on the northern bank thereof; thence in a general southeasterly direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Lillooet River, on the western bank thereof; thence due East to the natural
boundary of Lillooet River, on the eastern bank thereof; thence in a general southeasterly direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of British Columbia Railway; thence in a general easterly and northerly direction along said right of way boundary to the point of intersection with the northern boundary of Mount Currie IR 10; thence easterly along said northern boundary and along the prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the boundary of Mount IR 6; thence easterly along the boundary of Mount Currie IR 6 to the point due North of the midline of Gravell Creek, at its confluence with Lillooet River; thence due South to said midline; thence in a general southerly direction along said midline to the 350 m elevation contour; thence in a general westerly direction along said elevation contour to the point of intersection with the boundary of Nairn Falls Provincial Park; thence southwesterly
along said boundary to the southwest corner of said Park; thence northerly in a straight line to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 7.]








Naramata





3



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of Naramata within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the intersection of the northern boundary of Lot 286, Similkameen District, and the eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake and proceeding southerly along the eastern natural boundary to the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek; thence proceeding northeasterly along the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek to its intersection with Chute Lake Road; thence proceeding southerly along the eastern edge of the travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to the southern boundary of Lot 1975, Similkameen District; thence proceeding east along the lot boundary to its intersection with the eastern boundary of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; thence proceeding southerly along the eastern boundary of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way to the northern boundary of the City of Penticton; thence proceeding west along the city boundary to the eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake; thence proceeding northerly along the eastern natural boundary of
Okanagan Lake to the southerly natural boundary of Arawana Creek; thence proceeding easterly along the southerly natural boundary of Arawana Creek to Old Main Road; thence proceeding easterly along the southern edge of the right of way of Old Main Road to Naramata Road; thence proceeding northerly along the eastern edge of the travelled portion of Naramata Road to Chute Lake Road; thence proceeding northerly along the eastern edge of the travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to the eastern boundary of Lot 286, Similkameen District; thence proceeding north along the lot boundary to the northern lot boundary of Lot 286, Similkameen District; thence proceeding west along the lot boundary to the point of commencement.








Barnston Island





4



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of the City of Vancouver within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at intersection of the southerly boundary of the District of Pitt Meadows and the northerly boundary of the District of Surrey, west of Barnston Island; thence easterly along the District of Pitt Meadows boundary to the point of its intersection with the northerly boundary of the District of Langley; thence westerly along the District boundary to its point of intersection with the northerly boundary of the District of Surrey; thence westerly along the District boundary to the point of commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands.








Repealed





5



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 5 (a).]








Repealed





6



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]








Cultus Lake





7



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of Cultus Lake within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the intersection of the 250 m contour line to the west of the Sweltzer River and the southerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence following the contour line southerly and westerly to its intersection with the northern boundary of the Cultus Lake Provincial Park; thence easterly, southerly and southeasterly following the boundary to its southwestern corner and its intersection with the 100 m contour line; thence westerly and southerly along the contour line to its intersection with Frosst Creek; thence southerly and easterly up Frosst Creek to its intersection with the 400 m contour line; thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the 400 m contour line to its intersection with the Department of National Defence's Military Reserve boundary; thence northerly and westerly along the Military Reserve boundary to its intersection with the Soowahlie Indian Reserve boundary; thence westerly and northerly along the Indian Reserve boundary to its
point of intersection with the southerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence westerly to the point of commencement.


[am. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 6 (a).]








Repealed





8



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 10.]








Nicomen





9



Those 2 portions of the Province of British Columbia in Fraser Valley Regional District within the following described boundaries:






(1)


Commencing at the intersection of Eagle Road and Highway 7; thence northerly along Eagle Road to a point 150 m north of the intersection of Eagle Road and Shore Road; thence in a straight line due West to a point at the high water mark on the natural boundary of Hatzic Lake; thence in a straight line northwesterly to the most easterly point of the northeast-southwest component of Sward Road; thence due West to the 20 m contour line; thence southerly along the contour line to its intersection with the boundary of the Municipality of Mission; thence westerly and northerly along the District boundary to the point of the boundary's intersection with the southerly natural boundary of Stave Lake; thence easterly along the natural boundary of Stave Lake; thence easterly along the natural boundary to the mouth of Davis Creek; thence easterly and northerly up the creek to the point of its intersection with the southerly boundary of Davis Lake Provincial Park; thence due East
and due North along the southerly and easterly boundaries of the park to the intersection of the easterly boundary of the park with the 200 meter contour line; thence southeasterly along the contour line to the point of its intersection with the 280 m contour line; thence southerly along that contour line to the point of its intersection with a point due East of the most easterly point on the southern boundary of the Hartley road right of way; thence in a straight line due West to the point of the line's intersection with the 120 m contour line; thence southerly and easterly along the contour line to the point of its intersection with Chilqua Creek; thence southerly down the creek to its intersection with the 20 m contour line; thence easterly along the contour line to its intersection with the westerly bank of Norrish Creek; thence due East to the 200 m contour line; thence easterly along the contour line to its intersection with Deroche Creek; thence southerly along the
natural boundary of Deroche Creek to its intersection with the 60 m contour line; thence due South to a point on North Nicomen Road at the westerly end of a curve approximately 350 m west of the intersection of Park Road and North Nicomen Road; thence easterly along the southern boundary of North Nicomen Road to its intersection with Deroche Creek; thence southerly along the western natural boundary of Deroche Creek to its intersection with Taylor Road; thence westerly along the northern boundary of Taylor Road to a point due North of the end of the western boundary of Ross Road; thence due South to the point of reference; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Ross Road to its intersection with Highway 7; thence easterly, northerly and westerly along Highway 7 to its intersection with the Canadian Pacific Railway; thence easterly along the railway to its intersection with Malcolm Road; thence northerly and southeasterly along Malcolm Road, approximately 1 km, to
its intersection with a dyke that commences at the base of the southwest corner of Harrison Hill; thence southerly and westerly along the dyke to its intersection with another dyke that runs generally westerly and northerly along the southerly boundary of Zaitscullachan slough; thence in a straight line due South to the northerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence westerly along the district boundary following the centre line of the Fraser River, to the intersection with the easterly boundary of the District of Mission; thence northwesterly, easterly and northerly along the district boundary to its intersection with Highway 7; thence easterly along Highway 7 to the point of commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands;






(2)


Commencing at the intersection of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way and the southeastern corner of the Squawkum Indian Reserve Number 3; thence northerly and easterly along the high water mark, which is the natural boundary of Harrison Bay, to its intersection with the right of way of Highway 7 at a point which is also on the natural boundary of the Harrison River; thence southeasterly along the bridge to the westerly boundary of the District of Kent; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southerly along the district boundary to the point of intersection with the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way; thence westerly along the southern boundary of the right of way to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 8; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 5 (b).]








Chilliwack Valley





10



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-3 in the vicinity of Chilliwack within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the intersection of the easterly boundary of the Soowahlie Number 14 Indian Reserve and the Chilliwack Lake Road; thence northerly along the Reserve boundary to its intersection with the southerly boundary of the District of Chilliwack; thence in an easterly direction along the District boundary to its intersection with an unnamed creek the mouth of which is located approximately 300 m southeasterly of the easterly end of O'Bryan Road (U.T.M. 50/10.5876.54370); thence southwesterly down the creek to its confluence with the Chilliwack River; thence along a line due South to the line's intersection with the southerly boundary of the Chilliwack Lake Road; thence westerly along the road right of way boundary to its intersection with a forestry access road on the south bank of the Chilliwack River which intersects the Chilliwack Lake Road at a point adjacent Tamihi Creek; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the forest access road to its
intersection with the Department of National Defence Military Reserve boundary; thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the boundary of the Military Reserve to its intersection with the easterly boundary of Soowahlie Indian Reserve Number 14; thence northerly along the Reserve boundary to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 25.]








Sechelt





11



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 on the Sechelt Peninsula within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at Daniel Point; thence northerly, easterly and southerly along the mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Lee Bay to the west end of Keelson Road; thence along the northerly and easterly boundary of the road to Crosstrees Road; thence easterly along its northerly boundary to Irvines Landing Road; thence easterly along the road to the point of its intersection with Mixal Road and Garden Bay Road; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Garden Bay Road to its intersection with Myers Creek; thence northeasterly up the Creek to its intersection with Highway 101; thence along the westerly boundary of Highway 101 to the most westerly point of the road approximately 2.2 kilometres north of its intersection with Myers Creek; thence in a straight line due northwest to the natural boundary of Sakinaw Lake; thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of the lake and its outlet stream to the mouth of the outlet stream; thence westerly and
southerly along the mean low water mark in the natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 26.]








Powell River





12



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12 in the vicinity of Powell River contained within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southerly natural boundary of Jefferd Creek where it flows into Thunder Bay; thence northerly up the creek to a point 500 m upstream of the right-of-way of BC Hydro powerline; thence westerly to its intersection with the Lois River; thence northerly and easterly along the west bank of the Lois River to the Lois Lake dam; thence along a straight line due West to a point 500 m north of the right-of-way of the BC Hydro power line; thence northwesterly parallel to the northerly boundary of the power line right of way at a perpendicular distance off 500 m from it to Kelly Creek; thence due South along a straight line to the southern boundary of the BC Hydro power line; thence northwesterly along the southern boundary of the British Columbia Hydro power line right of way to the southeasternmost bay of Hammil Lake; thence westerly and northwesterly along the mean low water mark of Hammil Lake to the outlet of Hammil
Lake; thence in a straight line due North to the mean low water mark of Haslam Lake; thence westerly along the mean low water mark of Haslam Lake to its westernmost point; thence in a straight line due northwest to the southwesternmost point of Schmarge Bay, north of Powell Hill; thence due West in a straight line to the easterly boundary of the Sliammon Indian Reserve Number 1; thence southerly along the reserve boundary to its intersection with the northerly boundary of the District Municipality of Powell River; thence easterly and southerly along the district boundary to a point on the boundary 500 m southerly from the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina Strait; thence generally southeasterly along a line 500 m from and parallel to the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina Strait to a point 500 m south of the southerly tip of an unnamed point of land which forms the westerly shore of Frolander Bay; thence due East to the natural
boundary of Frolander Bay; thence northeasterly along the base of a hill, which is located northeast of Frolander Bay, to the natural boundary of Thunder Bay; thence northerly along the mean low water mark on the natural boundary to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 27.]








Repealed





13



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 318/98, App. 2, s. 3.]








Sechelt





14



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 in the vicinity of the Sechelt Peninsula within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at a point on the mean high water mark at the tip of Francis Point and proceeding 500 metres offshore in a straight line perpendicular to the shoreline; thence proceeding generally easterly and southerly then northeasterly parallel to and 500 metres distant from the mean high water mark of the Sechelt Peninsula to a point 1 km east of the mouth of Rainy River; thence proceeding northerly in a straight line to a point on the mean high water mark of Sechelt Peninsula; thence proceeding generally southwesterly, westerly and northerly along the mean high water mark to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 28.]








Skaha Lake





15



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen Division of Yale Land District contained within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of the City of Penticton and the maximum high water mark of Skaha Lake on the easterly shore thereof and proceeding southerly, westerly and northerly along the maximum high water mark to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of the City of Penticton, thence southerly and easterly along the boundary to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 6 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 5.]








Repealed





16



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]








Lakelse Lake





17



That portion of M.U. 6-11 in the Province of British Columbia which is contained within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the confluence of the mean high water mark of Lakelse Lake and Schulbuckhand Creek; thence in a southeasterly direction along said creek to Highway 37A; thence southerly along said highway to the south boundary of Lot 2665; thence due West to the northeast corner of Lot 6808; thence due South to Clearwater Creek; thence in a northerly direction along the east bank of Clearwater Creek to the mean high water mark of Lakelse Lake; thence in a generally westerly, northerly, easterly and southerly direction along the mean high water mark of Lakelse Lake to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 7 (b); am. B.C. Reg. 189/2002, s. 3 (a).]








Repealed





18



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 318/98, App. 2, s. 3.]








Naikoon Park





19



Those portions of land in M.U. 6-13 in the Province of British Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:




Area 1 — North Area


Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof and the northerly boundary of Lot 1350 Queen Charlotte Land District; thence 50 metres easterly along the northerly boundary of Lot 1350 to a point; thence in a general northerly direction along a line 50 metres easterly of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Hecate Strait; thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Tlell River to the point of commencement.




Area 2 — South Area


Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof and the northerly boundary of Lot 59 Queen Charlotte Land District; thence 50 metres easterly along the northerly boundary of Lot 59 to a point; thence in a general northerly direction along a line 50 metres easterly of the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of intersection with the southerly boundary of Lot 1350; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of Lot 1350 to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of the Tlell River on the right bank thereof; thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Tlell River on the right bank thereof to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 14.]








Canal Flats





20



That portion of M.U. 4-25 which is contained within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the point of intersection of the northern boundary of SL72 with the natural boundary of Columbia Lake on the eastern bank thereof; thence easterly along the northern boundary of SL72 to the point of intersection with the 3 500 foot elevation contour; thence in a general southerly direction along said contour to the southwestern corner of Mount Sabine; thence due southwest to the point of intersection with the 2 900 foot elevation contour; thence in a general southerly direction along said contour to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the right of way of Kootenay River Forest Access Road; thence southerly and easterly along the eastern and northern boundaries of the right of way of said Access Road to the point of intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of Crestbrook Off-Highway Haul Road; thence due South to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Kootenay River on the northern bank thereof; thence
in a general westerly direction along the said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 93/95; thence northerly and westerly along the eastern and northern boundaries of said right of way to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Columbia Lake on the southern bank thereof; thence in a general easterly and northerly direction along the natural boundary of Columbia Lake to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 4.]








Repealed





21



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 6.]








Highways





22



Those portions of the Province of British Columbia being all areas within 0.4 km (0.25 mile) of either side of the road allowance of portions of the following highways and roads in British Columbia:






(a)


Highway 16 between the boundary of the City of Prince Rupert and the British Columbia-Alberta interprovincial boundary;






(b)


Highway 37 between the Skeena River Bridge at Kitwanga Post Office, Cassiar Land District, and the British Columbia-Yukon boundary;






(c)


Highway 97, including those portions of the Cariboo Highway from Cottonwood River to Prince George, the John Hart Highway from Prince George to Dawson Creek, and the Alaska Highway from Dawson Creek to Lower Post;






(d)


Highway 37 between the intersection of Highway 37 with Highway 16 and the boundary of the District of Kitimat;






(e)


Highway 29 between the intersection of Highway 29 with Highway 97 in the vicinity of the village of Chetwynd and the intersection of Highway 29 with Highway 97 in the vicinity of Charlie Lake, Peace River Land District;






(f)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 4.]






(g)


Highway 35 between Francois Lake and Burns Lake;






(h)


Highway 6 between Bench Creek and Banting Creek;






(i)


Tibbles Road in M.U. 5-13 from Nazko Road to 2000 Road;






(j)


Highway 5 (Coquihalla Highway) between Hope and the junction of Highways 1 and 5 at Kamloops;






(k)


Canyon Drive (Road 520) between Hudson's Hope and the W.A.C. Bennett Dam;






(l)


Twelve Mile Road (Road 190) between Canyon Drive (Road 520) and the boat ramp on Dunlevy inlet, and the unnamed road (formerly known as the 190A Road) from Twelve Mile Road (Road 190) to the bridge on Dunlevy Creek;






(m)


Highway 27, from the junction with Route 16 (Yellowhead) west of Vanderhoof to Fort St. James;






(n)


Highway 39, from the junction with Highway 97 north of McLeod Lake to its intercept with the municipal boundaries of the City of Mackenzie;






(o)


Tatlayoko Road (Project #405) from its intersection with the Eagle Main Road (Project #693) southerly to its end;






(p)


Robertson Road (Project #249), and any side roads to Robertson Road, from its intersection with Highway 97 at District Lot 61, Cariboo Land District, northerly to its intersection again with Highway 97 at the village of McLeese Lake;






(q)


Horn-Bluff Lakes Road (Highway #341) from a point south 89° 29' 20" east of the southwest corner of Lot 172, Range 2, Coast Land District, along the midline of Highway #341 to the point of intersection with the south boundary of Lot 791;






(r)


Highway 37A between the intersection of said highway and Highway 37 at Meziadin Junction and the boundary of the District of Stewart at Bitter Creek;






(s)


Topley Landing Road (Highway 118) between Topley and Granisle;






(t)


West Fraser Road from City of Quesnel city limits southerly to Grouse Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 10; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 29; 235/97, s. 5 (c); 225/98, s. 6 (b); 170/2001, s. 4; 221/2005, s. 4; 130/2016, App. 1, s. 5; 169/2020, App. 1, s. 4.]








Savary Island





23



That portion of the Province of British Columbia which is contained within the following described boundary:


The mean low water mark of Savary Island.


[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 30.]








Repealed





24



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 4.]








Port Clements





25



That portion of M.U. 6-13 on the east side of Masset Inlet, Queen Charlotte District, which is contained within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at a point 1 km due North of the most northerly part of Lot 420; thence due South to the most northerly point of Lot 420 at the high water mark; thence due West 100 metres; thence proceeding southeasterly, remaining 100 metres west of the high water mark of Kumdis Bay, to the intersection with Highway 16 in Lot 414; thence easterly along Highway 16 for approximately 100 metres, to the east end of the bridge that crosses Kumdis Creek, to a point at the mean high water mark, on the east shore of Kumdis Creek; thence following the mean high water mark of Kumdis Creek and Kumdis Bay in northeasterly, northerly and northwesterly directions along the mean high water mark of Kumdis Bay to a point due East of the most northerly point of Lot 420; thence due West to the point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 7 (c).]








Stamp Lagoon





26



That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-07 in the vicinity of Port Alberni within the following described boundaries:




Commencing at the confluence of Turtle Creek and Stamp River; thence due North to a point 100 metres north of the Stamp River; thence westerly at a distance of 100 metres from the northerly shoreline of the Stamp River to a point 100 metres due North of where the Stamp River enters Stamp Lagoon on the east side of the lagoon; thence westerly at a distance of 100 metres from the northerly shoreline of Stamp Lagoon to a point 100 metres north of where the Stamp River enters Stamp Lagoon on the west side of the lagoon; thence southerly to a point 100 metres due South of the Stamp River; thence easterly at a distance of 100 metres from the southerly shoreline of Stamp Lagoon to a point 100 metres due South of where the Stamp River enters Stamp Lagoon on the east side of the lagoon; thence easterly at a distance of 100 metres from the southerly shoreline of the Stamp River to a point due South of the confluence of Turtle Creek and Stamp River; thence northerly to the
point of commencement.


[en. B.C. Reg. 189/2002, s. 3 (b).]








Campbell River to Nanaimo





27



Those portions of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-27/22', other than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the


Indian Act


(Canada).


[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]








Quadra Island





28



That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Quadra Island, lying above the mean high water mark and south of the midline of North Gowland Harbour Road and Lakberg Road.


[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]








Nanaimo to Ladysmith





29



That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-29/22', other than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the


Indian Act


(Canada).


[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]








Ladysmith to Malahat





30



That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island shown outlined in red on the attached map 'Closed Area 9-30/22', other than a portion of land that is reserve within the meaning of the


Indian Act


(Canada).


[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 6.]





Contents

|



Sections 1 to 12

|



Schedule 1

|



Schedule 2

|



Schedule 3

|



Schedule 4

|



Schedule 5 to 5.1

|



Schedule 6

|



Schedule 7

|



Schedule 8

|



Schedule 8.1

|


Schedule 9
|



Schedule 10 to 13

|



Schedule 14

|



Schedule 15





