

National Instrument 33-109

Registration Information


Securities Act






Who should complete this form?


This form is for firms seeking registration under securities
legislation, derivatives legislation or both.


Complete and submit this form to seek initial registration as a
dealer, adviser or investment fund manager, or to add one or
more jurisdictions of Canada or categories to a firm's
registration.







Definitions

In this form:

Chief compliance officer — see section 2.1 of NI 31-103.


Derivatives — financial instruments, such as futures contracts
(including exchange traded contracts), futures options and swaps
whose market price, value or payment obligations are derived
from or based on one or more underlying interests. Derivatives
can be in the form of instruments, agreements or securities.


Firm — the person or company seeking registration.


Foreign jurisdiction — see National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.


Form — Form 33-109F6
Firm Registration
.


Jurisdiction or jurisdiction of Canada — see National Instrument
14-101
Definitions
.


NI 31-103 — National Instrument 31-103

Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations

.


NI 33-109 — National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
.


NI 52-107 — National Instrument 52-107

Acceptable Accounting Principles and Auditing Standards

.


NRD — National Registration Database. For more information,
visit

www.nrd-info.ca.



Parent — a person or company that directly or indirectly has
significant control of another person or company.

Permitted individual — see NI 33-109.

Predecessor — any entity listed in question 3.6 of this form.

Principal regulator — see NI 33-109.






Significant control — a person or company has significant
control of another person or company if the person or company:


• directly or indirectly holds voting securities representing
more than 20 percent of the outstanding voting rights attached
to all outstanding voting securities of the other person or
company, or


• directly or indirectly is able to elect or appoint a majority
of the directors (or individuals performing similar functions or
occupying similar positions) of the other person or company.







Specified affiliate — a person or company that is a parent of
the firm, a specified subsidiary of the firm, or a specified
subsidiary of the firm's parent.







Specified subsidiary — a person or company of which another
person or company has significant control.


SRO — see National Instrument 14-101
Definitions
.


Ultimate designated person — see section 2.1 of NI 31-103.


We and the regulator — the securities regulatory authority or
regulator in the jurisdiction(s) of Canada where the firm is
seeking registration.







You — the individual who completes, submits, files and/or signs
the form on behalf of the firm.







Contents of the form

This form consists of the following:

Collection and use of personal information Certification

Part 1 — Registration details
Part 2 — Contact information
Part 3 — Business history and structure
Part 4 — Registration history
Part 5 — Financial condition
Part 6 — Client relationships
Part 7 — Regulatory action
Part 8 — Legal action
Part 9 — [Repealed]

Schedule A — Contact information for consent and notice of
collection and use of personal information


Schedule B — Submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent
for service


Schedule C — Form 31-103F1
Calculation of Excess Working Capital


You are also required to submit the following supporting
documents with your completed form:


1. Schedule B — Submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
agent for service for each jurisdiction where the firm is
seeking registration (question 2.4)


2. Business plan, policies and procedures manual, and client
agreements (except in Ontario) (question 3.3)

3. Constating documents (question 3.7)
4. Organization chart (question 3.11)
5. Ownership chart (question 3.12)

6. Calculation of excess working capital (question 5.1)


7. Directors' resolution approving insurance (question 5.7)


8. Audited financial statements (question 5.13)


9. Letter of direction to auditors (question 5.14)






The firm is required to pay a registration fee in each
jurisdiction of Canada where it is submitting and filing this
form. Refer to the prescribed fees of the applicable
jurisdiction for details.




How to complete and submit the form


All dollar values are in Canadian dollars. If a question does
not apply to the firm, write "n/a" in the space for the answer.


If the firm is seeking registration in more than one
jurisdiction of Canada or category, other than in the category
of restricted dealer, you only need to complete and submit one
form. If the firm is seeking registration as a restricted
dealer, submit and file the form with each jurisdiction of
Canada where the firm is seeking that registration.

You can complete this form:

•  on paper and deliver it to the principal regulator
or relevant SRO


•  on paper, scan it and e-mail it to the principal
regulator or SRO







If the firm is seeking registration in Ontario, and Ontario is
not the firm's principal regulator, you must also file a copy of
this form, without supporting documents, with the Ontario
Securities Commission.


You can find contact information for submitting and filing the
form in Appendix B of Companion Policy 33-109CP
Registration Information
.







We may accept the form in other formats. Please check with the
regulator before you complete, submit and file the form. If you
are completing the form on paper and need more space to answer a
question, use a separate sheet of paper and attach it to this
form. Clearly identify the question number.


You must include all supporting documents with your submission.
We may ask you to provide other information and documents to
help determine whether the firm is suitable for registration.


In most of this form, answers are required to questions that
apply only to Canadian provinces and territories; you will find
that the questions are referenced to "jurisdictions" or
"jurisdiction of Canada". These refer to all provinces and
territories of Canada. However, the questions in Part 4 —
Registration History
and Part 7 —
Regulatory Action
are to be answered in respect of any jurisdiction in the world.



It is an offence to knowingly give false or misleading
information to the regulator or securities regulatory
authority.








Updating the information on the form




See Part 3 of NI 33-109.

The firm is required to notify the regulator, within specified
times, of any changes to the information on this form by
submitting and filing Form 33-109F5
Change of Registration Information
.






Collection and use of personal information


In obtaining information about the firm, each securities
regulatory authority and SRO set out in Appendix A may receive
and collect personal information about individuals, if any,
associated with the firm and its directors, officers, partners,
employees, contractors and agents.

This may include the collection of

•  the personal information provided in this form,


•  registration or financial services licensing
information,


•  personal information available online,


•  records from governmental or regulatory
authorities, SROs or professional bodies, or


•  records of, and used in, court proceedings,
including probation records.


Any of the securities regulatory authorities or SROs set out in
Schedule A may contact governmental or regulatory authorities,
private bodies or agencies, individuals, corporations,
employers, and other organizations, in Canada and in other
countries, for information about the individual.


This personal information is being collected under the authority
of the applicable securities legislation, derivatives
legislation (including commodity futures legislation), or both
of the securities regulatory authorities and under the SRO rules
of an SRO set out in Schedule A. The collection, use and
disclosure are done in accordance with applicable freedom of
information and privacy legislation.


The principal purpose of this collection by the securities
regulatory authorities is to administer, enforce, carry out
their duties or exercise their powers under their respective
securities legislation, derivatives legislation (including
commodity futures legislation) or both, and for the SROs to
administer and enforce the rules of the SROs.

The information may be collected

•  at the time of the firm's application,


•  at any time during the firm's registration, or


•  at the time the regulator or, in Québec, the
securities regulatory authority, or the SRO is informed by the
firm that it is surrendering its registration.


If you or anyone referred to in this form has any questions
about the collection, use, and disclosure of this information,
you or they can contact the regulator or, in Québec, the
securities regulatory authority, or SRO in any jurisdiction in
which the required information is submitted. See Schedule A for
details.


Certain registration information about the firm and its
registered individuals will be listed in a publicly available
registry, including names used by the firm, the address of the
firm's head office, whether the firm is on the Disciplined List,
the jurisdictions and categories in which the firm is
registered, and whether any terms and conditions have been
imposed on the firm's registration, and the firm's registered
individuals.


Certain securities regulatory authorities may provide to or
receive from certain entities information under separate
provisions of their securities legislation or derivatives
legislation (including commodity futures legislation) or both,
and SROs may provide or receive information under the rules of
the SROs. This consent and notice does not limit the authority,
powers, obligations, or rights conferred on any of the
securities regulatory authorities by legislation or regulations
in effect in their jurisdiction.



