

National Instrument 81-101

Mutual Fund Prospectus Disclosure


Securities Act




(1)



This Form describes the disclosure required in a simplified
prospectus of a mutual fund. Each Item of this Form outlines
disclosure requirements. Instructions as to how you are to
provide this disclosure are printed in italic type.





(2)



Terms defined in National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund
Prospectus Disclosure, National Instrument 81-102 Investment
Funds or National Instrument 81-105 Mutual Fund Sales Practices
and used in this Form have the meanings that they have in those
national instruments.





(3)



A simplified prospectus must state the required information
concisely and in plain language.





(4)



Respond as simply and directly as is reasonably possible.
Include only as much information as is necessary for an
understanding of the fundamental and particular characteristics
of the mutual fund. Brevity is especially important in
describing practices or aspects of a mutual fund's operations
that are materially the same as those of other mutual funds.





(5)



National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund Prospectus Disclosure
requires the simplified prospectus to be presented in a format
that assists in readability and comprehension. This Form does
not mandate the use of a specific format to achieve these goals.
However, mutual funds are encouraged to use, as appropriate,
tables, captions, bullet points or other organizational
techniques that assist in presenting the required disclosure
clearly and concisely.





(6)



Each Item must be presented under the heading or sub-heading
stipulated in this Form; references to the relevant Item number
are optional. If no sub-heading for an Item is stipulated in
this Form, a mutual fund may include sub-headings, under the
required headings, at its option.





(7)



A simplified prospectus may contain photographs and artwork only
if they are relevant to the business of the mutual fund, mutual
fund family or members of the organization of the mutual fund
and are not misleading.





(8)



Any footnotes to tables provided for under any Item in this Form
may be deleted if the substance of the footnotes is otherwise
provided.





Contents of a Simplified Prospectus




(9)



A simplified prospectus consists of two sections, a Part A
section and a Part B section.





(10)



The Part A section of a simplified prospectus contains the
response to the Items in Part A of this Form and contains
introductory information about the mutual fund, general
information about mutual funds and information applicable to the
mutual funds managed by the mutual fund organization.





(11)



The Part B section of a simplified prospectus contains the
response to the Items in Part B of this Form and contains
specific information about the mutual fund to which the
simplified prospectus pertains.





(12)



Despite securities legislation, a simplified prospectus must
present each Item in the Part A section and each Item in the
Part B section in the respective order provided for in this
Form.






Consolidation of Simplified Prospectuses into a Multiple SP





(13)



Subsection 5.1 (1) of National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund
Prospectus Disclosure states that simplified prospectuses must
not be consolidated to form a multiple SP unless the Part A
sections of each simplified prospectus are substantially
similar. The Part A sections in a consolidated document need not
be repeated. These provisions permit a mutual fund organization
to create a document that contains the disclosure for a number
of mutual funds in the same family.





(14)



Subsection 5.1 (4) of National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund
Prospectus Disclosure states that a simplified prospectus of an
alternative mutual fund must not be consolidated with a
simplified prospectus of another mutual fund that is not an
alternative mutual fund.





(15)



As with a single SP, a multiple SP consists of two Parts:






1.



A Part A section that contains general information about the
mutual funds, or the mutual fund family, described in the
document.






2.



A number of Part B sections, each of which provides specific
information about one mutual fund. The Part B sections must not
be consolidated with each other so that, in a multiple SP,
information about each mutual fund described in the document
must be provided on a fund-by-fund or catalogue basis and set
out for each mutual fund separately the information required
under Part B of this Form. Each Part B section must start on a
new page.





(16)



Section 5.3 of National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund Prospectus
Disclosure permits the Part B sections of a multiple SP to be
bound separately from the Part A section of the document. If one
Part B section is bound separately from the Part A section of
the document, all Part B sections must be separate from the Part
A section of the document.





(17)



Subsection 5.3 (2) of National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund
Prospectus Disclosure permits Part B sections that have been
bound separately from the related Part A section to be bound
either individually or together, at the option of the mutual
fund organization. There is no prohibition against the same Part
B section of a multiple SP being bound by itself for
distribution to some investors, and also being bound with the
Part B section of other mutual funds for distribution to other
investors.





(18)



Section 3.2 of National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund Prospectus
Disclosure provides that the requirement under securities
legislation to deliver a preliminary prospectus for a mutual
fund will be satisfied by the delivery of a preliminary
simplified prospectus, either with or without the documents
incorporated by reference. Mutual fund organizations that bind
separately the Part B sections of a multiple SP from the Part A
section are reminded that, since a simplified prospectus
consists of a Part A section and a Part B section, delivery of
both sections is necessary in order to satisfy the delivery
obligations in connection with the sale of securities of a
particular mutual fund.





(19)



Part A of this Form generally refers to disclosure required for
a mutual fund in a simplified prospectus. Modify the disclosure
as appropriate to reflect multiple mutual funds covered by a
multiple SP.





(20)



A mutual fund that has more than one class or series of
securities that are referable to the same portfolio may treat
each class or series as a separate mutual fund for the purposes
of this Form, or may combine disclosure of one or more of the
classes or series in one simplified prospectus. If disclosure
pertaining to more than one class or series is combined in one
simplified prospectus, separate disclosure in response to each
Item in this Form must be provided for each class or series
unless the responses would be identical for each class or
series.





(21)



As provided in National Instrument 81-102 Investment Funds, a
section, part, class or series of a class of securities of a
mutual fund that is referable to a separate portfolio of assets
is considered to be a separate mutual fund. Those principles are
applicable to National Instrument 81-101 Mutual Fund Prospectus
Disclosure and this Form.



