

National Instrument 45-110


Start-up Crowdfunding Registration

and Prospectus Exemptions



Securities Act




Item 2: THE ISSUER



2.1

Provide the following information about the issuer:





(a)

full legal name as it appears in the issuer's articles of
incorporation, limited partnership agreement or other organizing
documents, as the case may be;





(b)
head office address;




(c)
telephone;




(d)
email address;




(e)
website URL.




Instructions: The head office is where the individuals managing
the issuer, including the CEO, maintain their offices. This may
be the same as, or different from, the registered office
address, depending on the legal structure of the issuer. The
address of the head office must be a physical address and not a
post office (P.O.) box.




2.2

Provide the following information for a contact person of the
issuer who is able to answer questions from purchasers and the
securities regulatory authority or regulator:





(a)

full legal name (first name, middle name and last name);





(b)

position held with the issuer;





(c)
business address;




(d)
business telephone;




(e)
email address.




Item 3: ISSUER'S BUSINESS



3.1

Describe the issuer's business. Provide enough detail for an
investor to clearly understand what the issuer does or intends to
do.




Instructions:




(1) Answer the following questions if applicable:





•


Does or will the issuer build, design or develop something? Will
it sell something produced by others? Will it provide a service?






•


What are the key details about the issuer's industry and
operations? What makes the issuer's business special and
different from other competitors in the industry?






•


What milestones has the issuer already reached and what do they
hope to achieve in the next 2 years? E.g., Complete testing,
find a manufacturer, commence a marketing campaign or buy
inventory. What is the proposed timeline for achieving each of
the milestones?






•


What are the major hurdles that the issuer expects to face in
achieving its milestones?






•


How are the funds raised from this financing expected to help
the issuer advance its business and achieve one or more of the
milestones?






•


Has the issuer entered any contracts that are important to its
business?






•

Has the issuer conducted any operations yet?





•


Where does the issuer see its business in 3, 5 and 10 years?






•


What are the issuer's future plans and hopes for its business
and how does it plan to get there?






•


What is the issuer's management experience in running a business
or in the same industry?






•


Does the issuer have business premises from which it can operate
its business?






•


How many employees does the issuer have? How many does it need?





(2)



Do not refer to a measure of financial performance, financial
position or cash flow in the offering document unless (i) the
issuer has made financial statements available for the most
recently completed financial year, and (ii) the measure referred
to in the offering document is an amount presented in the
financial statements or is reconciled to an amount presented in
the financial statements.





(3)



An issuer must have operations other than to identify and
evaluate assets or a business with a view to completing an
investment in, merger with, amalgamation with or acquisition of
a business, or a purchase of the securities of one or more other
issuers. If it has no other operations, it must not raise
capital using start-up crowdfunding.




3.2

Describe the legal structure of the issuer and indicate the
jurisdiction where the issuer is incorporated or organized.




Instructions:




(1)



Indicate whether the issuer is a corporation, a limited
partnership, a general partnership, an association (as defined
under the Instrument) or other.





(2)



Indicate the province, territory or state where the issuer is
incorporated or organized.




3.3

Indicate where the issuer's articles of incorporation, limited
partnership agreement, shareholder agreement or similar document
is available for purchasers to review.





Instruction: You may provide online access to these documents
for investors.




3.4

Indicate which statement(s) best describe(s) the issuer's
operations (select all that apply)





The issuer










has never conducted operations,









is in the development stage,









is currently conducting operations.



3.5

Indicate whether the issuer has financial statements available. If
yes, include the following statement, in bold type:






"Information for purchasers: If you receive financial statements
from an issuer conducting a crowdfunding distribution, you
should know that those financial statements have not been
provided to or reviewed by a securities regulatory authority or
regulator. They are not part of this offering document. You
should also consider seeking advice from an accountant or an
independent financial adviser about the information in the
financial statements."





Instructions:




(1)



Any financial statements made available in connection with the
start-up crowdfunding distribution must be prepared in
accordance with Canadian GAAP. These financial statements must
present the issuer's results of operations for its most recently
completed financial year.





(2)



If an auditor has issued an auditor's report on the financial
statements, it must be included with the financial statements.





(3)



If the financial statements were not audited, the issuer must
label the financial statements as unaudited.




3.6

Describe the number and type of securities of the issuer
outstanding as at the date of the offering document. If there are
securities outstanding other than the eligible securities being
offered, describe those securities.





Item 4: MANAGEMENT



4.1

Provide the information in the following table for each founder,
director, officer and control person of the issuer:


