





View Complete Statute



Strata Property Act
[SBC 1998] CHAPTER 43



Part 3 — The Owner Developer



Division 1 — General





Owner developer's control of strata corporation




5

(1)


The owner developer must exercise the powers and perform the duties of
a council from the time the strata corporation is established until a
council is elected at the strata corporation's first annual general
meeting.




(2)

In exercising the powers and performing the duties of a council, the
owner developer need not comply with bylaw requirements respecting the
constitution of the council or the holding or conduct of council
meetings.






Owner developer's standard of care




6

(1)


In exercising the powers and performing the duties of a council, the
owner developer must




(a)

act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of
the strata corporation, and




(b)

exercise the care, diligence and skill of a reasonably prudent person
in comparable circumstances.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the owner developer must make
reasonable efforts to pursue any remedies under warranties in
existence with respect to the construction of the common property and
common assets.




(3)

Sections 32 and 33 do not apply to an owner developer exercising the
powers and performing the duties of the council, as long as the owner
developer complies with subsection (1) of this section.




Division 2 — The Owner Developer and the Strata Corporation Before
Strata Lots are Conveyed





Owner developer to pay expenses




7


The owner developer must pay the actual expenses of the strata
corporation that accrue in the period up to the last day of the month
in which the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser occurs.






Passing resolutions before first conveyance




8


Before the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser, the owner
developer may pass any resolution of the strata corporation permitted
or required by this Act or the regulations, including a resolution to
amend the strata corporation's bylaws under section 127, without
holding a special general meeting.




Division 3 — The Owner Developer and the Strata Corporation After the
First Conveyance





Owner developer may be restricted




9


In exercising the powers and performing the duties of a council after
the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser, the owner
developer is subject to a direction or restriction under
section 27 as if the owner developer were a council.






Restriction on contracting powers




10


In the period after the first conveyance of a strata lot to a
purchaser but before the first annual general meeting, no contract or
transaction may be entered into by or on behalf of the strata
corporation with either the owner developer or a person who is not at
arm's length to the owner developer, unless the contract or
transaction is approved by a resolution passed by a unanimous vote at
a special general meeting.






Passing resolutions after first conveyance




11


In the period after the first conveyance of a strata lot to a
purchaser but before the first annual general meeting, the strata
corporation may pass a resolution requiring a 3/4 vote as
follows:




(a)

for a resolution to amend the bylaws under section 127 (2) or (4) (b),
the resolution may be passed in accordance with section 127 (2) or (4)
(b), as applicable;




(b)

[Repealed 2022-41-6.]




(c)

for any other resolution requiring a 3/4 vote, the resolution must be
passed by a unanimous vote at a special general meeting.






Owner developer to establish contingency reserve fund




12

(1)


At the time of the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser,
the owner developer must establish a contingency reserve fund by
paying into the fund an amount calculated according to this section.




(2)

If the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser occurs no later
than one year after the deposit of the strata plan, the minimum
contribution to the fund must be
the prescribed percentage
of the estimated operating expenses as set out in the interim budget
referred to in section 13.




(3)

If the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser occurs later
than one year after the deposit of the strata plan, the minimum
contribution to the fund must be the lesser of




(a)

the prescribed percentage
of the estimated annual operating expenses as set out in the interim
budget referred to in section 13 multiplied by the number of
years or partial years since the deposit of the strata plan, and




(b)

the prescribed percentage
of the estimated annual operating expenses as set out in the interim
budget referred to in section 13.




(4)

The owner developer must not use money in the contingency reserve fund
to pay strata corporation expenses.




(5)

The contingency reserve fund belongs to the strata corporation.






Interim budget following first conveyance




13

(1)


The owner developer must




(a)

prepare an interim budget for the strata corporation for the 12 month
period beginning the first day of the month following the month in
which the first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser occurs, and




(b)

deliver a copy of the interim budget to each prospective purchaser of
a strata lot before the prospective purchaser signs an agreement of
purchase and sale.




(2)

The interim budget must include




(a)

the estimated operating expenses of the strata corporation for the 12
month period,




(b)

the contribution to the contingency reserve fund for the 12 month
period, which must be at least
the prescribed percentage
of the estimated operating expenses, and




(c)

each strata lot's monthly share of the estimated operating expenses
and contribution to the contingency reserve fund, calculated in
accordance with section 99.






Payments during period of interim budget




14

(1)


The strata corporation must pay the expenses that accrue in the period
beginning the first day of the month following the month in which the
first conveyance of a strata lot to a purchaser occurs until the date
the first annual budget takes effect.




(2)

During the period referred to in subsection (1), the owners must pay
to the strata corporation, each month, their monthly share of the
estimated operating expenses of the strata corporation and
contribution to the contingency reserve fund as set out in the interim
budget.




(3)

The strata corporation must not use money in the contingency reserve
fund to pay expenses that accrue before the owners approve the first
annual budget.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), if the expenses accrued by the strata
corporation, for the period referred to in subsection (1), are greater
than the operating expenses estimated in the interim budget for that
period, the owner developer must pay the difference to the strata
corporation within 8 weeks after the first annual general meeting.




(5)

If the accrued expenses referred to in subsection (4) are 10% or more
greater than the operating expenses estimated in the interim budget
for that period, the owner developer must include in the payment
referred to in subsection (4) an additional amount calculated
according to the regulations.




(6)

If the expenses accrued by the strata corporation, for the period
referred to in subsection (1), are less than the operating expenses
estimated in the interim budget for that period, the strata
corporation must refund the difference to the owners in amounts
proportional to their contributions.




(7)

Despite subsection (6), if no owner is entitled to receive more than
$100 in total under subsection (6), the strata corporation may deposit
the difference in the contingency reserve fund.




(8)

If no budget is approved at the first annual general meeting, the
period referred to in subsections (4), (5) and (6) ends at the first
annual general meeting.






Minimum period of insurance coverage




15


The owner developer must ensure that the term of any insurance policy
entered into by or on behalf of the strata corporation continues for
at least 4 weeks after the first annual general meeting.






First annual general meeting to be held by owner developer




16

(1)


The owner developer must hold the first annual general meeting during
the 6 week period that begins on the earlier of




(a)

the date on which 50% plus one of the strata lots have been conveyed
to purchasers, and




(b)

the date that is 9 months after the date of the first conveyance of a
strata lot to a purchaser.




(2)

The owner developer must give notice of the meeting in accordance with
section 45 and must include with the notice the budget and
financial statement referred to in section 21.






Owners may hold first annual general meeting




17


If the owner developer does not hold the first annual general meeting
as required by section 16,




(a)

an owner may hold the first annual general meeting after giving notice
in accordance with section 45 to the persons referred to in
section 45 and to the owner developer, and




(b)

the owner developer must pay to the strata corporation an amount
calculated according to the regulations.






Money owed by owner developer




18


Amounts payable by the owner developer under sections 14 (4) and (5)
and 17 (b) are money owing to the strata corporation, and sections 112
to 118 apply.






Chair of first annual general meeting




19


The chair of the first annual general meeting is




(a)

the owner developer acting personally or through an agent, or




(b)

if the owner developer or the agent is unwilling or unable to act as
chair, an individual elected by eligible voters who are present in
person or by proxy at the meeting.






Business at first annual general meeting




20

(1)


At the first annual general meeting, the eligible voters must elect a
council, for a term of one year, in accordance with section 25.




(2)

At the first annual general meeting, the owner developer must




(a)

place before the meeting and give the strata corporation copies of all
of the following:




(i)

all plans that were required to obtain a building permit and any
amendments to the building permit plans that were filed with the
issuer of the building permit;




(ii)

any document in the owner developer's possession that indicates the
actual location of a pipe, wire, cable, chute, duct or other facility
for the passage or provision of systems or services, if the owner
developer has reason to believe that the pipe, wire, cable, chute,
duct or other facility is not located as shown on a plan or plan
amendment filed with the issuer of the building permit;




(iii)

all contracts entered into by or on behalf of the strata corporation;




(iv)

any disclosure statement required by the

Real Estate Development Marketing Act

;




(v)

the registered strata plan as obtained from the land title office;




(vi)

names and addresses of all contractors, subcontractors and persons who
supplied labour or materials to the project, as required by the
regulations;




(vii)

all warranties, manuals, schematic drawings, operating instructions,
service guides, manufacturers' documentation and other similar
information respecting the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance, repair and servicing of any common property or common
assets, including any warranty information provided to the owner
developer by a person referred to in paragraph (vi);




(viii)

all records required to be prepared or retained by the strata
corporation under section 35;




(ix)

any other records required by the regulations, and




(b)

place an annual budget, prepared in accordance with section 21,
before the meeting for approval.




(3)

If the owner developer contravenes subsection (2) (a) and the strata
corporation must pay money to obtain a document referred to in that
provision, the amount of the payment is money owing to the strata
corporation by the owner developer, and sections 112 to
118 apply.






First annual budget requirements




21

(1)


The first annual budget must be for the 12 month period beginning on
the first day of the month following the date of the first annual
general meeting.




(2)

The first annual budget must be distributed with the notice of the
first annual general meeting under section 45 and must be
accompanied by a financial statement.




(3)

The budget and financial statement




(a)

must contain the information required by the regulations, and




(b)

may be in the form set out in the regulations.




(4)

Approval of the first annual budget must be by a resolution passed by
a majority vote.




(5)

The proposed budget may be amended by a majority vote at the first
annual general meeting before the budget itself is put to a vote.




(6)

Within 8 weeks after the first annual general meeting, the owner
developer must give the strata corporation a financial statement
updated to




(a)

the date the first annual budget takes effect, or




(b)

if no budget is approved at the first annual general meeting, the date
of the first annual general meeting.






Transfer to council




22


Within one week after the first annual general meeting, the owner
developer must




(a)

transfer control of the strata corporation's money to the newly
elected council, and




(b)

deliver to the newly elected council any keys, garage door openers or
other means of access that the owner developer possesses for the
purposes of exercising the powers and performing the duties of the
council.






Access to owner developer's financial records




23

(1)


For 2 years following the transfer of control referred to in section
22, the owner developer must keep all financial records that relate to
the strata corporation's finances during the period before the
transfer of control.




(2)

During the 2 years that the owner developer keeps the financial
records,




(a)

the owner developer must, at the request of the strata corporation,
make them available for inspection free of charge by the strata
corporation, and




(b)

the strata corporation may, at its expense, copy or audit them.






Strata management contracts




24

(1)


A contract entered into before the first annual general meeting by or
on behalf of the strata corporation for the provision of strata
management services to the strata corporation ends, regardless of any
provision of the contract to the contrary, on the earlier of




(a)

the date that is 4 weeks after the date of the second annual general
meeting,




(b)

the termination date contained in the contract or agreed to by the
parties, and




(c)

the cancellation date established in accordance with section 39.




(2)

The strata corporation may, by a resolution passed by a majority vote
at the second annual general meeting, continue a contract which would
otherwise end under subsection (1) (a).




(3)

A resolution under subsection (2) does not require notice under
section 45 (3).




Contents
|


Part 1
|


Part 2
|

Part 3 |

Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|


Part 10
|


Part 11
|


Part 12
|


Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|


Part 17
|



Schedule of Standard Bylaws





