"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act
Wines of Marked Quality Regulation
B.C. Reg. 79/2005
Food and Agricultural Products Classification Act
Item
Column 1
Description
Column 2
Fee
1
For an application for a practice standards certificate or a
renewal on January 1 of each year of a practice standards
certificate
An annual fee of $11.02 per tonne of grapes processed by the
applicant or certificate holder in the previous calendar year
for producing a BC wine of distinction
2
Time spent by a verification officer for a purpose referred to
in section 1
The amount paid by the authority to the verification officer
3
Expenses, other than mileage expenses, incurred by a
verification officer for a purpose referred to in section 1
The actual amount of expenses
4
Mileage expenses incurred by a verification officer for a
purpose referred to in section 1
Mileage allowance at the government travel rate as of the date
of travel
5
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 307/2016, s. 13 (b).]
6
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 307/2016, s. 13 (b).]
7
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 307/2016, s. 13 (b).]
8
To assess the competency of a chemical laboratory facility:
for time spent by an agent or employee of the authority
Actual cost incurred by the authority
9
For assessment of a chemical laboratory facility: all expenses
paid to an agent to conduct the assessment and all out of
pocket expenses of the agents or employees of the authority
Actual cost incurred by the authority
10
For an assessment of a chemical laboratory facility: mileage
expenses for necessary travel
Mileage allowance at the government travel rate at the time of
travel
11
For a wine quality certificate for a wine
$25 per production unit of wine assessed
12
For a taste test assessment of a production unit requested by
the holder of a practice standards certificate
$100 per production unit of wine assessed
13
For dispute settlement proceedings requested by a practice
standards certificate holder: estimated fee to be paid before
the proceeding commences with subsequent adjustment for final
expenses
Costs, including legal and staff costs, to the authority of
facilitating a dispute settlement proceeding whether or not
the dispute is settled
