"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Health Act
Slaughter House Regulation
B.C. Reg. 350/83
Health Act
Column 1
Name of Meat Inspection Area
Column 2
Area in Meat Inspection Area
Boundary Meat Inspection Area
The areas comprised in the boundaries of Barnston Island,
the Corporation of Delta, the City of Surrey, and the
City of White Rock.
City of Chilliwack Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of
Chilliwack.
City of Langley Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Langley.
Coquitlam Meat Inspection Area
The areas comprised in the boundaries of the City of
Coquitlam,
the City of Port Coquitlam and the City of Port Moody.
City of New Westminster Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of New
Westminster.
City of North Vancouver Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of North
Vancouver.
City of Vernon Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Vernon.
District of North Vancouver Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of North
Vancouver.
District of West Vancouver Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of West
Vancouver.
City of Richmond Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of Richmond.
Dewdney-Alouette Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the former
Dewdney-Alouette
Regional District incorporated by Letters Patent issued on
October 27, 1967
and amalgamated into the Fraser Valley Regional District by
Letters Patent
issued on December 12, 1995.
District of Kent Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of Kent.
District of Mission Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of
Mission.
Greater Victoria Meat Inspection Area
The areas comprised in the boundaries of School District No.
61 (Greater Victoria),
School District No. 62 (Sooke) and School District No. 63
(Saanich).
District of Squamish Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the District of
Squamish.
Resort Municipality of Whistler Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the Resort
Municipality of Whistler.
Sunshine Coast Regional District Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the Sunshine Coast
Regional District.
South Peace Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of School District No. 59
(Peace River South).
Abbotsford Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the City of
Abbotsford.
Township of Langley Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the Township of
Langley.
Village of Pemberton Meat Inspection Area
The area comprised in the boundaries of the Village of
Pemberton.
