





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement




CHAPTER 16

GOVERNANCE




TSAWWASSEN FIRST NATION SELF-GOVERNMENT



1. Tsawwassen First Nation has the right to self-government, and the
authority to make laws, as set out in this Agreement.


2. Tsawwassen Government, as provided for under the Tsawwassen
Constitution and this Agreement, is the government of Tsawwassen First
Nation.


3. The rights, powers, privileges and authorities of Tsawwassen First
Nation will be exercised in accordance with Tsawwassen Laws, including
the Tsawwassen Constitution, and with this Agreement.


4. For greater certainty, the authority of Tsawwassen Government to make
laws in respect of a subject matter as set out in this Agreement
includes the authority to make laws and do other things as may be
necessarily incidental to exercising that authority.


5. Tsawwassen First Nation will act through Tsawwassen Government in
exercising its rights, powers, privileges and authorities, and in
carrying out its duties, functions and obligations.


6. Subject to requirements to make laws under this Agreement, Tsawwassen
First Nation may exercise the law-making authorities set out in this
Agreement over time.




LEGAL STATUS AND CAPACITY



7. Tsawwassen First Nation is a legal entity with the capacity, rights,
powers, and privileges of a natural person including the ability to:

a. enter into contracts and agreements;

b. acquire and hold property or an interest in property, and sell or
otherwise Dispose of that property or interest;

c. raise, spend, invest and borrow money;
d. sue and be sued; and

e. do other things ancillary to the exercise of its rights, powers and
privileges.




TSAWWASSEN CONSTITUTION



8. Tsawwassen First Nation will have a Constitution, consistent with
this Agreement, which will provide:


a. for a democratic Tsawwassen Government, including its duties,
composition and membership;


b. that Tsawwassen Government will be democratically accountable with
elections at least every five years;


c. that a majority of members of Tsawwassen Government will be elected;


d. that Tsawwassen Government may include elements of traditional
governance;


e. for the role of advisory bodies in Tsawwassen Government;


f. that this Agreement sets out the authority of the Tsawwassen
Government to make laws;


g. for a system of financial administration with standards comparable to
those generally accepted for governments in Canada, through which
Tsawwassen Government will be financially accountable to Tsawwassen
Members;


h. for conflict of interest rules comparable to those generally accepted
for governments of similar size in Canada;


i. for recognition and protection of rights and freedoms of Tsawwassen
Members;


j. that every individual who is enrolled under this Agreement is
entitled to be a Tsawwassen Member;


k. for a process for the enactment of laws by Tsawwassen Government;


l. for a process for challenging the validity of laws enacted by
Tsawwassen Government;


m. that any law enacted by Tsawwassen Government that is inconsistent
with the Tsawwassen Constitution is, to the extent of the inconsistency,
of no force or effect;


n. for the establishment of Tsawwassen Public Institutions;


o. for conditions under which Tsawwassen First Nation may Dispose of
land or interests in land;


p. for a process for the removal from office of members of Tsawwassen
Government;


q. for a process for the amendment of the Tsawwassen Constitution; and

r. for other provisions.

9. The Tsawwassen Constitution, once ratified in accordance with this
Agreement, comes into force on the Effective Date.




GOVERNANCE TRANSITION



10. The individuals who were the Chief Councillor and Councillors of the
Tsawwassen First Nation band council under the
Indian Act
on the day immediately before the Effective Date are the chief and
legislative members, respectively, of Tsawwassen Government from the
Effective Date until the office holders elected in the first election
for Tsawwassen Government take office.




TSAWWASSEN ELECTIONS



11. The first election for Tsawwassen Government will be held no later
than six months after the Effective Date.


12. Elections for members of Tsawwassen Government will be held in
accordance with the Tsawwassen Constitution and other Tsawwassen Laws.




APPEAL AND REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS



13. Tsawwassen First Nation will establish procedures for appeal or
review of administrative decisions made by Tsawwassen First Nation or a
Tsawwassen Public Institution and, if those procedures provide for a
right of appeal to a court for a decision made under a Tsawwassen Law,
the Supreme Court of British Columbia has jurisdiction to hear those
appeals.


14. An application may be made to the Supreme Court of British Columbia
for judicial review of an administrative decision made by Tsawwassen
First Nation or a Tsawwassen Public Institution under a Tsawwassen Law,
and the Supreme Court of British Columbia has jurisdiction to hear any
such application, but no such application may be brought until all
procedures for appeal or review provided by Tsawwassen First Nation
under clause 13, and applicable to that decision, have been exhausted.


15. The
Judicial Review Procedure Act
applies to an application for judicial review under clause 14, and
Provincial Settlement Legislation will provide that the
Judicial Review Procedure Act
is amended to include Tsawwassen Law in the definition of enactment.




REGISTRY OF LAWS


16. Tsawwassen Government will:

a. maintain a public registry of Tsawwassen Laws in the English language
which version is authoritative and, at the discretion of Tsawwassen
First Nation, in the Hun'qum'i'num language;


b. provide Canada and British Columbia with copies of Tsawwassen Laws as
soon as practicable after they are enacted, unless otherwise agreed by
the Parties; and


c. establish procedures for determining the coming into force and
providing for the publication of Tsawwassen Laws.




PARTICIPATION OF NON-MEMBERS



17. Tsawwassen First Nation will provide that Tsawwassen Institutions
will Consult with Non-Members in respect of decisions of Tsawwassen
Institutions that directly and significantly affect those Non-Members.


18. Tsawwassen First Nation will provide that Non-Members may
participate in the decision-making processes of a Tsawwassen Public
Institution if the activities of that Tsawwassen Public Institution
directly and significantly affect Non-Members.


19. The means of participation under clause 18 will include:


a. if members of a Tsawwassen Public Institution are elected, an
opportunity for Non-Members to vote for and stand for election as a
member of the Tsawwassen Public Institution with the ability to
participate in discussions and to vote on matters that directly and
significantly affect Non-Members;


b. if members of a Tsawwassen Public Institution are not elected, at
least one member of the Tsawwassen Public Institution will be a
Non-Member selected by Non-Members with the ability to participate in
discussions and to vote on matters that directly and significantly
affect Non-Members; or

c. other comparable measures.

20. Despite clause 19, Tsawwassen First Nation may provide that a
majority of the members of the Tsawwassen Public Institution must be
Tsawwassen Members.


21. Tsawwassen First Nation will establish the means of participation
under clause 18 by law at the same time that it establishes a Tsawwassen
Public Institution whose activities may directly and significantly
affect Non-Members.


22. Tsawwassen First Nation will provide Non-Members with access to the
appeal and review procedures established under clause 13 in respect of
activities that directly and significantly affect Non-Members.




NOTIFICATION OF TSAWWASSEN LAW-MAKING



23. Before Tsawwassen Government brings into force any Tsawwassen Law in
respect of:

a. adoption;
b. Child Protection Services;
c. health services;
d. social services;
e. Child Care services; or
f. kindergarten to grade 12 education,

Tsawwassen Government will give at least six months written notice of
the proposed Tsawwassen Law to Canada and British Columbia.


24. Despite clause 23, after giving the notice referred to in clause 23,
Tsawwassen Government may bring into force the Tsawwassen Law within the
six month period if Canada and British Columbia agree.


25. The Parties may negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in respect
of any of the matters set out in clause 26 or 27, but an agreement under
those clauses is not a condition precedent to the exercise of law-making
authority by Tsawwassen Government, and such authority may be exercised
immediately following the six month notice period referred to in clause
23.


26. If Canada or British Columbia makes a request in writing within
three months of being given notice under clause 23, Tsawwassen First
Nation will Consult with Canada or British Columbia, as the case may be,
in respect of:


a. options the Parties could take to address the interests of Tsawwassen
First Nation through methods other than law-making;


b. immunity of individuals providing services or exercising authority
under Tsawwassen Law;

c. readiness and quality assurance; and
d. other matters as the Parties may agree.

27. At the written request of any Party within three months of notice
being provided under clause 23, the relevant Parties will discuss:


a. any transfer of cases and related documentation from federal or
provincial institutions to Tsawwassen Institutions, including any
confidentiality and privacy considerations;


b. any transfer of assets from federal or provincial institutions to
Tsawwassen Institutions;


c. any appropriate amendments to Federal or Provincial Laws; and

d. other matters as the Parties may agree.

28. If, in the notice referred to in clause 23, Tsawwassen First Nation
advises that it is proposing a Tsawwassen Law for reasons of emergency,
Canada and British Columbia will respond as soon as practicable.




NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES TO PROVINCIAL LEGISLATION



29. Subject to clause 35 or an agreement under clause 32, before British
Columbia introduces legislation in the Legislative Assembly of British
Columbia, or before the Lieutenant Governor in Council approves a
regulation, British Columbia will notify, in writing, Tsawwassen First
Nation if:


a. this Agreement provides for Tsawwassen Government law-making
authority in respect of the subject matter of the legislation or
regulation;


b. the legislation or regulation may affect the protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, or rights referred
to in clauses 163 and 164; or


c. the legislation or regulation may affect the rights, powers, duties,
obligations, or the protections, immunities, limitations in respect of
liability, remedies over, or rights referred to in clause 113;


except where this cannot be done for reasons of emergency or
confidentiality.


30. If British Columbia does not notify Tsawwassen First Nation under
clause 29 for reasons of emergency or confidentiality, British Columbia
will notify, in writing, Tsawwassen First Nation, as soon as
practicable, that it has introduced legislation in the Legislative
Assembly of British Columbia, or deposited a regulation with the
Registrar of Regulations.


31. Notifications under clauses 29 and 30 will include:


a. the nature and purpose of the proposed legislation or regulation; and


b. the date that the proposed legislation or regulation is anticipated
to take effect, if it has not already done so.


32. Tsawwassen First Nation and British Columbia may negotiate and
attempt to reach agreements establishing alternatives to the obligations
that would otherwise apply under clauses 29, 30, 31 and 33.


33. Subject to clauses 34 and 35, or an agreement under clause 32, if
Tsawwassen First Nation makes a written request to British Columbia,
then British Columbia and Tsawwassen First Nation will discuss the
effect, if any, of the legislation or regulation on:

a. a Tsawwassen Law; or

b. the matters referred to in subclauses 29.b and 29.c.


34. If British Columbia establishes a process providing for collective
discussions with First Nation Governments in British Columbia concerning
matters referred to in clause 33, Tsawwassen First Nation will
participate in that process and the process will satisfy the obligations
of British Columbia under clause 33.


35. If Tsawwassen First Nation is a member of a representative body and
British Columbia has entered into an agreement with the body that
provides for consultation in respect of matters referred to in clause
29, 30, 31, and 33, then consultations between British Columbia and that
representative body in respect of a particular matter will satisfy the
obligations on British Columbia to provide notice under clauses 29 and
30 and discussion under clause 33.


36. Unless British Columbia agrees otherwise, Tsawwassen First Nation
will retain the information provided under clauses 29 through 35 in
strict confidence until such time, if ever, the proposed legislation is
given first reading in the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia or
the regulation is deposited with the Registrar of Regulations, as
applicable.


37. The Parties acknowledge that nothing in clauses 29 through 35 is
intended to interfere with the legislative process of British Columbia.


38. Despite any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that
provincial legislation or a regulation referred to in clause 29 affects
the validity of a Tsawwassen Law, the Tsawwassen Law will be valid for a
period of six months or until it is amended, whichever is the shorter
period, after the coming into force of the provincial legislation or
regulation.




DELEGATION



39. Any law-making authority of Tsawwassen Government under this
Agreement may be delegated by a Tsawwassen Law to:

a. a Tsawwassen Public Institution;

b. another First Nation Government in British Columbia;


c. a public institution established by one or more First Nation
Governments in British Columbia;

d. British Columbia;
e. Canada;
f. a Local Government; or
g. a legal entity as agreed by the Parties,

if the delegation and the exercise of any law-making authority is in
accordance with this Agreement and the Tsawwassen Constitution.


40. Any authority of Tsawwassen First Nation under this Agreement other
than a law-making authority may be delegated by a Tsawwassen Law to:

a. any body set out in clause 39; or
b. a legal entity in Canada

if the delegation and the exercise of any delegated authority is in
accordance with this Agreement and the Tsawwassen Constitution.


41. Any delegation under subclauses 39.b through 39.g or clause 40
requires the written consent of the delegate.


42. Tsawwassen First Nation may receive a delegated authority by
agreement, including a law-making authority.




TSAWWASSEN FIRST NATION LAW-MAKING AUTHORITIES





Tsawwassen Government



43. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the election,
administration, management and operation of Tsawwassen Government
including:


a. the establishment of Tsawwassen Public Institutions, including their
respective powers, duties, composition and membership, but the
registration or incorporation of the Tsawwassen Public Institution must
be under Federal or Provincial Law;


b. the powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration and
indemnification of members, officials, employees and appointees of
Tsawwassen Institutions;


c. the establishment of a Tsawwassen Corporation, but the registration
or incorporation of the Tsawwassen Corporation must be under Federal or
Provincial Law;


d. the financial administration of Tsawwassen First Nation and
Tsawwassen Institutions; and

e. elections, by-elections and referenda.

44. In accordance with clause 22 of the General Provisions chapter,
nothing in clause 43 confers authority on Tsawwassen Government to make
laws in respect of labour relations and working conditions.

45. Tsawwassen Government will make laws to:

a. provide Tsawwassen Members with reasonable access to information in
the custody or control of a Tsawwassen Institution; and


b. provide Persons other than Tsawwassen Members with reasonable access
to information in the custody or control of a Tsawwassen Institution
regarding matters that directly and significantly affect those Persons.


46. For greater certainty, a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 45 need
not provide access to information of a kind that is generally
unavailable under Federal or Provincial Law.


47. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 43 or 45 prevails to the extent
of a Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law, except that a Federal or
Provincial Law in respect of the protection of personal information
prevails to the extent of a Conflict with a Tsawwassen Law made under
clause 43 or 45.




Tsawwassen Membership



48. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of membership in
Tsawwassen First Nation.


49. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 48 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


50. The conferring of membership in Tsawwassen First Nation does not:


a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, or
the right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
; or


b. except as set out in this Agreement or in Federal or Provincial Law,
impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide rights or
benefits.




Tsawwassen Assets



51. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the use,
possession, management and Disposition of:

a. assets located on Tsawwassen Lands;
b. assets located off Tsawwassen Lands; and
c. Other Tsawwassen Lands as an asset,

of Tsawwassen First Nation, a Tsawwassen Corporation or a Tsawwassen
Public Institution.


52. For greater certainty, the law-making authority in clause 51 does
not include the authority to make laws in respect of creditors' rights
and remedies.


53. A Tsawwassen Law made under subclause 51.a prevails to the extent of
a Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


54. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under subclause 51.b or 51.c.




Adoption



55. In determining a Child's best interests, all relevant factors will
be considered including those factors that must be considered under the
Adoption Act
.


56. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:


a. adoption of Tsawwassen Children in British Columbia;


b. adoption in British Columbia by Tsawwassen Members of Children who
reside on Tsawwassen Lands; and


c. adoption in British Columbia of Children of Tsawwassen Members in
accordance with clause 60.

57. Tsawwassen Laws under clause 56 will:

a. expressly provide that the best interests of the Child are the
paramount consideration in determining whether an adoption will take
place; and


b. provide for the consent of individuals whose consent to a Child's
adoption is required under Provincial Law, subject to the power of the
court to dispense with such consent under Provincial Law.


58. If Tsawwassen Government makes laws under clause 56, Tsawwassen
First Nation will:


a. develop operational and practice standards that promote the best
interests of the Child;


b. participate in British Columbia's information management systems, or
establish an information management system that is compatible with
British Columbia's information management systems, concerning the
management, storage and disposal of adoption records and the
safeguarding of personal adoption information; and


c. provide British Columbia and Canada with a record of all adoptions
occurring under Tsawwassen Law.


59. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 56 applies to the adoption of a
Tsawwassen Child residing off Tsawwassen Lands if:


a. the Tsawwassen Child has not been placed for adoption under the
Adoption Act
, and all of the following consent to the application of Tsawwassen Law
to the adoption:

i. the parents of the Tsawwassen Child;

ii. if the Tsawwassen Child has reached the age where consent to
adoption is required under the
Adoption Act
, the Tsawwassen Child; and


iii. if the Tsawwassen Child is not under the guardianship of a
Director, the guardian of the Tsawwassen Child;


b. a Director designated under the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
is guardian of the Tsawwassen Child, and the Director consents in
accordance with subclauses 62.c and 62.d; or


c. a court dispenses with the requirement for the consent referred to in
subclause 59.a, in accordance with the criteria that would be used by
that court in an application to dispense with the requirement for a
parent's or guardian's consent to an adoption under Provincial Law.


60. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 56 applies to the adoption of a
Child of a Tsawwassen Member or a Child residing on Tsawwassen Lands who
is not a Tsawwassen Child if:


a. before the Child is placed for adoption under Tsawwassen Law, all of
the following consent to the application of Tsawwassen Law to the
adoption:

i. the parents of the Child;

ii. if the Child has reached the age where consent to adoption is
required under the
Adoption Act
, the Child; and


iii. if the Child is not under the guardianship of a Director, the
guardian of the Child;


b. a Director designated under the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
is guardian of the Child and the Director consents to the application of
Tsawwassen Law to the adoption of that Child provided that it is in the
best interests of the Child; or


c. a court dispenses with the requirement for the consent referred to in
subclause 60.a, in accordance with the criteria that would be used by
that court in an application to dispense with the requirement for a
parent's or guardian's consent to an adoption under Provincial Law.


61. The Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on the
information that will be included in the record provided under subclause
58.c.


62. If a Director designated under the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
, or a successor to that position, becomes the guardian of a Tsawwassen
Child, the Director will:


a. provide notice to Tsawwassen First Nation that the Director is the
guardian of the Tsawwassen Child;


b. provide notice to Tsawwassen First Nation when the Director applies
for a continuing custody order for the Tsawwassen Child, provide
Tsawwassen First Nation with a copy of the continuing custody order once
the order is made and make reasonable efforts to involve Tsawwassen
First Nation in planning for the Tsawwassen Child;


c. if requested by Tsawwassen First Nation, consent to the application
of Tsawwassen Law to the adoption of the Tsawwassen Child provided that
it is in the best interests of the Tsawwassen Child; and


d. in determining the best interests of the Tsawwassen Child under
subclause 62.c., the Director will consider the importance of preserving
the Tsawwassen Child's cultural identity.


63. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 56 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


64. Before placing a Tsawwassen Child for adoption, an adoption agency
must make reasonable efforts to:


a. obtain information about the Tsawwassen Child's cultural identity;
and


b. discuss with the designated representative of Tsawwassen First
Nation, the placement of the Tsawwassen Child.


65. Subclause 64.b does not apply if the Tsawwassen Child has reached
the age where consent to adoption is required under the
Adoption Act
and the Tsawwassen Child objects to the discussion taking place, or if
the birth parent or other guardian of the Tsawwassen Child who requested
that the Tsawwassen Child be placed for adoption objects to the
discussion taking place.


66. Nothing in this Agreement prevents Tsawwassen First Nation from
sharing information with any Person in respect of an adoption occurring
under Tsawwassen Law, with the written permission of the adoptive
parents, birth parents and the adoptee if over the age of majority under
Provincial Law.




Child Custody



67. Tsawwassen First Nation has standing in any judicial proceedings in
British Columbia in which custody of a Tsawwassen Child is in dispute
and the court will take judicial notice of Tsawwassen Law and will
consider any evidence and representations in respect of Tsawwassen Law
and Tsawwassen First Nation customs in addition to any other matters it
is required by law to consider.


68. The participation of Tsawwassen First Nation in proceedings referred
to in clause 67 will be in accordance with the applicable rules of court
and will not affect the ability of the court to control its process.




Child Protection Services



69. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of Child Protection
Services on Tsawwassen Lands with respect to:

a. Tsawwassen Children; and

b. Children who are not Tsawwassen Children, subject to an agreement
under clause 75 between Tsawwassen First Nation and British Columbia.

70. Tsawwassen Laws under clause 69 will:

a. expressly provide that the Tsawwassen Law will be interpreted and
administered such that the Safety and Well-Being of Children are the
paramount considerations; and


b. not preclude the reporting under Provincial Law of a Child in Need of
Protection.


71. If Tsawwassen Government makes laws under clause 69, Tsawwassen
First Nation will:


a. develop operational and practice standards intended to ensure the
Safety and Well-Being of Children;


b. participate in British Columbia's information management systems, or
establish an information management system that is compatible with
British Columbia's information management systems, concerning Children
in Need of Protection and Children in Care;


c. allow for mutual sharing of information with British Columbia
concerning Children in Need of Protection and Children in Care; and


d. establish and maintain a system for the management, storage and
disposal of Child Protection Service records and the safeguarding of
personal Child Protection Services information.


72. Tsawwassen First Nation and British Columbia acknowledge that the
information shared under subclause 71.c is personal information, as
defined in federal and provincial privacy and access to information
legislation, and agree to protect that personal information from
subsequent disclosures to the extent possible under law.


73. Despite a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 69, if there is an
emergency in which a Child on Tsawwassen Lands is a Child in Need of
Protection, British Columbia may act to protect the Child and, in those
circumstances, unless British Columbia and Tsawwassen First Nation agree
otherwise in writing, British Columbia, as appropriate, will refer the
matter to Tsawwassen First Nation after the emergency.


74. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 69 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


75. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, Tsawwassen First Nation
and British Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in
respect of Child Protection Services for:


a. Tsawwassen Children who do not reside on Tsawwassen Lands; or


b. Children who reside on Tsawwassen Lands who are not Tsawwassen
Children.


76. Where the Director becomes the guardian of a Tsawwassen Child, the
Director will make reasonable efforts to include Tsawwassen First Nation
in planning for the Tsawwassen Child, including adoption planning.




Education



77. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of education in the
culture of Tsawwassen First Nation and the Hun'qum'i'num language
provided by a Tsawwassen Institution or a person appointed by Tsawwassen
First Nation on Tsawwassen Lands including:


a. the certification and accreditation of teachers of the culture of
Tsawwassen First Nation and the Hun'qum'i'num language; and


b. the development of the curriculum for teaching the culture of
Tsawwassen First Nation and the Hun'qum'i'num language.


78. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of kindergarten to
grade 12 education provided by a Tsawwassen Institution on Tsawwassen
Lands.

79. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 78 will:

a. establish curriculum, examination, and other standards that permit
students to transfer between school systems at a similar level of
achievement and permit students to enter the provincial post-secondary
education systems; and


b. provide for the certification and accreditation of teachers, by a
Tsawwassen Public Institution, or by a body recognized by British
Columbia, in accordance with standards comparable to standards
applicable to individuals who teach in public or provincially-funded
independent schools in British Columbia.


80. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of kindergarten to
grade 12 home education of Tsawwassen Members on Tsawwassen Lands.


81. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 77, 78 or 80 prevails to the
extent of a Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.


82. If Tsawwassen Government makes a Law under clause 78, at the request
of Tsawwassen First Nation or British Columbia, those Parties will
negotiate and attempt to reach agreement concerning the provision of
kindergarten to grade 12 education to:


a. individuals, other than Tsawwassen Members, residing on Tsawwassen
Lands; and


b. Tsawwassen Members residing off Tsawwassen Lands.




Post-Secondary Education and Training



83. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of post-secondary
education provided by a Tsawwassen Institution on Tsawwassen Lands
including:


a. the establishment of post-secondary education institutions with the
ability to grant degrees, diplomas or certificates;


b. the determination of the curriculum for post-secondary education
institutions established by Tsawwassen Government; and


c. the provision for and coordination of adult education programs
including but not limited to employment training services.


84. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 83.




Aboriginal Healers



85. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the authorization
of individuals to practise as aboriginal healers on Tsawwassen Lands.


86. Tsawwassen Government authority to make laws under clause 85 does
not include the authority to regulate:


a. medical or health practices that, or practitioners who, require
licensing or certification under Federal or Provincial Law; or


b. products or substances that are regulated under Federal or Provincial
Law.


87. Tsawwassen Laws made under clause 85 will establish standards:


a. in respect of competence, ethics and quality of practice that are
reasonably required to protect the public; and


b. that are reasonably required to safeguard personal client
information.


88. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 85 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.




Health Services



89. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of health services,
including public health, provided by a Tsawwassen Institution on
Tsawwassen Lands.


90. Tsawwassen Laws made under clause 89 will take into account the
protection, improvement and promotion of public and individual health
and safety.


91. At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt
to reach agreement for the delivery and administration by a Tsawwassen
Institution of federal and provincial health services and programs for
individuals residing on Tsawwassen Lands.


92. Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict with
a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 89.


93. Despite clause 92, a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 89 in respect
of the organization and structure of Tsawwassen Institutions used to
deliver health services on Tsawwassen Lands prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.




Social Services



94. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of social services
provided by a Tsawwassen Institution, including income assistance,
services related to family and community life, and housing.


95. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 94.


96. Tsawwassen Government authority under clause 94 does not include the
authority to make laws in respect of the licensing and regulation of
facility-based services provided off Tsawwassen Lands.


97. At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt
to reach agreement in respect of:


a. exchanging information for the purpose of avoiding double payments
and related matters; and


b. administration and delivery by a Tsawwassen Institution of federal
and provincial social services and programs for individuals residing on
Tsawwassen Lands.


98. Tsawwassen Laws under clause 94 may require individuals collecting
income assistance from a Tsawwassen Institution to participate in work
programs or other similar programs.




Family Development Services



99. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of Family Development
Services provided by a Tsawwassen Institution on Tsawwassen Lands.


100. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 99.




Liquor Control



101. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the prohibition
of, and the terms and conditions for, the sale, exchange, possession,
manufacture or consumption of liquor, on Tsawwassen Lands.


102. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 101.


103. Tsawwassen First Nation, its agents and assignees have:


a. the exclusive right to sell liquor on Tsawwassen Lands in accordance
with Federal and Provincial Law; and


b. the right to purchase liquor from the British Columbia Liquor
Distribution Branch, or its successors, in accordance with Federal and
Provincial Law.


104. British Columbia will approve an application made, in accordance
with Provincial Law, by Tsawwassen First Nation, its agents or assignees
for a licence, permit, or other authority to sell liquor on Tsawwassen
Lands.


105. Despite subclause 103.a, if Tsawwassen First Nation consents,
British Columbia may issue to a person other than Tsawwassen First
Nation, its agents or assignees a licence, permit, or other authority to
sell liquor on Tsawwassen Land.


106. British Columbia will, in accordance with Provincial Law, authorize
persons designated by Tsawwassen First Nation to approve or deny
applications for special occasion licences or temporary permits to sell
liquor on Tsawwassen Lands.




Solemnization of Marriages



107. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of solemnization of
marriages within British Columbia by individuals designated by
Tsawwassen First Nation to solemnize marriages.


108. Individuals designated by Tsawwassen First Nation to solemnize
marriages:


a. will be appointed by British Columbia as individuals authorized to
solemnize marriages; and


b. have the authority to solemnize marriages under Provincial Law and
Tsawwassen Law, and have all the associated rights, duties and
responsibilities of a marriage commissioner under the provincial
Marriage Act
.


109. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 107.




Judicial Proceedings in Respect of Matrimonial Property



110. Tsawwassen First Nation has standing in any judicial proceedings in
which the treatment of interests in Tsawwassen Lands upon the breakdown
of a marriage involving at least one Tsawwassen Member is in dispute,
and the court will consider any evidence and representations in respect
of Tsawwassen Law which may restrict the alienation of Tsawwassen Lands
to Tsawwassen Members in addition to any other matters it is required by
law to consider.


111. The participation of Tsawwassen First Nation in proceedings
referred to in clause 110 will be in accordance with the applicable
rules of court and will not affect the ability of the court to control
its process.




Child Care



112. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of Child Care
services on Tsawwassen Lands.


113. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 112.




Emergency Preparedness


114. Tsawwassen First Nation has:

a. the rights, powers, duties and obligations; and


b. the protections, immunities and limitations in respect of liability,


of a local authority under Federal and Provincial Law in respect of
emergency preparedness and emergency measures on Tsawwassen Lands.


115. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the rights,
powers, duties, and obligations of Tsawwassen First Nation under clause
114.


116. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 115.


117. For greater certainty, Tsawwassen First Nation may declare a state
of local emergency, and exercise the powers of a local authority in
respect of local emergencies in accordance with Federal and Provincial
Law in respect of emergency measures, but any declaration and any
exercise of those powers is subject to the authority of Canada and
British Columbia set out in that Federal and Provincial Law.


118. Nothing in this Agreement affects the authority of:

a. Canada to declare a national emergency; or

b. British Columbia to declare a provincial emergency,

in accordance with Federal or Provincial Law.



Regulation of Business



119. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
licensing, and prohibition of businesses on Tsawwassen Lands, which laws
may impose licence fees or other fees.


120. For greater certainty, the authority to make laws under clause 119
includes the authority to prohibit:


a. a public show, exhibition, carnival, or performance of any kind or in
any particular location;


b. the operation of places of amusement to which the public has access;
and


c. professional boxing, professional wrestling and other professional
athletic contests.


121. For greater certainty, the authority to make laws under clause 119
does not include the authority to make laws in respect of the
accreditation, certification, or professional conduct of professions and
trades except as provided in clauses 77, 78 and 80.


122. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 119.




Buildings and Structures



123. The British Columbia Building Code applies to Tsawwassen Lands.


124. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of buildings and
structures on Tsawwassen Lands, but Tsawwassen Laws must not establish
standards for buildings or structures to which the British Columbia
Building Code applies that are additional to or different from the
standards established by the British Columbia Building Code.


125. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, British Columbia will
negotiate and attempt to reach an agreement to enable Tsawwassen
Government to establish standards for buildings or structures that are
additional to or different from the standards established by the British
Columbia Building Code.


126. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 124.




Public Works



127. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of public works and
related services on Tsawwassen Lands.


128. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 127.




Traffic, Parking, Transportation and Highways



129. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of traffic, parking,
transportation and highways on Tsawwassen Lands to the same extent as
Local Governments have authority to make laws in respect of traffic,
parking, transportation and highways in municipalities in British
Columbia.


130. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 129.




Public Order, Peace and Safety



131. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
control or prohibition of any actions, activities or undertakings on
Tsawwassen Lands that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance, a
trespass, a danger to public health, or a threat to public order, peace
or safety including:

a. in respect of animals;

b. requirements regarding the discharge of firearms, the use of bows and
arrows, knives and other weapons, firecrackers, fireworks, explosives;
and


c. public games, sports, races and athletic contests.


132. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 131.




Penalties



133. Subject to clauses 134, 135 and 136, and clause 6 of the Taxation
chapter, a Tsawwassen Law may provide for the imposition of penalties,
including fines, restitution and imprisonment, for the violation of
Tsawwassen Law.


134. Subject to clause 135, and clause 6 of the Taxation chapter, a
Tsawwassen Law may provide for a fine of up to ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or the general limit for summary conviction offences under
section 787 of the
Criminal Code
, whichever is greater.


135. A Tsawwassen Law in respect of the protection of the Environment
may provide for a fine that is not greater than that imposed for
comparable offences punishable upon summary conviction under the
Canadian Environmental Protection Act
.


136. Subject to clause 6 of the Taxation chapter, a Tsawwassen Law may
provide for a term of imprisonment for a violation of a Tsawwassen Law
that is not greater than the general limit for summary conviction
offences under section 787 of the
Criminal Code
.




Adoption of Federal or Provincial Laws



137. Tsawwassen Government may adopt Federal or Provincial Law in
respect of matters within Tsawwassen Government law-making authority set
out in this Agreement.




Enforcement of Tsawwassen Laws



138. Tsawwassen First Nation is responsible for any enforcement of
Tsawwassen Law.


139. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, to the extent of their
respective jurisdictions, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreement in respect of the enforcement of Tsawwassen Law by
federal or provincial enforcement officials or police forces.


140. Tsawwassen Government may make laws for the enforcement of
Tsawwassen Law including the appointment of officials to enforce
Tsawwassen Law. Powers of enforcement for those officials will not
exceed those provided by Federal or Provincial Law for enforcing similar
laws in British Columbia.


141. Tsawwassen Government law-making authority does not include:

a. the authority to establish a police force;

b. authorizing the carriage or use of firearms by enforcement officials;
or

c. the authority to establish a court.

142. Nothing in this Agreement prevents Tsawwassen First Nation from
establishing a police force under Provincial Law.


143. After receiving a written request from Tsawwassen First Nation, the
Parties will discuss and explore options for the establishment of a
court, other than a provincial court with inherent jurisdiction or a
federal court, to adjudicate offences and other matters arising under
Tsawwassen Laws or laws of other First Nation Governments in British
Columbia.


144. If Tsawwassen First Nation appoints officials to enforce Tsawwassen
Law, Tsawwassen First Nation will:


a. ensure that any Tsawwassen First Nation enforcement officials are
appropriately trained to carry out their duties having regard to
training requirements for other enforcement officers carrying out
similar duties in British Columbia; and


b. establish procedures for responding to complaints against Tsawwassen
First Nation enforcement officials.


145. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 140.


146. Tsawwassen First Nation may, by a proceeding brought in the Supreme
Court of British Columbia, enforce, or prevent or restrain the
contravention of, Tsawwassen Law.




Adjudication of Tsawwassen Laws



147. The Provincial Court of British Columbia has jurisdiction to hear
prosecutions of offences under Tsawwassen Law.


148. The summary conviction proceedings of the
Offence Act
apply to prosecutions of offences under Tsawwassen Law.


149. Tsawwassen First Nation is responsible for all aspects of any
prosecution under Tsawwassen Law, including appeals, and may carry out
this responsibility by:


a. appointing or retaining individuals to conduct prosecutions and
appeals, in a manner consistent with the principle of prosecutorial
independence and consistent with the overall authority and role of the
Attorney General in the administration of justice in British Columbia;
or


b. entering into agreements with Canada or British Columbia in respect
of the conduct of prosecutions and appeals.


150. Unless the Parties agree otherwise, British Columbia will pay any
fines collected, in respect of a penalty imposed on a person by the
Provincial Court of British Columbia or the Supreme Court of British
Columbia, as the case may be, for an offence under a Tsawwassen Law, to
Tsawwassen First Nation on a similar basis as British Columbia makes
payments to Canada for fines that may be collected by British Columbia
in respect of an offence under a Federal Law.


151. The Provincial Court of British Columbia or the Supreme Court of
British Columbia, as the case may be, has jurisdiction to hear legal
disputes arising between individuals under Tsawwassen Law.




Community Correctional Services



152. A Tsawwassen Institution may provide Community Correctional
Services for individuals charged with, or found guilty of, an offence
under Tsawwassen Law.


153. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, Tsawwassen First Nation
and British Columbia may negotiate and attempt to reach agreement to
provide Community Correctional Services on Tsawwassen Lands for
individuals charged with, or found guilty of, an offence under Federal
or Provincial Law.


154. Tsawwassen First Nation and British Columbia may negotiate and
attempt to reach agreement for Tsawwassen First Nation to provide
rehabilitative community based programs and interventions off Tsawwassen
Lands for Tsawwassen Members charged with, or found guilty of, an
offence under a Federal or Provincial Law.


155. Tsawwassen First Nation and Canada may negotiate and attempt to
reach agreement for persons appointed by a Tsawwassen Institution to
provide Community Correctional Services to adult Tsawwassen Members
released from a federal penitentiary or who are subject to a long-term
supervision order, including parole, temporary absence supervision, or
other similar service delivered by Canada.


156. This Agreement does not authorize Tsawwassen First Nation to
establish or maintain places of confinement, except for police jails or
lock-ups operated by a police service established under Provincial Law.




TSAWWASSEN FIRST NATION LIABILITY





Members of Tsawwassen Government



157. No action for damages lies or may be instituted against an elected
or appointed member or former member of Tsawwassen Government for:


a. anything said or done or omitted to be said or done by or on behalf
of Tsawwassen First Nation or Tsawwassen Government by someone other
than that elected or appointed member or former member while he or she
is or was a member;


b. any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of a duty or the exercise of a power, of Tsawwassen First
Nation or Tsawwassen Government while that person is, or was, a member;


c. anything said or done or omitted to be said or done by that person in
the performance, or intended performance, of the person's duty or the
exercise of the person's power; or


d. any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of that person's duty or exercise of that person's power.


158. Subclauses 157.c and 157.d do not provide a defence if:


a. the person has, in relation to the conduct that is the subject matter
of the action, been guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or malicious
or wilful misconduct; or

b. the cause of action is libel or slander.

159. Subclauses 157.c and 157.d do not absolve Tsawwassen First Nation
from vicarious liability arising out of a tort committed by a member or
former member of Tsawwassen Government for which Tsawwassen First Nation
would have been liable had that clause not been in effect.




Tsawwassen Public Officers



160. No action for damages lies or may be instituted against a
Tsawwassen Public Officer or former Tsawwassen Public Officer for:


a. anything said or done or omitted to be said or done in the
performance, or intended performance, of the officer's duty or the
exercise of the officer's power; or


b. any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of that officer's duty or exercise of that officer's power.

161. Clause 160 does not provide a defence if:

a. the Tsawwassen Public Officer has, in relation to the conduct that is
the subject matter of the action, been guilty of dishonesty, gross
negligence or malicious or wilful misconduct; or

b. the cause of action is libel or slander.

162. Clause 160 does not absolve any of the corporations or bodies
referred to in the definition of Tsawwassen Public Officer from
vicarious liability arising out of a tort committed by a Tsawwassen
Public Officer for which the corporation or body would have been liable
had that clause not been in effect.


163. Despite clause 160, a Tsawwassen Public Officer does not have
protections, immunities or limitations in respect of liability, in
respect of the provision of a service, if no persons delivering
reasonably similar programs or services under Federal or Provincial Law
have protections, immunities, limitations in respect of liability and
rights under Federal or Provincial Law, except as may be otherwise
provided under Federal or Provincial Law.




Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen Government



164. Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen Government have the
protections, immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies
over, and rights provided to a municipality and its municipal council
under Part 7 of the
Local Government Act
.


165. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Tsawwassen First
Nation has the protections, immunities, limitations in respect of
liability, remedies over, and rights provided to a municipality under
the
Occupiers Liability Act
, and, for greater certainty, has those protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and rights, in
respect of a road on Tsawwassen Lands used by the public, or by
industrial or resource users, if Tsawwassen First Nation is the occupier
of that road.




Realization of Security Against Property of Tsawwassen First Nation



166. Without limiting clause 164, but subject to clauses 7 and 8 of the
Lands chapter, no real or personal property of Tsawwassen First Nation
or a Tsawwassen Public Institution is subject to seizure or sale under a
Writ of Execution, order for sale or other process without leave of the
Supreme Court of British Columbia, and the court, in granting or
refusing leave under this clause, may:


a. permit the issuance of the writ, make the order or allow the other
process at a time and on conditions the court considers proper; or


b. refuse to permit the writ to be issued or suspend action under it, or
deny the order or other process, on terms and conditions the court
considers proper or expedient.


167. In determining how to proceed under clause 166, the court must have
regard to:


a. any reputed insolvency of Tsawwassen First Nation;


b. any security afforded to the judgment creditor by the registration of
the judgment;


c. the effect on delivery of programs or services by Tsawwassen First
Nation that are not provided by municipalities in British Columbia, and
the funding of those programs or services;


d. any immunities from seizure of property of Tsawwassen First Nation
under this Agreement; and


e. whether the judgment creditor has exhausted all other remedies,
including the seizure of personal property and remedies against Other
Tsawwassen Lands.



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|

Schedule - Chapter 16 |


Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|



Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





