





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement




CHAPTER 21

ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLMENT




GENERAL


1. Enrolment under this Agreement does not:

a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, or
the right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
, or


b. except as set out in this Agreement or in any Federal or Provincial
Law, impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide
rights or benefits.




TSAWWASSEN ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA



2. An individual is eligible to be enrolled under this Agreement if that
individual:


a. was a member or was entitled to be a member of the Tsawwassen First
Nation band under the
Indian Act
as of the day before the Effective Date;

b. is of Tsawwassen First Nation ancestry;

c. was adopted under a law recognized in Canada, or under Tsawwassen
First Nation customs, by an individual eligible to be enrolled; or


d. is a descendant of an individual eligible to be enrolled under
subclause 2.a, 2.b or 2.c.


3. Despite subclause 2.d, where an individual having no aboriginal
ancestry became a member of the Tsawwassen First Nation band under the
Indian Act
before April 17, 1985, because of marriage to a member of the Tsawwassen
First Nation band under the
Indian Act
, and that individual subsequently has a child with another individual
who is not eligible under clause 2, that child is not eligible to be
enrolled.




APPLICATIONS FOR ENROLMENT UNDER THE ENROLMENT COMMITTEE



4. An applicant, on their own behalf, on behalf of a child under the age
of 18, or on behalf of an adult whose affairs they have the legal
authority to manage, may:


a. apply to the enrolment committee to be enrolled;


b. appeal a decision of the enrolment committee to the enrolment appeal
board; or


c. seek judicial review of a decision of the enrolment appeal board.


5. Each applicant has the burden of demonstrating to the enrolment
committee that the applicant meets the eligibility criteria set out in
clause 2.


6. If an applicant requests that the name of an individual in relation
to whom they submitted an application for enrolment be removed from the
enrolment register, the enrolment committee will remove that name and
will notify the applicant of the removal.




OTHER LAND CLAIMS AGREEMENTS



7. An applicant may not at the same time be enrolled under this
Agreement if the applicant is:


a. a member of an aboriginal group that is a signatory to a treaty;


b. enrolled under another land claims agreement in Canada; or


c. on an
Indian Act
band list, other than that of the Tsawwassen First Nation band under the
Indian Act
.


8. An applicant, upon application, must notify the enrolment committee
if the applicant, or an individual on behalf of whom the applicant is
applying, falls within a category set out in clause 7.




ENROLMENT COMMITTEE



9. The enrolment committee will be established by Tsawwassen First
Nation at a time agreed upon by the Parties, and will consist of three
representatives appointed by Tsawwassen First Nation.


10. Tsawwassen First Nation will notify Canada and British Columbia of
the representatives on the enrolment committee, as soon as practicable
upon their appointment.

11. The enrolment committee will:

a. establish its procedures and set its time limits;


b. publish its procedures and time limits, including the eligibility
criteria and a list of the documentation and information required of
each applicant, in time for individuals to review before making their
applications for enrolment;


c. provide an application form to any individual who wishes to apply for
enrolment;

d. receive applications for enrolment;

e. consider and make a decision on each application, based on the
eligibility criteria set out in clause 2;


f. before the date of the ratification vote, enrol applicants who meet
the eligibility criteria and who meet the time limits set out in
subclause 11.a;

g. maintain a record of those decisions;

h. provide written notification to each applicant and to the Parties of
its decision in respect of each application and, if enrolment is
refused, include written reasons for that decision;


i. establish and maintain an enrolment register containing the name of
each individual who is enrolled;


j. add names to, delete names from, or amend names on, the enrolment
register in accordance with this chapter and the decisions of the
enrolment appeal board;


k. provide information in respect of an enrolment application, in
confidence, on request of the Parties or of the enrolment appeal board,
and the Parties acknowledge that such information is personal
information as defined in federal and provincial privacy and access to
information legislation, and agree to protect that personal information
from subsequent disclosures to the extent possible under the law;


l. report to the Parties on the enrolment process as requested;


m. keep information about applications confidential; and


n. on request provide to the Parties without cost a true copy of the
enrolment register.


12. After a decision by the enrolment committee and before any appeal of
that decision is commenced, an applicant may submit new information to
the enrolment committee.


13. The enrolment committee may, before an appeal of a decision is
commenced, vary the decision on the basis of new information if it
considers the decision was in error.


14. If the enrolment committee does not make a decision in respect of an
application within the time established in its procedures, the
application will be deemed to be refused and the refusal will constitute
grounds for appeal to the enrolment appeal board.


15. Subject to this chapter, all decisions of the enrolment committee
are final and binding.


16. In addition to the functions set out in clauses 11 through 15, the
enrolment committee will provide the ratification committee with the
name of each individual who is enrolled, and any other relevant
information requested by the ratification committee in accordance with
the Ratification chapter.




ENROLMENT APPEAL BOARD



17. Tsawwassen First Nation and Canada will each appoint one member to
the enrolment appeal board and will jointly appoint a third member, and
the members will select, from among themselves, a chairperson.


18. Tsawwassen First Nation and Canada will establish the enrolment
appeal board at a date agreed upon by the Parties.


19. A member of the enrolment committee may not also be a member of the
enrolment appeal board.

20. The enrolment appeal board will:

a. establish its procedures and set its time limits;

b. publish its procedures and time limits;

c. hear and determine any appeal brought under subclause 4.b or clause
14, including:


i. determining whether the appellant, or the individual on behalf of
whom the appellant appealed, will be enrolled;


ii. re-hearing any matters arising from clauses 31 or 32; and

iii. maintaining a record of those decisions;

d. conduct hearings in public, unless it determines in a particular case
that there are reasons for confidentiality that outweigh the public
interest in having an open hearing;


e. provide written reasons for each decision to each appellant and to
the Parties;


f. maintain a record of decisions and provide those decisions to the
enrolment committee as required; and


g. provide a report to the Parties on the appeal process, as requested.


21. An applicant under clause 4, or a Party, may appeal by written
notice to the enrolment appeal board:


a. any decision of the enrolment committee made under subclause 11.e or
clause 13; and


b. any application that is deemed to be refused under clause 14.


22. On or after the Effective Date, the enrolment appeal board may:


a. require, by summons, any individual to appear before the enrolment
appeal board as a witness and to produce any relevant document in their
possession;


b. direct a witness to answer, on oath or solemn affirmation, any
relevant question posed to the witness; and


c. re-hear an appeal that was completed before the Effective Date.


23. A judge of the Provincial Court of British Columbia, on application
by the enrolment appeal board, may enforce a summons or direction under
clause 22.


24. An appellant or Party, or a witness appearing before the enrolment
appeal board, may be represented by counsel or an agent.


25. Subject to clauses 30 through 33, all decisions of the enrolment
appeal board are final and binding.


26. No action lies against the enrolment appeal board, or any member of
the enrolment appeal board, for anything done or omitted to be done in
good faith in the performance or intended performance of a duty under
this chapter.




FUNDING



27. Canada and British Columbia will provide to Tsawwassen First Nation
an agreed amount of funding for the enrolment committee and the
enrolment appeal board to carry out the functions referred to in clauses
9 through 22.




TRANSITION TO TSAWWASSEN GOVERNMENT



28. The enrolment committee and the enrolment appeal board will be
dissolved when they have rendered final decisions in respect of those
applications or appeals commenced before the Effective Date.


29. After the Effective Date, Tsawwassen First Nation will:


a. be responsible for an enrolment process and the administrative costs
of that process;

b. maintain an enrolment register;

c. provide a copy of the enrolment register to Canada and British
Columbia each year or as requested, without cost; and


d. provide information concerning enrolment to Canada and British
Columbia as requested, without cost.




JUDICIAL REVIEW



30. An applicant or a Party may apply to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia to review a decision of the enrolment appeal board on the
grounds that the enrolment appeal board:


a. acted without jurisdiction, acted beyond its jurisdiction or refused
to exercise its jurisdiction;

b. failed to observe procedural fairness;
c. erred in law; or

d. based its decision on an erroneous finding of fact that it made in a
perverse or capricious manner or without regard for the material before
it.


31. On an application for judicial review under clause 30, the court may
dismiss the application, set aside the decision, or refer the matter
back to the enrolment appeal board for determination in accordance with
any directions that the court considers appropriate.


32. If the enrolment appeal board fails to hear or decide an appeal
within a reasonable time, an applicant or Party may apply to the Supreme
Court of British Columbia for an order directing the enrolment appeal
board to hear or decide the appeal, in accordance with any directions
that the court considers appropriate.


33. An applicant or Party may apply for judicial review within 60 days
of receiving notification of the decision of the enrolment appeal board
or a longer time as determined by the court.



Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|

Schedule - Chapter 21 |


Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|



Appendix P

|



Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





