
"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Assessment Act


Application by Owner and Occupier of Eligible Residential Property

B.C. Reg. 240/96

Assessment Act





Assessment Relief — Section 19 (8) of the
Assessment Act






What Assessment Relief is Provided Under Section 19 (8) of
the
Assessment Act
?



This section of the
Assessment Act
allows residential property to be assessed at a lower value if
the owner qualifies and the property has potential for
development.


Section 19 (8) deals with a residential property's existing
use versus its potential use. Over time, property tends to be
redeveloped into different uses, particularly residential
property that is close to urban areas.


Examples of residential property with the potential for
development are:


• a house located on land that has been rezoned for commercial
use (e.g., allowing for a store or office building), or

• a house located on a five-acre parcel which could be
developed into one-quarter acre lots.


Both examples could qualify for assessment relief.


Who Qualifies for Assessment Relief?


Residential property owners who have been living on property
which is less than 2.03 hectares (approximately 5 acres) for
more than 10 years, may be eligible for a lower property
assessment.


To qualify for assessment relief:


• the property must be the property owner's principal
residence.

• the owner must have owned and occupied the property
continuously for at least 10 years. In other words, to qualify
for assessment relief
next year
an owner must have owned and occupied their property for at
least 10 years ending October 31 of
this year
.


• the property's market value for another use must be higher
than the property's existing residential value.

• a completed application form must be submitted each year.

• additional qualifying criteria may be required.


Who Benefits from Assessment Relief?


Property owners living in communities or neighbourhoods where
land use is changing would benefit from assessment relief. If
eligible, the property owner's property will be valued at its
current "existing" use instead of its higher "potential" use.



Do All Long Term Property Owners Qualify for Assessment
Relief?



No. To qualify, the property's
demonstrated
market value must be higher than its current residential
value. For example, a home in a large residential subdivision,
surrounded by other residential dwellings, might not qualify
for relief under this section of the
Assessment Act
simply because the current use reflects the most valuable use
of the property.



How Do Property Owners Apply for Assessment Relief?



Owners must apply to their local assessment office each year.


Owners are advised to file their applications for assessment
relief at their local BC Assessment office by January 31 of
each year. This will ensure consideration for the current
Assessment Roll.


Note: A new application form must be completed each year.





How Do I Get More Information on Assessment Relief?



Application forms and additional information on assessment
relief may be obtained by calling your local BC Assessment
office which is listed in the White pages of your telephone
book.




BC Assessment




