





View Complete Statute



Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.


Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2




CHAPTER 12


ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE



POLICE SERVICES


General


1.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to provide policing within Nisg̱a'a
Lands, it may do so by:


a. making laws for a Nisg̱a'a Police Board and a Nisg̱a'a Police Service
under paragraph 3;


b. entering into agreements under which some or all of the policing will
be provided by the provincial police service or other police services;
or

c. both (a) and (b).

2.
The Parties' objectives are that a Nisg̱a'a Police Service:


a. be responsive to the needs and priorities of the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. has the full range of police responsibilities and the authority to
enforce Nisg̱a'a laws, the laws of British Columbia, the criminal law,
and other federal laws within Nisg̱a'a lands; and


c. contributes to the administration of justice, the maintenance of
social order, and public security.



Establishment of Nisg̱a'a Police Board and Nisg̱a'a Police Service



3.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to establish a Nisg̱a'a Police
Service, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to provide for the
establishment, organization, composition, indemnification, and roles and
responsibilities of a Nisg̱a'a Police Board and a Nisg̱a'a Police Service.


4.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 3 will include provisions:


a. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of:


i. minimum standards for certification of members of the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service,


ii. the swearing in of the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service and the
Nisg̱a'a Police Board,


iii. use of force by members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


iv. discipline and dismissal procedures for members of the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, and

v. a public complaint procedure; and

b. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of:


i. selection standards for the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


ii. a code of conduct for members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,


iii. appropriate mechanisms to ensure police independence,
accountability, and competence, and

iv. police operations.

Nisg̱a'a Police Board


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board will:


a. be independent and accountable in accordance with the standards that
apply generally to police boards in British Columbia;


b. provide general direction and training to the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


c. determine priorities and goals of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


d. act as the employer of the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


e. appoint members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service, including a chief
constable who, under the direction of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board, will
have general supervision and command over the Nisg̱a'a Police Service,
and will have the powers and authorities necessary to direct the members
of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service;


f. make rules respecting standards for the administration of the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, the prevention of neglect and abuse by its members, and
the efficient discharge of their duties and functions;


g. enforce the code of conduct established for the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service and take any necessary disciplinary action; and


h. enter into agreements from time to time for training, specialized
training, mutual support, assistance, and exchange of information and
expertise.


6.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board may exercise its functions when the Lieutenant
Governor in Council has:


a. approved the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications; and

b. appointed the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's members.

7.
An amendment to the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications will take effect when approved by the Lieutenant Governor
in Council.


8.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has made laws in accordance with paragraphs
3 and 4, the Lieutenant Governor in Council will:


a. approve the Nisg̱a'a Police Board's structure and membership
qualifications;


b. approve any amendment to the structure or membership qualifications;
and


c. appoint the members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board.


9.
If, after Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes a law under paragraph 3, the
effect of a change in a provincial law is that the Nisg̱a'a law ceases to
be:


a. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of
the matters set out in subparagraph 4 (a); or


b. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of the matters set
out in subparagraph 4 (b)


the Nisg̱a'a law will be deemed to incorporate the provincial law to the
extent necessary for substantial conformity or compatibility, as the
case may be, until the Nisg̱a'a law is amended by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government.


10.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council will appoint to the Nisg̱a'a Police
Board only individuals who have been recommended by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, and will not revoke the appointment of any Nisg̱a'a Police
Board member, other than for cause, without the concurrence of Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government.


11.
When the Lieutenant Governor in Council has approved the structure and
membership qualifications of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board and appointed its
members, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government:


a. will provide policing sufficient to maintain law and order within
Nisg̱a'a Lands;


b. will ensure that there are adequate physical resources for the proper
operation of police services within Nisg̱a'a lands; and


c. is jointly and severally liable for torts committed by members of the
Nisg̱a'a Police Service or by other employees of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board
in the performance of their duties.


12.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Board and its members are not liable for torts
committed by members of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service, or by other
employees of the Nisg̱a'a Police Board, in the performance of their
duties.


Nisg̱a'a Police Service


13.
A member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service:


a. has the powers, duties, privileges, liabilities and responsibilities
of a peace officer according to law;


b. has the immunity from personal liability provided to police officers
under provincial law; and


c. has authority throughout British Columbia while carrying out the
powers, duties, privileges, and responsibilities that a police constable
or peace officer is entitled or required to exercise or carry out
according to law.


14.
If a member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service performs duties outside of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, the member will, if possible, notify in advance the
municipal police service or the provincial police service of the area in
which the member performs duties, but in any case will promptly notify
the municipal police service or provincial police service after
performing those duties.


15.
If a provincial or other police constable performs duties within Nisg̱a'a
Lands, the constable will, if possible, notify the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service in advance, but in any case will notify the Nisg̱a'a Police
Service promptly after performing those duties.


16.
The Nisg̱a'a Police Service and other police forces in British Columbia
will respond to requests from one another for temporary assistance in
accordance with federal and provincial law.


17.
British Columbia will be jointly and severally liable with respect to
torts committed by a member of the Nisg̱a'a Police Service in the
performance of the member's duties outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


18.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Parties will, to the extent of
their respective jurisdictions, negotiate and attempt to reach
agreements or protocols as may be necessary to enable Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government to carry out its policing responsibilities, including
agreements concerning:


a. the role and responsibility of the provincial police service in the
provision of police services within Nisg̱a'a Lands;


b. mutual assistance and operational cooperation between the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service and other police services;

c. other matters required by this Chapter; and

d. any other matters relating to police services.


19.
If the Minister is of the opinion that:


a. effective policing in accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere
in British Columbia is not being delivered within Nisg̱a'a Lands; or


b. it is necessary or desirable to ensure effective delivery of policing
in accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere in British Columbia


the Minister, on terms approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
may provide or reorganize policing within Nisg̱a'a Lands by appointing
individuals as constables, using the provincial police force to provide
policing, or by other means.


20.
The Minister will not exercise authority under paragraph 19 if that
exercise discriminates against the Nisg̱a'a Police Service or is aimed at
aboriginal police forces generally throughout British Columbia.


21.
If practicable, before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the
Minister will provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government with:


a. written notice of the reasons or circumstances that form the basis of
the Minister's decision to provide or reorganize policing;


b. reasonable opportunity to show cause why no action should be taken;
and


c. reasonable opportunity to correct or modify any Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government acts or omissions that form the basis for the Minister's
decision to provide or reorganize policing.


22.
If it is not practicable for the Minister to comply with paragraph 21
before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the Minister, after
exercising that authority, will forthwith provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government with the notice and opportunities described in paragraph 21.



COMMUNITY CORRECTION SERVICES


23.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may appoint one or more persons to provide
community correction services in respect of persons charged with, or
convicted of, offences under Nisg̱a'a laws.


24.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements to enable the
persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community correction
services within Nisg̱a'a Lands under provincial legislation.


25.
An agreement under paragraph 24 will contain provisions:


a. ensuring that community correction services are delivered in
accordance with generally accepted standards;


b. confirming the authority of the official charged with the
responsibility for investigations, inspections, and standards under
provincial legislation; and


c. for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to provide community correction
services consistent with the needs and priorities of the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


26.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia may enter into agreements to
enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community
correction services outside Nisg̱a'a Lands under provincial legislation.


27.
Persons performing duties under agreements referred to in paragraphs 24
to 26 will comply with all provincial standards respecting professional,
personal, and other qualifications, except as modified by those
agreements.


28.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada may enter into agreements:


a. to enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide
community correction services under federal legislation; and


b. for the provision of services or programs for adult and young
offenders, including their care and custody.


29.
This Agreement does not authorize Nisg̱a'a Government to establish places
of confinement, other than jails or lockups operated by the Nisg̱a'a
Police Service, or as provided for under an agreement referred to in
paragraph 28.



NISG̱A'A COURT


General


30.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws to provide for the constitution,
maintenance, and organization of a Nisg̱a'a Court for the better
administration of Nisg̱a'a laws.


31.
Until Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government establishes a Nisg̱a'a Court that has
been approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, prosecutions under
Nisg̱a'a laws will be heard in the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


32.
Any fines collected in respect of a penalty imposed on a person by the
Provincial Court of British Columbia for a violation of a Nisg̱a'a law
will be paid to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government on a similar basis as British
Columbia makes payments to Canada for fines that may be collected by
British Columbia for a violation of a federal law.


Establishment of Nisg̱a'a Court


33.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government decides to establish a Nisg̱a'a Court,
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws to:


a. ensure that the Nisg̱a'a Court and its judges comply with generally
recognized principles in respect of judicial fairness, independence, and
impartiality;


b. provide for means of supervision of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court by
the Judicial Council of British Columbia or other similar means; and


c. provide procedures for appeals from decisions of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


34.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may exercise its functions when the Lieutenant
Governor in Council has approved the Nisg̱a'a Court's structure,
procedures, and method of selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


35.
An amendment to the Nisg̱a'a Court's structure, procedures, or method of
selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court will take effect when approved
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.


36.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council will approve the Nisg̱a'a Court's
structure, procedures, and the method of selection of the judges of the
Nisg̱a'a Court or any amendment to the structure, procedures, or method
of selection of judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court, if Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government has made laws in accordance with paragraph 33.


37.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will appoint the judges of the Nisg̱a'a Court.


Nisg̱a'a Court


38.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may exercise the powers and perform all the duties
conferred or imposed on it by or under Nisg̱a'a laws, in respect of:


a. the review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions;


b. the adjudication of prosecutions under Nisg̱a'a laws; and


c. the adjudication of disputes arising under Nisg̱a'a laws between
Nisg̱a'a citizens on Nisg̱a'a Lands that would be within the jurisdiction
of the Provincial Court of British Columbia if the disputes arose under
provincial law.


39.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may adjudicate in respect of a dispute not referred to
in paragraph 38 if the parties to that dispute, before commencing the
proceeding in the Nisg̱a'a Court, agree:


a. to accept the Nisg̱a'a Court's authority to decide the dispute and to
grant the remedies as between the parties sought in the proceeding; and


b. that any order of the Nisg̱a'a Court will be final and binding, except
for an appeal under paragraph 48.


40.
In addition to the matters set out in paragraphs 38 and 39, the Nisg̱a'a
Court may exercise jurisdiction that may be assigned to the Nisg̱a'a
Court by federal or provincial law.


41.
The Nisg̱a'a Court:


a. may impose penalties and other remedies under the laws of Nisg̱a'a
Government, British Columbia, or Canada in accordance with generally
accepted principles of sentencing;


b. in disputes under subparagraph 38 (c), may make any order that could
be made by the Provincial Court of British Columbia if the disputes
arose under provincial law;


c. in disputes under paragraph 39, may grant the remedies sought by the
parties;


d. may apply traditional Nisg̱a'a methods and values, such as using
Nisg̱a'a elders to assist in adjudicating and sentencing, and emphasizing
restitution; and


e. may issue process, such as summons, subpoenas, and warrants.


42.
Any process issued by the Nisg̱a'a Court has the same force and effect as
process issued by the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


43.
In proceedings in which an accused person may receive a sentence of
imprisonment under Nisg̱a'a law, the accused person may elect to be tried
in the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


44.
The Nisg̱a'a Court may not impose on a person who is not a Nisg̱a'a
citizen a sanction or penalty different in nature from those generally
imposed by provincial or superior courts in Canada, without the person's
consent.


Appeals


45.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of
prosecutions under Nisg̱a'a laws may be taken to the Supreme Court of
British Columbia on the same basis as summary conviction appeals under
the
Criminal Code of Canada
.


46.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a
review of an administrative decision under subparagraph 38 (a) may be
taken to the Supreme Court of British Columbia on an error of law or
jurisdiction.


47.
An appeal from a decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a matter
under subparagraph 38 (c) may be taken to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia on the same basis as a similar decision could be appealed from
the Provincial Court of British Columbia.


48.
An appeal from a final decision of the Nisg̱a'a Court in respect of a
matter under paragraph 39 may be taken to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia on an error of law or jurisdiction.


Enforcement


49.
An order of the Nisg̱a'a Court may be registered in the Supreme Court of
British Columbia and, once registered, will be enforceable as an order
of the Supreme Court of British Columbia.


Other


50.
The Lieutenant Governor in Council, upon recommendation of Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government and with the concurrence of the persons or bodies
required under provincial law, may appoint a judge of the Nisg̱a'a Court
as a provincial court judge, justice of the peace, or referee.


51.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is responsible for the prosecution of all
matters arising from Nisg̱a'a laws, including appeals, and may carry out
this responsibility by:


a. appointing or retaining individuals to conduct prosecutions and
appeals, in a manner consistent with the principle of prosecutorial
independence and consistent with the overall authority and role of the
Attorney General in the administration of justice in British Columbia;


b. entering into agreements with Canada or British Columbia in respect
of the conduct of prosecutions and appeals; or

c. both (a) and (b).


REVIEW


52.
The Parties will review this Chapter no later than 10 years after the
effective date, and may amend this Chapter if all Parties agree.



Contents
|



Sections 1-70

|



Schedule - Table of Contents

|


Preamble
|


Chapter 1
|


Chapter 2
|


Chapter 3
|


Chapter 4
|


Chapter 5
|


Chapter 6
|


Chapter 7
|


Chapter 8
|


Chapter 9
|



Chapter 10

|



Chapter 11

|

Chapter 12 |


Chapter 13

|



Chapter 14

|



Chapter 15

|



Chapter 16

|



Chapter 17

|



Chapter 18

|



Chapter 19

|



Chapter 20

|



Chapter 21

|



Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands

|



Appendix - Contents

|



Appendix - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M





