





View Complete Statute



Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.


Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2




CHAPTER 7


ROADS AND RIGHTS OF WAY



RIGHTS OF WAY GENERAL


British Columbia Rights of Way Area on Effective Date


1.
On the effective date, the total rights of way area of the British
Columbia rights of way is deemed to equal 800 hectares, and this total
is the basis of calculations under paragraph 2.


Additional Public Rights of Way


2.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, on
request by British Columbia, will grant to British Columbia, or to a
public utility, rights of way on Nisg̱a'a Lands for public purposes,
including provincial secondary roads or public utilities, in order to
provide access or service to Nisg̱a'a Lands or other lands, subject to
the following:


a. any grant must be on reasonable terms including the location of the
requested right of way, its width considering the intended use, its
effect on neighbouring lands, and payment of fair compensation;


b. British Columbia is not entitled to a grant under this paragraph if,
on the date of the request, the total of the rights of way areas of all
British Columbia rights of way plus the area of the requested grant
would exceed the aggregate right of way maximum;


c. if any British Columbia right of way, or a portion of a British
Columbia right of way, terminates, the right of way area of the
terminated right of way will be excluded from the calculation of the
total of the rights of way areas of all the British Columbia rights of
way for the purposes of calculating British Columbia's entitlement in
respect of the aggregate right of way maximum; and


d. if any dispute arises between British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village in respect of the rights or obligations of either
British Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village under this
paragraph, including a dispute in respect of British Columbia's
entitlement to the grant of a right of way for itself or for a public
utility, or a dispute in respect of the terms of the grant, then any
party to that dispute may refer the dispute to be finally determined by
arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute Resolution Chapter without
having to proceed through Stage Two. The arbitrator's decision will be
final on all matters in dispute, but the arbitrator will not have the
authority to require British Columbia or a public utility to accept a
grant of a right of way.



Preservation of Right to Grant Rights of Way and Approve Survey Plans



3.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, will preserve their
respective rights to grant rights of way to British Columbia or a public
utility on all Nisg̱a'a Lands, and to approve all survey plans as set out
in paragraph 5.


Ownership of Works and Plant


4.
Subject to any express provision, in respect of ownership, in a grant of
a right of way, all works, including road surfacing, bridges, drainage
works, public utility poles, wiring and related plant, underground
piping, conduits and related plant, that are located on that right of
way area:


a. are the property of the grantee of that grant from the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village, for the duration of the grant; and


b. become the property of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village upon the
termination of the grant.


Approval of Survey Plans


5.
For each grant of a right of way given on the effective date, the
detailed location and dimensions of the right of way area will be deemed
to be described conclusively in survey plans approved by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation and the grantee, as follows:


a. a survey plan attached to a grant given on the effective date will be
deemed to be approved by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and the grantee; and


b. for any portion of a right of way area that is not described in any
survey plan attached to the grant given on the effective date, either
the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the grantee may deliver to the other, at any time,
a survey plan for approval in writing. If approval is not given within
30 days, then the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the grantee may refer the matter in
dispute to dispute resolution for final determination, as set out in the
grant.


Application of Nisg̱a'a Law


6.
Nisg̱a'a laws apply to secondary provincial road rights of way areas,
public utility rights of way areas, and works under licence to British
Columbia or a public utility from the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, to the extent that the Nisg̱a'a laws do not:


a. impair the ability to use and occupy a right of way area for the
purposes for which the right of way was granted;


b. specify a more stringent standard of design or operation for road or
utility works that are on a right of way area, or under licence, than is
set out in federal or provincial laws of general application in British
Columbia; or


c. impair the ability to use any works under licence for the purposes
for which the licence was granted.


7.
Any right of way, other interest, or licence, granted under this Chapter
on the effective date, will be in the applicable form set out in
Appendix C-3 or C-4 and will include any modification agreed upon in
writing before the effective date by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and the
person entitled to the right of way, other interest, or licence.



NISG̱A'A HIGHWAY


Ownership of the Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor


8.
As of the effective date, British Columbia owns the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor to use as a public highway, and the Parties will execute
documents and take reasonable steps to the extent necessary to provide
British Columbia administration, control, and ownership of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway corridor.


Description of Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor


9.
As of the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor consists of the
lands set out in Schedule A. The detailed location and dimensions of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor are deemed to be described conclusively in
survey plans approved by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia, as
follows:


a. on or after the effective date, either the Nisg̱a'a Nation or British
Columbia may deliver to the other a survey plan of all or any portion of
the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor for approval by the other in writing; and


b. if approval is not given within 30 days, then either the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or British Columbia may refer the matter to be finally determined
by arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


Nisg̱a'a Highway Corridor Dimensions


10.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 9,
the width of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor is 30 metres, except that the
width is greater than 30 metres where required to include those:


a. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and


b. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides,
measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut


that are part of the Nisg̱a'a Highway existing on the effective date.


Closure of Nisg̱a'a Highway


11.
If British Columbia discontinues and closes any portion of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway corridor:


a. it will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation the estate in fee simple, as
described in paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, for that portion of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor;


b. that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor will cease to be a part
of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor; and


c. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor Nisg̱a'a Lands, in accordance with the process referred to in
paragraph 9 of the Lands Chapter.


Relocation of Nisg̱a'a Highway


12.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires a portion of the
Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor for another purpose, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that
Nisg̱a'a Village may request British Columbia to relocate that portion of
the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and, if:


a. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a highway of a
comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation,
and costs; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village pays all reasonable costs,
including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction


British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the
relocation.


13.
If a portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor is relocated:


a. British Columbia will transfer to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a
Village, as the case may be, the estate in fee simple, as described in
paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, to that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor that is abandoned;


b. that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor will cease to be a part
of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor;


c. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may make that portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor Nisg̱a'a Lands, in accordance with the process referred to in
paragraph 9 of the Lands Chapter; and


d. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will
transfer to British Columbia the estate in fee simple, as described in
paragraph 3 of the Lands Chapter, to the area of land in the relocated
portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and that area of land will no
longer be Nisg̱a'a Lands.


14.
A relocation under paragraph 12 does not affect the calculation of the
total area of all British Columbia rights of way.


Highway Alignment


15.
British Columbia will exercise its expropriation powers in respect of
fee simple lands, on the alignment of the Nisg̱a'a Highway, that are not
Nisg̱a'a Lands in the same manner as it exercises those powers in respect
of comparable highways elsewhere in British Columbia.


Nisg̱a'a Highway Extension to Highway 37


16.
British Columbia will consider the extension of the Nisg̱a'a Highway from
Nass Camp to connect with Highway 37, in accordance with provincial
priorities and having regard to British Columbia's long term goal of
completing that extension.



SECONDARY PROVINCIAL ROADS


Secondary Provincial Roads Rights of Way Grants


17.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant to British
Columbia, in accordance with this Agreement, the rights of way for
secondary provincial roads as set out in Appendix C-1, Part 3.


Form of Grant


18.
Grants for secondary provincial road rights of way on the effective date
will be substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 1 and will
include by reference all of the provisions of this Agreement that apply
to secondary provincial road rights of way, which provisions will be
subject to any express provisions in the grant.


19.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, grants
for secondary provincial road rights of way granted after the effective
date will be in the form and on the terms referred to in paragraph 18.


Rights and Privileges


20.
A grant of a right of way for a secondary provincial road right of way
area will provide British Columbia with the full, free and uninterrupted
right, liberty and right of way, in perpetuity, for the purposes of
using, constructing, re-constructing, repairing, improving, upgrading,
and maintaining, as provided in this Agreement:


a. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open
to the public;


b. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open
to industrial or resource users and, as safety permits, to the public;
or

c. works for public utility purposes.

21.
The grant in paragraph 20 will provide British Columbia, its employees,
representatives, agents, contractors, and permittees the right to enter
onto the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for the purposes
referred to in paragraph 20.



Secondary Provincial Road Rights of Way Area Dimensions



22.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 5,
the width of a secondary provincial road right of way area is 20 metres,
except that the width is greater than 20 metres where required to
include those:


a. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and


b. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides,
measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut


that are part of the secondary provincial road existing on the effective
date.


Nisg̱a'a Assignment of Secondary Provincial Road


23.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may not, without the written consent of British
Columbia, assign or transfer any of its interest in any Nisg̱a'a Lands
that are subject to a secondary provincial road right of way except to a
Nisg̱a'a Village.


24.
Upon an assignment or transfer to a Nisg̱a'a Village:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation will, subject to a re-transfer or re-assignment of
the interest to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, be deemed to be released of its
obligations under the secondary provincial road right of way; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Village will not assign or transfer the interest to any
third party without the written consent of British Columbia.



British Columbia Assignment of Secondary Provincial Road



25.
British Columbia may not without the written consent of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation assign or transfer any of its interest in any secondary
provincial road right of way area except for an assignment to:


a. a British Columbia Crown corporation or other British Columbia
entity; or


b. to a lender as security for a borrowing by British Columbia


and no assignment or transfer will act as a release of any of British
Columbia's obligations as set out in this Agreement, or delegate, alter,
or affect any of the regulatory powers of British Columbia.


Indemnity For Secondary Provincial Roads


26.
British Columbia will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
each Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, from any:


a. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other
professional advisors;

b. damages;
c. losses; or
d. liabilities

that the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, respectively, may suffer
or incur in connection with, or as a result of, any claims, demands,
actions, or proceedings arising out of or relating to a secondary
provincial road right of way area, except to the extent that those
costs, damages, losses, and liabilities were caused by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village.


Abandonment of Secondary Provincial Roads


27.
British Columbia may abandon any secondary provincial road by giving
written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


28.
Subject to:


a. the express provisions in the grant of a right of way of a secondary
provincial road referred to in paragraph 27; and


b. agreement by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village to assume
responsibility for that secondary provincial road


British Columbia will be responsible to decommission that road, remove
any structures from it, or take the steps required under federal and
provincial laws of general application that apply to comparable roads
adjacent to private lands.


29.
If, under paragraph 28, there are no applicable federal or provincial
laws of general application, British Columbia will take the steps
reasonably required to protect adjacent Nisg̱a'a Lands and the public
from damage or injury that might result from the continued existence of
the secondary provincial road.


30.
The grant of a right of way will be terminated on the date set out in
the termination notice given under paragraph 27, except that British
Columbia's liability obligations, and obligations under paragraphs 28
and 29 existing at the date of termination, will survive the
termination.



Rights of Way for Secondary Provincial Road Extensions



31.
On request of British Columbia and subject to the aggregate right of way
maximum, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village will give a grant
substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 1 granting:


a. rights of way for secondary provincial roads for the three roads
connecting the North Hoodoo Road with the easterly boundary of Nisg̱a'a
Lands as shown generally in Appendix C-1, Part 3; and


b. rights of way to extend or add to the provincial secondary roads in
accordance with paragraph 2.



CROWN ROADS


Public Utilities on Crown Road Rights of Way Areas


32.
British Columbia will permit public utilities to use the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor and the secondary provincial road rights of way areas to
install, operate, and maintain utility transmission and distribution
works to the extent that, in the reasonable judgement of British
Columbia, those works will not interfere with the safe and prudent use
of the existing road or existing public utility works.


Other Uses within Crown Road Rights of Way Areas


33.
British Columbia will authorize the use of the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor
and the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for uses other
than road and public utility uses as follows:


a. British Columbia will issue a permit for a use if:


i. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village has issued a permit for that
use, and


ii. in the reasonable judgment of British Columbia, the use will be safe
and will not interfere with the existing road or existing public utility
works; and

b. British Columbia may:

i. attach to a permit issued under subparagraph (a) conditions in
respect of safety or interference,


ii. terminate a permit issued under subparagraph (a) without
compensation if the use is unsafe or interferes with the existing or
proposed road or existing or proposed public utility works, or


iii. charge fees for a permit issued under subparagraph (a), which do
not exceed British Columbia's actual reasonable costs of issuing the
permit.



Entry on Nisg̱a'a Lands Outside Crown Road Rights of Way



34.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Access Chapter, and
subject to the provisions of a grant of a secondary provincial road
right of way, British Columbia, its employees, agents, contractors, or
representatives may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands outside the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor, or outside a provincial secondary road right of way area, for
the purpose of undertaking works, including:

a. constructing drainage works;
b. maintaining slope stability; or
c. removing danger trees or other hazards

as required for the protection, care, maintenance, or construction of
road or public utility works.


35.
Before commencing any work referred to in paragraph 34, British Columbia
will deliver a written work plan describing the effect and extent of the
proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, as the case may be, for approval.


36.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will not
unreasonably withhold approval of the work plan delivered by British
Columbia, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the
cost of the proposed work compared to the cost of alternate solutions,
the extent of the risk of not undertaking the proposed work, and the
impact of the proposed work on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


37.
If British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the
case may be, do not agree on a work plan requested by British Columbia
within 30 days of receipt by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village
of the proposed work plan, either party may refer the disagreement to be
finally determined by arbitration under Stage Three of the Dispute
Resolution Chapter, without having to proceed through Stage Two.


38.
In undertaking works referred to in paragraph 34, British Columbia will
minimize the damage to, and time spent on, Nisg̱a'a Lands.


39.
British Columbia will pay fair compensation for any interference with,
or damage to, Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to the work referred to in
paragraph 34. Either party may refer a disagreement in respect of
compensation to be finally determined by arbitration under Stage Three
of the Dispute Resolution Chapter.


40.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in an emergency,
British Columbia may undertake works and take steps, on Nisg̱a'a Lands,
that are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect
works constructed on the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor or a secondary
provincial road right of way area, or to protect persons or vehicles
using the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road.


41.
In the event of an emergency referred to under paragraph 40, British
Columbia will, as soon as practicable, notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
relevant Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, in writing that it has
undertaken emergency work on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Consultation Regarding Traffic Regulation


42.
Upon request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, British
Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village
with respect to regulation of traffic and transportation on the Nisg̱a'a
Highway or a secondary provincial road that is adjacent to a settled
area on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Access and Safety Regulation


43.
British Columbia has the right to regulate all matters relating to:


a. the location and design of intersecting roads giving access to the
Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial roads, including:


i. regulating or requiring signs, signals, and other traffic control
devices on Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor and the secondary provincial road
rights of way areas,


ii. regulating or requiring merging lanes, on ramps and off ramps, or


iii. requiring contributions to the cost of (i) and (ii) above; and


b. the height and location of structures on Nisg̱a'a Lands immediately
adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor, or to a secondary provincial
road right of way area, only to the extent reasonably required to
protect the safety of the users of the Nisg̱a'a Highway and secondary
provincial roads.


44.
Subject to other provisions of this Agreement, British Columbia has no
authority to zone or otherwise regulate land use on Nisg̱a'a Lands
adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor or secondary provincial road
rights of way areas.


45.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will
consult with British Columbia on land use decisions relating to the
development of Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to the Nisg̱a'a Highway corridor.


Temporary Closure of Crown Roads


46.
Subject to paragraph 47, British Columbia may temporarily close a
portion of the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road for
reasons of safety, or for reasons of care and maintenance of the Nisg̱a'a
Highway or a secondary provincial road.



Administration of the Nisg̱a'a Highway and Secondary Provincial Roads



47.
British Columbia will administer the Nisg̱a'a Highway and secondary
provincial roads, including closing, abandoning, and maintaining them,
in the same manner as it administers comparable roads elsewhere in
British Columbia.


Relocation of Secondary Provincial Roads


48.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires a portion of a
secondary provincial road right of way area for another purpose, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village may request British Columbia to
relocate that portion of the right of way area, and if:


a. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a road of a
comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation,
and costs; and


b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation or that Nisg̱a'a Village pays all reasonable costs,
including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction


British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the
relocation.


49.
If a portion of a right of way is relocated under paragraph 48, the
right of way will be terminated for the portion of the road right of way
area that is abandoned, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village will
grant a new right of way for the relocated secondary provincial road.


50.
A relocation under paragraph 48 does not have any impact on the
calculation of the total rights of way area of British Columbia rights
of way.


Maintenance


51.
Subject to any agreement between British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village in respect of a secondary provincial road, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village has no responsibility or
liability for maintenance or repair of the Nisg̱a'a Highway or a
secondary provincial road.


Use of Existing Gravel Pits on Nisg̱a'a Lands


52.
British Columbia may enter, without charge, onto Nisg̱a'a Lands to
extract gravel materials from pits existing on the effective date to
construct and maintain the Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial
roads.


53.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, British Columbia will
prepare gravel management plans for the gravel materials pits existing
on the effective date as set out in Schedule B, and submit them to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, for approval,
which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.


54.
British Columbia, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village will
comply with the provisions of an approved gravel management plan.


55.
Without preparing a gravel management plan, British Columbia may
continue to use a gravel materials pit that is not listed in Schedule B
and that, as of the effective date, British Columbia has been using
intermittently as a source of gravel materials for local road
maintenance, but if the rate of extraction from that pit increases
materially, British Columbia will prepare a gravel management plan for
that pit in accordance with paragraph 53.



Development of New Gravel Materials Pits on Nisg̱a'a Lands



56.
Subject to paragraph 57, British Columbia may enter, without charge,
onto Nisg̱a'a Lands to locate and extract sufficient quantities of
unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on
Nisg̱a'a Lands for use by British Columbia to construct and maintain the
Nisg̱a'a Highway or secondary provincial roads.


57.
Before undertaking any excavation for gravel material samples or other
exploration work on Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 56, British Columbia
will prepare a written exploration plan, indicating generally the
proposed location of exploration and the method and extent of proposed
work, for approval by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village, as the
case may be, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.


58.
In respect of a written exploration plan under paragraph 57:


a. British Columbia will select a proposed location to explore for a
gravel materials pit, taking into account the effect of a development at
that proposed location on:


i. the lands adjacent to the proposed location, and


ii. any unique attributes of the lands at the proposed location and
adjacent lands; and


b. in considering whether to approve that plan, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, will take account of the cost
efficiencies of the proposed location in relation to alternate
locations.


59.
After approval is obtained under paragraph 57 for an exploration plan,
British Columbia will prepare and obtain approval for a gravel
management plan in accordance with paragraph 53 before commencing the
development of any gravel materials pit.



NISG̱A'A ROADS GENERAL


Public Use and Right to Close Nisg̱a'a Roads to Public


60.
Nisg̱a'a roads will be administered as follows:


a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation may close to the public any portion of a Nisg̱a'a
road that is not within Nisg̱a'a Village Lands; and


b. a Nisg̱a'a Village will permit public use of those Nisg̱a'a roads on
its Nisg̱a'a Village lands that would be open to the public in comparable
communities elsewhere in British Columbia, and accordingly may close a
Nisg̱a'a road in a Nisg̱a'a Village for safety reasons.


Maintenance


61.
British Columbia is not responsible or liable for maintenance or repair
of a Nisg̱a'a road.



Development of Gravel Materials Deposits on Crown Lands for Nisg̱a'a
Use



62.
Subject to paragraph 63, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may enter onto Crown lands
to locate and extract, without charge, sufficient quantities of
unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on Crown
lands for use by the Nisg̱a'a Nation for public purposes.


63.
The rights and obligations of British Columbia set out in paragraphs 52
to 59 and, as appropriate, British Columbia's normal application
procedures, will apply to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, in respect of the
location, development, and extraction of gravel materials on Crown
lands, under paragraph 62.


64.
British Columbia will not unreasonably withhold approval for any
exploration plan or gravel management plan prepared and submitted by the
Nisg̱a'a Nation under paragraph 63.



PRIVATE ROADS



Grant of Private Road Rights of Way as of the Effective Date



65.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant private road rights
of way for the private roads listed in Appendix C-1, Part 3.


Form of Grant for Private Road Rights of Way


66.
Grants for private road rights of way given on the effective date will
be substantially in the form of Appendix C-4, Document 2.


Termination of Private Rights of Way


67.
Subject to the express provisions of a grant of a private road right of
way, upon the termination of the interest or right to which that private
road right of way provides access, the private road right of way will
terminate.



UTILITIES GENERAL


Public Utility Rights of Way as of the Effective Date


68.
On the effective date:


a. for public utility works located on a Crown road right of way area on
Nisg̱a'a lands, British Columbia will be deemed to have granted the
public utility the right to use the Crown road right of way area for the
installation, operation, and maintenance of the existing utility
transmission and distribution works, subject to regulation by British
Columbia in the same manner as British Columbia regulates public
utilities on road rights of way elsewhere in British Columbia;


b. for Hydro works not located on a Crown road right of way area, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will give the grants to Hydro, as set out in Appendix
C-1, Part 2, substantially in the form set out in Appendix C-3, Document
1;


c. for BC TEL works not located on a Crown road right of way area, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation will give the grants to BC TEL as set out in Appendix
C-1, Part 2, substantially in the form set out in Appendix C-3, Document
2; and


d. to provide access across Nisg̱a'a Lands to Hydro rights of way areas
and works, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will grant to Hydro rights of way as set
out in Appendix C-1, Part 3, substantially in the form contained in
Appendix C-4, Document 3.


Public Utilities on Crown Roads


69.
Subject to this Chapter, public utilities may, with the prior written
approval of British Columbia, locate utility transmission and
distribution works on Crown roads rights of way areas.


Public Utilities on Nisg̱a'a Lands


70.
Subject to this Chapter, Hydro and BC TEL may, with the prior written
approval of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, locate distribution
works on Nisg̱a'a Lands to meet demands for service.


71.
Hydro or BC TEL may, with the prior written approval of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, install new works on Nisg̱a'a Lands and
provide new service connections after the effective date on terms
substantially as set out in:

a. Appendix C-3, Document 1 for Hydro; and
b. Appendix C-3, Document 2 for BC TEL

so that Hydro and BC TEL have the opportunity to extend their
distribution systems according to their policies in other comparable
communities in British Columbia.


72.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and each Nisg̱a'a Village will not unreasonably
withhold approval for Hydro or BC TEL works referred to in paragraph 71.


73.
Nothing in paragraph 71 or 72 requires Hydro or BC TEL to obtain
approval from the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village for usual service
extensions or connections to works on a Crown road right of way area or
a public utility right of way area.


Alterations to Hydro Rights of Way Areas


74.
If under the terms of a grant of a Hydro right of way the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or a Nisg̱a'a Village requires Hydro to:


a. relocate a portion of the Hydro right of way area for Hydro
transmission or distribution works existing on the effective date; or


b. include within a Hydro right of way area Hydro transmission or
distribution works that:


i. are located on Nisg̱a'a Lands outside of a Crown road right of way
area or Hydro right of way area; and

ii. exist on the effective date

the relocation or inclusion will not have any impact on the calculation
of the total rights of way area of British Columbia rights of way.



SCHEDULE A — NISG̱A'A HIGHWAY CORRIDOR




Section A —

Kincolith to that part of the southerly boundary of former
Lachkaltsap Indian Reserve No. 9, shown as being the southerly
boundary of Block A of District Lot 7051, Cassiar District, on
Plan 12431, excluding the portion within District Lot 2 and
District Lot 3965, being Red Bluff Indian Reserve No. 88, both in
Range 5 Coast District

Maps 103I.091, 103I.092, 103P.001, 103P.002, and 103P.003



Section B —

From the southerly boundary of former Lachkaltsap Indian Reserve
No. 9 shown as being Block A of District Lot 7051, Cassiar
District, on Plan 12431, to the southerly boundary of former
Zaulzap Indian Reserve No. 29, being the southerly boundary of

Anhluut'uksim La
x
mihl Angwinga'Asanskwhl

Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park)

Maps 103P.003, 103P.004, and 103P.014



Section C —

Anlaw Road (Gitwinksihlkw Access Road) between the easterly
boundary of former Gitwinksihlkw Indian Reserve No. 7 and the left
natural boundary of Nass River, which is also a portion of the
boundary of

Anhluut'uksim La
x
mihl Angwinga'Asanskwhl

Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park) as shown on
Land Act
Survey Plan 11 Tube 1711

Map 103P.014



Section D —

Section running between the right natural boundary of Tseax River
and the northerly boundary of the BC Hydro right of way lying
within District Lot 1726, as shown on Plan 7237 on deposit in the
Land Title Office in Prince George

Maps 103P.025 and 103P.026



Section E —

Aiyansh Road No. 180 between the Nisg̱a'a Highway running through
the Southeast 1/4 of District Lot 4011, Cassiar District, and the
northerly boundary of the Northeast 1/4 of District Lot 4012,
being part of the boundary of former New Aiyansh Indian Reserve
No. 1 as shown on RS5608 (52-09-14)

Map 103P.025



Section F —

Nass Forest Service Road (FSR 7876.01 – Section 01) running from
junction of Nisg̱a'a Highway with Road No. 325 northeasterly to its
intersection with the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands within District
Lot 1751, Cassiar District

Maps 103P.026 and 103P.036






SCHEDULE B — GRAVEL MATERIALS PITS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS





Aiyansh Pit

(Sandhill)


Pit No. 5221

103P.025



Anudol Pit

Pit No. 5223

103P.003



Ansedagan Pit

Pit No. 5233

103P.014



Ginlulak Quarry

Pit No. 5224A

103P.003



Ksedin Pit

Pit No. 5222

103P.004



Kwinhak Pit

Pit No. 5256

103P.003



Zaulzap Quarry

Pit No. 5206

103P.014






Contents
|



Sections 1-70

|



Schedule - Table of Contents

|


Preamble
|


Chapter 1
|


Chapter 2
|


Chapter 3
|


Chapter 4
|


Chapter 5
|


Chapter 6
|

Chapter 7 |

Chapter 8
|


Chapter 9
|



Chapter 10

|



Chapter 11

|



Chapter 12

|



Chapter 13

|



Chapter 14

|



Chapter 15

|



Chapter 16

|



Chapter 17

|



Chapter 18

|



Chapter 19

|



Chapter 20

|



Chapter 21

|



Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands

|



Appendix - Contents

|



Appendix - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M





