National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
Securities Act
Part 7 — Regulatory Action
The questions in Part 7 apply to any jurisdiction and any
foreign jurisdiction. The information must be provided in
respect of the last 7 years.
7.1
Settlement agreements
Has the firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm entered into a settlement agreement with any financial
services regulator, securities or derivatives exchange, SRO or
similar organization?
Yes [  ] No [  ]
If yes, provide the following information for each settlement
agreement:
Name of entity
Regulator/organization
Date of settlement (yyyy/mm/dd)
Details of settlement
Jurisdiction
7.2
Disciplinary history
Has any financial services regulator, securities or derivatives
exchange, SRO or similar organization ever:
Yes
No
(a) Determined that the firm, or any predecessors or
specified affiliates of the firm violated any securities
regulations or any rules of a securities or derivatives
exchange, SRO or similar organization?
(b) Determined that the firm, or any predecessors or
specified affiliates of the firm made a false statement or
omission?
(c) Issued a warning or requested an undertaking by the
firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm?
(d) Suspended or terminated any registration, licensing or
membership of the firm, or any predecessors or specified
affiliates of the firm?
(e) Imposed terms or conditions on any registration or
membership of the firm, or predecessors or specified
affiliates of the firm?
(f) Conducted a proceeding or investigation involving the
firm, or any predecessors or specified affiliates of the
firm?
(g) Issued an order (other than an exemption order) or a
sanction to the firm, or any predecessors or specified
affiliates of the firm for securities or
derivatives-related activity (e.g. cease trade order)
If yes, provide the following information for each action:
Name of entity
Type of action
Regulator/organization
Date of action (yyyy/mm/dd)
Reason for action
Jurisdiction
7.3
Ongoing investigations
Is the firm aware of any ongoing investigations of which the
firm or any of its specified affiliates is the subject?
Yes [  ] No [  ]
If yes, provide the following information for each
investigation:
Name of entity
Reason or purpose of investigation
Regulator/organization
Date investigation commenced (yyyy/mm/dd)
Jurisdiction
