National Instrument 45-110
Start-up Crowdfunding Registration
and Prospectus Exemptions
Securities Act
Yes
No
1. Risk acknowledgement
Risk of loss
— Do you understand that this is a risky investment and that you
may lose all the money you pay for this investment?
No income
— Do you understand that you may not earn any income, such as
dividends or interest, on this investment?
Liquidity risk
— Do you understand that you may never be able to sell this
investment?
Lack of information
— Do you understand that you may not be provided with any ongoing
information about the issuer and/or this investment?
2. No approval and no advice
Instruction: Delete "and no advice" if the funding portal is
operated by a registered dealer.
No approval
— Do you understand that this investment has not been reviewed or
approved in any way by a securities regulatory authority or
regulator?
No advice
— Do you understand that you will not receive advice about your
investment?
Instruction: Delete this row if the funding portal is operated
by a registered dealer.
3. Limited legal rights
Limited legal rights
— Do you understand that you will not have the same rights as if
you purchased under a prospectus or through a stock exchange?
If you want to know more, you may need to seek professional legal
advice.
4. Purchaser's acknowledgement
Investment risks
— Have you read this form and do you understand the risks of
making this investment?
Offering document
— Has an offering document relating to this investment been made
available to you on the funding portal?
The offering document contains important information about this
investment. If you have not read the offering document or if you
do not understand the information in it, you should not invest.
You should retain a copy of the offering document for your
records.
Have you read and do you understand the information in the
offering document?
First and last name:
Electronic signature:
By clicking the [I confirm] button, I acknowledge that I am
signing this form electronically and agree that this is the legal
equivalent of my handwritten signature. I will not at any time in
the future claim that my electronic signature is not legally
binding. The date of my electronic signature is the same as my
acknowledgement.
5. Additional information
•
You have two days to cancel your purchase by sending a notice to
the funding portal at:
Instruction: Provide email address where purchasers can send
their notice. Describe any other manner for purchasers to cancel
their purchase.
•
If you want more information about your local securities
regulation, go to www.securities-administrators.ca. Securities
regulators do not provide advice on investment.
•
To check if the funding portal is operated by a registered
dealer, go to www.aretheyregistered.ca.
Instruction: Delete if the funding portal is not operated by a
registered dealer.
