View complete statute Despite the above date, the schedule to the act, including the map of Nisg̱a'a lands and the appendices, is current to may 11, 2000. see "amending agreements" for amendments to the schedule.
Nisg̱a'a final agreement act [sbc 1999] chapter 2 Chapter 13
Indian act Transition
General
1.
The
Indian act Applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Estate of a nisg̱a'a citizen who:
A. died testate or intestate before the effective date; and B. at the time of death, was a member of the:
I. gitlakdamix indian band, Ii. gitwinksihlkw indian band, Iii. lakalzap indian band, or Iv. gingolx indian band.
2.
Before the effective date, canada will take reasonable steps to:
A. notify in writing all members of the nisg̱a'a indian bands that are Referred to in paragraph 1 who have deposited wills with the minister; And
B. provide information to persons who may be eligible for enrolment Under this agreement That their wills may not be valid after the effective date, and that Their wills should be reviewed to ensure validity under provincial laws.
3.
Section 51 of the Indian act Applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Property and estate of a nisg̱a'a citizen:
A. who was a "mentally incompetent indian" as defined in the Indian act Immediately before the effective date; and B. whose property and estate was under the authority of the minister Under section 51 of the Indian act Immediately before the effective date Until they are no longer a "mentally incompetent indian".
4.
Sections 52, 52.2, 52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 of the Indian act Apply, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Administration of any property to which a nisg̱a'a citizen who is an Infant child of an indian is entitled, if the minister was administering That property under the Indian act Immediately before the effective date, until the duties of the minister In respect of the administration have been discharged.
5.
Nisg̱a'a government will provide for participation in nisg̱a'a public Institutions by individuals who are ordinarily resident within nisg̱a'a Lands, who are not nisg̱a'a citizens, and who were members of the indian Bands referred to in paragraph 1 on the date immediately before the Effective date.
6.
The means of participation under paragraph 5 will be:
A. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to a nisg̱a'a public Institution;
B. the ability to vote for, or become a member of, a nisg̱a'a public Institution if the members of the nisg̱a'a public institution are Elected; or C. other comparable measures.
Continuation of Indian act By-laws 7.
The by-laws of the gitlakdamix, gitwinksihlkw, gingolx or lakalzap Indian bands that were in effect immediately before the effective date, Have effect for 30 days after the effective date on the nisg̱a'a village Lands of the nisg̱a'a village government that replaces the band council That made the by-law.
8.
The relationship between a by-law referred to in paragraph 7, and Federal and provincial laws, will be governed by the provisions of this Agreement governing the relationship between nisg̱a'a laws and federal And provincial laws in respect of the subject matter of the by-law.
9.
The nisg̱a'a village government replacing the band council that made a By-law referred to in paragraph 7, may repeal, but not amend, that By-law.
10.
Nothing in this agreement precludes a person from challenging the Validity of a by-law referred to in paragraph 7.
Status of bands and transfer of band assets 11.
Subject to this agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights, Titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of:
A. the gitlakdamix indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of new Aiyansh;
B. the gitwinksihlkw indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of Gitwinksihlkw;
C. the lakalzap indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of la X
Galt'sap; and D. the gingolx indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of gingolx And those indian bands cease to exist.
12.
On the effective date, nisg̱a'a lisims government will designate the Nisg̱a'a lands that were, before the effective date, indian reserves set Aside for the use and benefit of:
A. the gitlakdamix indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of new aiyansh; B. the gitwinksihlkw indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of Gitwinksihlkw;
C. the lakalzap indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of la X
Galt'sap; and D. the gingolx indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of gingolx.
Nisg̱a'a tribal council 13.
Subject to this agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights, Titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of the nisg̱a'a Tribal council vest in the nisg̱a'a nation, and the nisg̱a'a tribal Council ceases to exist.
Contents
| Sections 1-70
| Schedule - table of contents | Preamble
| Chapter 1
| Chapter 2
| Chapter 3
| Chapter 4
| Chapter 5
| Chapter 6
| Chapter 7
| Chapter 8
| Chapter 9
| Chapter 10
| Chapter 11
| Chapter 12
| Chapter 13 |
Chapter 14
| Chapter 15
| Chapter 16
| Chapter 17
| Chapter 18
| Chapter 19
| Chapter 20
| Chapter 21
| Chapter 22
| Schedule - map of nisg̱a'a lands | Appendix - contents | Appendix - introduction | Appendix a | Appendix b | Appendix c | Appendix d | Appendix e | Appendix f | Appendix g | Appendix h | Appendix i | Appendix j | Appendix k | Appendix l | Appendix m