View Complete Statute
Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2
CHAPTER 3
LANDS
NISG̱A'A LANDS
General
1.
On the effective date, Nisg̱a'a Lands consist of all lands, including
islands, within the boundaries set out in Appendix A except submerged
lands, the Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve, the Nisg̱a'a Highway
corridor, and the lands within the boundaries set out in Appendix B:
a. Appendix B-1 — land in the vicinity of Red Bluff that has been set
apart as Indian Reserve No. 88;
b. Appendix B-2 — land in respect of which British Columbia has granted
an estate in fee simple;
c. Appendix B-3 — land in respect of which British Columbia has granted
an agriculture lease or woodlot licence; and
d. Appendix B-4 — roads associated with the land referred to in Appendix
B-2.
2.
On the effective date, Nisg̱a'a Lands comprise 1,992 square kilometres,
more or less, of land in the lower Nass Valley, consisting of:
a. 1,930 square kilometres, more or less; and
b. 62 square kilometres, more or less, of lands identified as former
Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix A-4, and which cease to be Indian
reserves on the effective date.
Ownership of Nisg̱a'a Lands
3.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns Nisg̱a'a Lands in fee
simple, being the largest estate known in law. This estate is not
subject to any condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or
reservation set out in the
Land Act
, or any comparable limitation under any federal or provincial law. No
estate or interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands can be expropriated except as
permitted by, and in accordance with, this Agreement.
4.
In accordance with this Agreement, the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, and Nisg̱a'a
law, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may:
a. dispose of the whole of its estate in fee simple in any parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands to any person; and
b. from the whole of its estate in fee simple, or its interest, in any
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, create, or dispose of any lesser estate or
interest to any person, including rights of way and covenants similar to
those in sections 218 and 219 of the
Land Title Act
without the consent of Canada or British Columbia.
5.
A parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands does not cease to be Nisg̱a'a Lands as a result
of any change in ownership of an estate or interest in that parcel.
6.
All methods of acquiring a right in or over land by prescription or by
adverse possession, including the common law doctrine of prescription
and the doctrine of the lost modern grant, are abolished in respect of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
7.
If, at any time, any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or any estate or interest
in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, finally escheats to the Crown, the Crown
will transfer, at no charge, that parcel, estate or interest to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation.
8.
Neither:
a. any estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village in
any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands to which the provincial Torrens system does
not apply; nor
b. any interest, right, privilege or title of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village reserved or excepted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a
Village from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands
is subject to attachment, charge other than charges that are liens in
favour of Canada or British Columbia, seizure, distress, execution, or
sale, except under an instrument, including a mortgage or other security
instrument, in favour of a person and granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or
the Nisg̱a'a Village, or if allowed under a law made by Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government under paragraph 44 of the Nisg̱a'a Government Chapter.
Additions to Nisg̱a'a Lands
9.
If, at any time, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to any
parcel of land within the boundaries set out in Appendix B-1, B-2, or
B-3, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with the consent of the owner, add that
parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands. That parcel of land, together with any
roads identified in Appendix B-4 associated with it, will become Nisg̱a'a
Lands upon receipt by Canada and British Columbia of written notice from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation identifying that parcel of land and attaching the
written consent of the owner of that parcel of land.
10.
If, at any time:
a. British Columbia owns the estate in fee simple to any land within the
boundaries set out in Appendix B-2; or
b. any land within the boundaries set out in Appendix B-3 ceases to be
subject to an agriculture lease or a woodlot licence existing on the
effective date
British Columbia will offer to sell the estate in fee simple to that
land to the Nisg̱a'a Nation for a price not to exceed fair market value.
11.
If, at any time, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation or a Nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to a
parcel of land that is contiguous with Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than land
referred to in Appendix B-1, B-2, or B-3, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with
the consent of the owner and the agreement of Canada and British
Columbia, add the land to Nisg̱a'a Lands. If the owner consents and
Canada, British Columbia, and the Nisg̱a'a Nation agree that the land may
be added to Nisg̱a'a Lands, the land will become Nisg̱a'a Lands upon
receipt by Canada and British Columbia of written notice in accordance
with that agreement.
12.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation adds a parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands under
paragraph 9 or 11, that land will be subject to:
a. any existing charge, encumbrance, licence, or permit;
b. any subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or
reservation, contained in:
i. the original grant or disposition from the Crown,
ii. any other grant or disposition from the Crown, or
iii. the
Land Act
other than those in favour of the Crown at the time of the addition of
the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands; and
c. any limitation under federal or provincial law comparable to those
set out in subparagraph 12(b), other than those in favour of the Crown
at the time of the addition of the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands.
13.
When a parcel of land becomes Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 9 or 11, any
subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or reservation
referred to in subparagraph 12(b) or (c) that is in favour of the Crown
at the time of the addition of the parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands, will
terminate.
14.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation adds a parcel of land to Nisg̱a'a Lands under
paragraph 9 or 11, Appendix A-1, A-2, and A-3, and Appendix B-1, B-2,
B-3, or B-4, as the case may be, will be amended to reflect the change
to the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands.
Boundary Resolution
15.
If a Party provides the other Parties with a proposal to clarify the
location of any part of a boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will
follow the procedure set out in Schedule A.
Designations of Nisg̱a'a Lands
16.
Nisg̱a'a Lands comprise Nisg̱a'a Public Lands, Nisg̱a'a Private Lands, and
Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.
17.
Nisg̱a'a Public Lands are Nisg̱a'a Lands other than those designated by
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government as Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or Nisg̱a'a Private
Lands.
18.
Nisg̱a'a Private Lands include:
a. lands in which Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government creates an exclusive
interest; and
b. lands that are otherwise required for uses that are incompatible with
public access, including commercial, cultural, or resource development
uses.
MINERAL RESOURCES
19.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 3, on the effective
date the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all mineral resources on or under Nisg̱a'a
Lands.
20.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has the exclusive authority to determine,
collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in
respect of mineral resources on or under Nisg̱a'a Lands.
21.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and British Columbia may enter into agreements
in respect of the application on Nisg̱a'a Lands of provincial
administrative systems relating to:
a. claim staking;
b. recording and inspecting of subsurface exploration and development;
c. the collection of fees, rents, royalties, and other charges by
British Columbia on behalf of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government; and
d. other similar matters.
SUBMERGED LANDS WITHIN NISG̱A'A LANDS
22.
British Columbia owns the submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands.
23.
British Columbia will provide written notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation of
any proposed disposition of an estate or interest in, or use or
occupation of, submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands.
24.
British Columbia will not, in respect of submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a
Lands:
a. grant an estate in fee simple;
b. grant a lease that, with any rights of renewal, may exceed 25 years;
c. transfer administration and control for a period that may exceed 25
years; or
d. otherwise dispose of an estate or interest in, or authorize the use
or occupation of, submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands if that
disposition, use, or occupation would adversely affect Nisg̱a'a Lands or
Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this Agreement
without the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, which consent will not be
unreasonably withheld.
25.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia to acquire an estate or
interest in, or for authorization to use or occupy, submerged lands
within Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia will not unreasonably refuse to
grant the estate or interest or to issue the authorization if:
a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the acquisition, use, or
occupation; and
b. the proposed acquisition or authorization conforms to provincial law
respecting the disposition, use, or occupation of submerged lands within
British Columbia.
26.
A dispute as to whether:
a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation is unreasonably withholding consent under
paragraph 24; or
b. British Columbia is unreasonably refusing to grant an estate or
interest, or to issue an authorization, under paragraph 25
will be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution
Chapter.
27.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 22 to 26 do not affect any property
rights of upland owners of Nisg̱a'a Lands adjacent to submerged lands.
INTERESTS ON NISG̱A'A LANDS
Definition of "Interests"
28.
In paragraphs 29 to 41,
"interests"
includes estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, encumbrances,
licences, and permits.
Former Interests Cease to Exist
29.
On the effective date:
a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation's title to Nisg̱a'a Lands is free and clear of all
interests, except:
i. those granted or issued under paragraphs 30 to 40,
ii. those referred to in paragraph 41,
iii. those continued or issued under the transition provisions of the
Forest Resources Chapter, and
iv. those granted under the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter; and
b. subject to paragraph 41, and the transition provisions of the Forest
Resources Chapter, every interest that, before the effective date,
encumbered or applied to the lands that are Nisg̱a'a Lands, ceases to
exist.
Replacement Interests
30.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, in accordance with paragraphs 31 to 40, and the
Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, will grant or issue interests to those
persons who are named in Appendix C-1 as persons who, immediately before
the effective date, had interests in the lands that comprise Nisg̱a'a
Lands on the effective date.
31.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will execute documents
granting or issuing to each person named in Appendix C-1 that person's
interest, as set out in that Appendix.
32.
A document executed under paragraph 31 for an interest set out in Part I
of Appendix C-1 will be in the applicable form set out in Appendix C-2
and will include any modifications agreed upon in writing before the
effective date by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and the person entitled to
the interest.
33.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will issue to each person
named in Appendix C-5 a certificate of possession for the parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands ascribed to that person and described in Appendix C-5.
34.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will issue to each person
named in Appendix C-6 a certificate of possession for the parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands ascribed to that person and described in Appendix C-6.
35.
A person to whom the Nisg̱a'a Nation issues a certificate of possession
under paragraph 33 or 34 will have substantially the same right to
possess the described parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as the person would have
had as the holder of a certificate of possession under the
Indian Act
immediately before the effective date, modified to reflect Nisg̱a'a
Government jurisdiction over, and Nisg̱a'a Nation ownership of, Nisg̱a'a
Lands.
36.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village may,
in accordance with Nisg̱a'a law, replace the certificates of possession
issued under paragraphs 33 or 34 with estates or interests in, or
licences to use or possess, the described parcels of Nisg̱a'a Lands. If
the certificates of possession are replaced with licences, the licences
will include rights to use and possess the land comparable to, or
greater than, those set out in those certificates of possession.
37.
A document referred to in paragraph 31, 33 or 34, or in paragraph 7 of
the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, will be deemed to be:
a. delivered by the Nisg̱a'a Nation on the effective date; and
b. executed and delivered by each person referred to in those paragraphs
on the effective date, whether or not the document is actually executed
or delivered by that person.
38.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will, as soon as practicable after the effective
date, physically deliver the applicable document:
a. to each person named in Appendix C-1, C-5, or C-6; or
b. to any other person who, before the effective date:
i. was identified in writing to the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council by Canada or
British Columbia as the person who, instead of a person named in
Appendix C-1 or C-5, should receive an interest referred to in Appendix
C-1 or C-5 by reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation
of law, or
ii. was identified in writing to Canada and British Columbia by the
Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council as the person who, instead of a person named in
Appendix C-6, should receive an interest referred to in Appendix C-6 by
reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation of law
and the Appendix will be amended to reflect the change.
39.
If Canada or British Columbia notifies the Nisg̱a'a Nation that an
interest granted under paragraph 30, 31, 33, or 34:
a. is in the name of a person who was not actually entitled to the
interest on the effective date; or
b. contains a clerical error or a wrong description of a material fact
the appropriate Parties will take reasonable measures to rectify the
error.
40.
Any right of way of the nature described in section 218 of the
Land Title Act
that is granted by the Nisg̱a'a Nation under this Agreement is legally
binding and enforceable notwithstanding that the Nisg̱a'a Lands to which
the right of way relates are not subject to the
Land Title Act
.
Licences and Traplines
41.
The traplines, guide outfitter licence and certificate, and angling
guide licences set out in Appendix C-7 are retained by the persons who
hold those interests on the effective date in accordance with provincial
laws of general application and the Wildlife and Migratory Birds
Chapter. If an interest referred to in this paragraph is not renewed or
replaced, that interest will cease to exist.
Indemnities
42.
British Columbia will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation
from any damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and
disbursements of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the
Nisg̱a'a Nation may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of
any claims, demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out
of:
a. the omission from Appendix C-1 of the name of a person who,
immediately before the effective date, had an interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands
that had been granted by British Columbia; or
b. the incorrect naming of a person in Appendix C-1 as a person entitled
to an interest, where another person was actually entitled, immediately
before the effective date, to the interest in Nisg̱a'a Lands that had
been granted by British Columbia.
43.
Canada will indemnify and save harmless the Nisg̱a'a Nation from any
damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and disbursements
of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the Nisg̱a'a Nation
may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of any claims,
demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out of:
a. the omission from Appendix C-1 or C-5 of the name of a person who,
immediately before the effective date, had an interest in or a
certificate of possession in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands that had been
granted by Canada; or
b. the incorrect naming of a person in Appendix C-1 or C-5 as a person
entitled to an interest or certificate of possession, where another
person was actually entitled, immediately before the effective date, to
the interest or the certificate of possession in respect of Nisg̱a'a
Lands that had been granted by Canada.
SITE REMEDIATION
44.
British Columbia will inspect the sites set out in Schedule B and will
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, appropriate remediation of any
contamination at each site as follows:
a. British Columbia, or the person undertaking the remediation, will
give notice to the Nisg̱a'a Nation no more than 60 days before commencing
the remediation; and
b. whether a site is contaminated, and the nature and extent of the
appropriate remediation, will be determined under British Columbia law
and, for the purposes of those determinations, the use of the site will
be deemed to be either:
i. the actual use of the site on the date of the notice under
subparagraph (a); or
ii. if the site is not in use on the date of the notice under
subparagraph (a), the use identified in Schedule B.
NISG̱A'A FEE SIMPLE LANDS OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS
45.
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands consist of Category A Lands and Category B
Lands as described in Appendix D.
Category A Lands
46.
Category A Lands are the parcels of land set out in Appendix D-2 and
D-3, and consist of:
a. the lands identified as former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix
D-2 and D-3; and
b. certain lands adjacent to some of those former Nisg̱a'a Indian
reserves.
47.
On the effective date, the lands outside Nisg̱a'a Lands that are
identified as former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves in Appendix D-2 and D-3
cease to be Indian reserves.
48.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns the estate in fee simple
to Category A Lands.
49.
The estate in fee simple to Category A Lands is subject to the rights
referred to in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (iii) of the
Land Act
but is not subject to any other conditions, provisos, restrictions,
exceptions, or reservations set out in section 50 of the
Land Act
, and no estate or interest in Category A Lands can be expropriated from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this
Agreement.
50.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 51, the estate in fee simple
to Category A Lands is free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except
those set out in Appendix D-4.
51.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all mineral resources on
or under Category A Lands, free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except for
the mineral claims set out in Appendix D-4.
52.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the submerged lands within
the Category A Lands other than the submerged lands within the Category
A Lands described in Appendix D-2 as former I.R. Nos. 24, 27, and 27A,
and extensions, and those submerged lands are owned by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.
53.
A parcel of Category A Lands ceases to be Category A Lands if no estate
or interest in that parcel is owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a  Corporation or a Nisg̱a'a citizen.
54.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation disposes of the estate in fee simple in the
Category A Lands described in Appendix D-2 as former I.R. No. 15 and
extension, it will reserve to itself a blanket right of way for the
purpose of providing road access across that parcel to adjacent lands.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will, on request of British Columbia, assign the
benefit of the right of way over that portion of that parcel upon which
the forest service road existing on the effective date is located, in
accordance with the following:
a. any assignment will be on reasonable terms, including the location of
the requested right of way area, its width considering the intended use,
its effect on neighbouring lands and payment of fair compensation, but,
notwithstanding subparagraph (d) of the definition of "fair
compensation", particular cultural values will not be included in the
determination of fair compensation; and
b. if British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation are unable to agree on the
terms of the assignment, including the reasonableness of the proposed
terms or location of the requested right of way area, the terms of the
assignment will be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute
Resolution Chapter, but the arbitrator will not have authority to
require British Columbia to accept an assignment of the right of way.
Provincial Expropriation of Category A Lands
55.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate an estate or
interest in Category A Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen under provincial legislation
only if the expropriation is:
a. justifiable and necessary for a provincial public purpose;
b. of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest
time required, for that provincial public purpose;
c. by and for the use of a provincial ministry or agent of the
provincial Crown; and
d. with the consent of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
56.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the
estate in fee simple in Category A Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair
compensation.
57.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, including the mineral resources, in Category A Lands from the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the estate in fee simple with:
a. equivalent Crown land if:
i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation request compensation in the form of
equivalent Crown land, and
ii. equivalent Crown land is available; or
b. fair compensation if:
i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation do not request equivalent Crown
land,
ii. equivalent Crown land is not available, or
iii. the owner, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and British Columbia otherwise
agree.
58.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, including the mineral resources, in Category A Lands from a
Nisg̱a'a citizen, British Columbia will provide the owner of the estate
in fee simple with fair compensation.
59.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple, excluding any mineral resources, in Category A Lands under
paragraph 55, the owner of the estate in fee simple and the Nisg̱a'a
Nation may require British Columbia to include the mineral resources in
the expropriation. If the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation require British
Columbia to include the mineral resources in the expropriation,
paragraph 57 applies to the expropriation.
60.
Unless British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation otherwise agree, any
lands provided by British Columbia to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for
an expropriation of an estate or interest in Category A Lands will
become Category A Lands.
Category B Lands
61.
Category B Lands are the parcels of land outside Nisg̱a'a Lands set out
in Appendix D-6 and D-7.
62.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns the estate in fee simple
to Category B Lands.
63.
The estate in fee simple to Category B Lands is subject to the
conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations set out
in paragraph 50 (1) (a) of the
Land Act
, except that set out in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (i) of the
Land Act
, but no estate or interest in Category B Lands can be expropriated from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this
Agreement.
64.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 65, the estate in fee simple
to Category B Lands is free and clear of all estates, interests,
charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except
those set out in Appendix D-8.
65.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the submerged lands within
the Category B Lands.
66.
On the effective date, British Columbia owns the mineral resources on or
under the Category B Lands that are reserved to the Crown under
subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (ii) of the
Land Act
.
67.
A parcel of Category B Land ceases to be Category B Lands if no estate
or interest in that parcel is owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen.
Provincial Expropriation of Category B Lands
68.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate the estate in fee
simple or any interest in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen under
provincial legislation only if compensation is provided in accordance
with paragraphs 69 to 72.
69.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the
estate in fee simple in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British
Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair
compensation.
70.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee
simple in Category B Lands from the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, British Columbia will provide the owner of the
estate in fee simple with:
a. equivalent Crown land if:
i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation request compensation in the form of
equivalent Crown land, and
ii. equivalent Crown land is available; or
b. fair compensation if:
i. the owner and the Nisg̱a'a Nation do not request equivalent Crown
Land,
ii. equivalent Crown land is not available, or
iii. the owner, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree.
71.
If British Columbia expropriates the estate in fee simple in Category B
Lands from a Nisg̱a'a citizen, British Columbia will provide the owner
with fair compensation.
72.
Unless British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation otherwise agree, any
lands provided by British Columbia to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for
an expropriation of an estate or interest in Category B Lands will
become Category B Lands.
FEDERAL ACQUISITION OF INTERESTS IN NISG̱A'A LANDS AND NISG̱A'A FEE
SIMPLE LANDS
General
73.
Canada acknowledges that it is of fundamental importance to maintain the
size and integrity of Nisg̱a'a Lands and Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, and
therefore, as a general principle, estates or interests in Nisg̱a'a
Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, will not be expropriated under
federal legislation.
Governor in Council Consent
74.
Notwithstanding paragraph 73, an estate or interest in a parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, may be expropriated under
federal legislation if the Governor in Council consents to the
expropriation.
75.
The Governor in Council will consent to an expropriation of an estate or
interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, only
if the expropriation:
a. is justifiable and necessary for a federal public purpose; and
b. is of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest
time required, for that federal public purpose.
76.
The Governor in Council will not consent to an expropriation of a parcel
of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, if other lands suitable
for the federal public purpose are reasonably available.
77.
Before the Governor in Council considers an expropriation of an estate
or interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands,
it will ensure that Canada has:
a. consulted the Nisg̱a'a Nation;
b. ensured that reasonable efforts have been made to acquire the estate
or interest through agreement with the owner of the estate or interest;
and
c. provided the Nisg̱a'a Nation with all information relevant to the
expropriation other than federal Cabinet documents.
78.
If the Governor in Council consents to an expropriation, Canada will
provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation with the reasons for the expropriation.
Effect of Expropriation
79.
If an estate or interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands is expropriated
under paragraph 74, Nisg̱a'a laws continue to apply to that parcel of
land except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with the
ability to use and occupy that land for the purpose for which that
estate or interest was expropriated.
80.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands is expropriated under paragraph 74, the owner of
the estate in fee simple in that parcel of land may continue to use and
occupy that land, except to the extent that the use or occupation is
inconsistent with the purpose for which that estate or interest was
expropriated.
81.
If there is an expropriation under paragraph 74 of the estate in fee
simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or of
the estate in fee simple in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, Canada
will, at the request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, ensure that
reasonable efforts are made to acquire alternative land of equivalent
significance and value to offer as part or all of the compensation for
the expropriation. Any alternative land that is contiguous with Nisg̱a'a
Lands may become Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with paragraph 9.
82.
Canada will ensure that the owner of the estate or interest that is
expropriated under paragraph 74 receives compensation, taking into
account:
a. the cost of acquiring alternative land of equivalent significance and
value;
b. the market value of the estate or interest that is expropriated;
c. the replacement value of any improvements on the land that is
expropriated;
d. disturbance caused by the expropriation; and
e. if the owner of the estate or interest that is expropriated is the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a
citizen, any adverse effect on any cultural or other special value of
the land to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village.
83.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or less than the estate in fee simple in a
parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, has been expropriated under
paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the purpose for which it was
expropriated, Canada will ensure that the interest in those lands is
transferred at no charge to the owner of the estate in fee simple. The
terms of that transfer will be negotiated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Canada at the time of the expropriation.
84.
If the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or a parcel of Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, has been
expropriated under paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the
purpose for which it was expropriated, Canada will ensure that the
estate in fee simple is transferred at no charge to the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or the Nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be. The terms of that transfer
will be negotiated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Canada at the time of the
expropriation.
85.
The consent of the Governor in Council is not required to determine
whether the estate or interest is no longer required for the purpose for
which it was expropriated.
86.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or Canada may refer a dispute in respect of the value
and nature of the compensation, or the terms of transfer, to be finally
determined by arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Chapter.
INITIAL SURVEYS
87.
Before the effective date, or as soon as practicable after the effective
date, surveys will be conducted of the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands and
Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands in accordance with instructions to be issued by
the Surveyor General of British Columbia and approved by the Parties
(the "Initial Surveys").
88.
British Columbia and Canada will, as agreed between them, pay the full
cost of the Initial Surveys.
89.
The Parties may, before or after the effective date, amend Appendices A
and D to reflect minor adjustments that may be agreed upon by the
Parties as a result of the Initial Surveys.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION TENURE
90.
After the effective date, at the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, British
Columbia will issue a commercial recreation tenure (the "Nisg̱a'a
commercial recreation tenure") to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or to a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation designated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for the areas set out in
Appendix E based on the "Nisg̱a'a Commercial Recreation Tenure Management
Plan" developed by the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and British Columbia and
approved on July 6, 1998.
91.
The term of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will be 27 years.
92.
If no request is made under paragraph 90 within 90 days after the
effective date, British Columbia will issue the Nisg̱a'a commercial
recreation tenure to the Nisg̱a'a Nation no later than 100 days after the
effective date.
93.
The first seven years of the term of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation
tenure will be a phase-in period, and during that period:
a. the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will permit, but not
require, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the designated Nisg̱a'a Corporation to
carry out activities in accordance with the Nisg̱a'a Commercial
Recreation Tenure Management Plan; and
b. British Columbia will not issue another commercial recreation tenure
within the areas set out in Appendix E that conflicts with the Nisg̱a'a
Commercial Recreation Tenure Management Plan.
94.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may, with the consent of British Columbia, which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld, assign the Nisg̱a'a commercial
recreation tenure to a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, and upon that assignment
British Columbia will release the Nisg̱a'a Nation from any obligations
under the tenure that are assumed by the assignee.
HERITAGE SITES AND KEY GEOGRAPHIC FEATURES
95.
On the effective date, British Columbia will designate as provincial
heritage sites the sites of cultural and historic significance outside
Nisg̱a'a Lands that are set out in Appendix F-1. The Parties acknowledge
that those sites may have cultural or historic significance to persons
or groups other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation.
96.
On the effective date, British Columbia will:
a. record the Nisg̱a'a names and historic background information for the
geographic features that are set out in Appendix F-2 in the British
Columbia Geographic Names data base (BCGNIS); and
b. name or rename in the Nisg̱a'a language the geographic features that
are set out in Appendix F-3.
97.
After the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may propose that British
Columbia name or rename other geographic features with Nisg̱a'a names,
and British Columbia will consider those proposals in accordance with
applicable provincial laws.
PARKS AND ECOLOGICAL RESERVE
Definitions
98.
In paragraphs 99 to 118:
a.
"Park"
means
Anhluut'ukwsim La
x
mihl Angwinga'asanskwhl
Nisg̱a'a
,
the Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park; and
b.
"Ecological Reserve"
means the Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve, #115.
General
99.
Subject to this Agreement, British Columbia's authority and
responsibilities in respect of the Park and the Ecological Reserve will
continue.
100.
Subject to paragraph 101, Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to traditional
uses of the lands and resources within the Park and the Ecological
Reserve, including domestic resource harvesting, in accordance with this
Agreement and in a manner consistent with any management plan agreed to
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia.
101.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will not permit commercial resource extraction or other
commercial activity within the Park or the Ecological Reserve.
102.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation has the right to participate in the planning,
management, and development of the Park and the Ecological Reserve in
accordance with this Agreement.
Anhluut'ukwsim La
x
mihl Angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a
, Nisg̱a'a Memorial Lava Bed Park
103.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will continue the Park as a Class "A" provincial park or a
provincial park with an equivalent classification.
104.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the Park are as set out in
Appendix G-1.
105.
Nisg̱a'a history and culture are, and will be promoted as, the primary
cultural features of the Park.
106.
In order to facilitate the planning, management, and development of the
Park, British Columbia and the Nisg̱a'a Nation will continue the Joint
Park Management Committee that was established under the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council and British Columbia
dated April 30, 1992.
107.
The Joint Park Management Committee will review and make recommendations
to the Minister and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect of:
a. the development and periodic revision of the master plan, and all
other plans, applicable to or proposed for the Park;
b. encumbrances, park use permits, and other interests and
authorizations, applicable to or proposed for the Park;
c. any business plans, operations budgets, and capital budgets proposed
for the Park;
d. archaeological and other research projects, cultural and interpretive
programs, publications, and communications strategies proposed for the
Park or the Ecological Reserve;
e. planning and management of activities, including development, on
Crown land and Nisg̱a'a Lands that could affect the Park;
f. issues relating to the management of the Ecological Reserve; and
g. issues relating to traditional uses of resources, including cedar
trees.
108.
The Joint Park Management Committee has no more than six members. The
Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will each appoint no more than three
members as their representatives.
109.
The Joint Park Management Committee will meet as often as is necessary
to carry out its responsibilities, and will establish its procedures.
110.
Whenever possible, the Joint Park Management Committee will carry out
its responsibilities by consensus. If there is no consensus, the Joint
Park Management Committee will submit the recommendations of each
Party's representatives.
111.
After considering the recommendations of the Joint Park Management
Committee made under paragraph 107, the Minister, on a timely basis,
will approve or reject in whole or in part the recommendations, other
than those in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands, made by the Joint Park
Management Committee or its members, and will provide written reasons
for rejecting in whole or in part those recommendations. Any approval or
rejection of a recommendation will be consistent with this Agreement.
112.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive
recommendations from the Joint Park Management Committee, the Minister:
a. may make the decision or take the action that the Minister considers
necessary, without receiving recommendations from the Joint Park
Management Committee;
b. will advise Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Joint Park Management
Committee as soon as practicable of that decision or action; and
c. will provide Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and the Joint Park Management
Committee with written reasons for that decision or action.
113.
British Columbia has the responsibility to fund the Park in accordance
with appropriations for parks in British Columbia. British Columbia will
provide similar treatment over time to the Park as it generally provides
to comparable parks in British Columbia.
Gingietl Creek Ecological Reserve
114.
Unless the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia otherwise agree, British
Columbia will continue the Ecological Reserve as an ecological reserve
or another equivalent designation.
115.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the Ecological Reserve are as
set out in Appendix G-2.
116.
At the request of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British
Columbia will jointly determine whether, and the terms and conditions
under which, a road across the Ecological Reserve can be located,
constructed, and controlled, in a manner that will have minimal adverse
impact on the unique ecological values for which the Ecological Reserve
was established.
117.
If it is determined under paragraph 116 or 118 that a road across the
Ecological Reserve can be constructed, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may construct,
operate, and maintain the road as if it were a Nisg̱a'a road that is not
within Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, and British Columbia will issue to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation an exclusive and perpetual right of way for those
purposes, in accordance with the terms and conditions determined under
paragraph 116 or 118.
118.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation or British Columbia may refer a dispute under
paragraph 116 or 117 to be finally determined by arbitration under the
Dispute Resolution Chapter.
Other Parks
119.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of
planning and management of other provincial parks in the Nass Area.
120.
On the effective date, British Columbia will establish, and thereafter
continue, Bear Glacier Park as a Class "A" provincial park, or a
provincial park with an equivalent classification, with the boundaries
set out in Appendix G-3.
121.
At the request of any of the Parties, the Parties will negotiate and
attempt to reach agreement on the establishment of a marine park in the
Nass Area, but, for greater certainty, Canada is not obliged to
establish a national park, national park reserve, or a national marine
park, or to reach agreement on the establishment of a national park,
national park reserve, or a national marine park.
WATER VOLUMES
Nisg̱a'a Water Reservation
122.
On the effective date, British Columbia will establish a Nisg̱a'a water
reservation, in favour of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, of 300,000 cubic
decametres of water per year from:
a. the Nass River; and
b. other streams wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands
for domestic, industrial, and agricultural purposes.
123.
The Nisg̱a'a water reservation will have priority over all water licences
other than:
a. water licences issued before March 22, 1996; and
b. water licences issued pursuant to an application made before March
22, 1996.
124.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may, with the consent of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, apply to
British Columbia for water licences for volumes of flow to be applied
against the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.
125.
The total volume of flow under water licences to be applied against the
Nisg̱a'a water reservation of each stream may not exceed:
a. the percentage of the available flow, specified in Schedule C, of
each stream set out in that Schedule; or
b. 50% of the available flow of any stream not set out in Schedule C.
126.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia for a water licence for a
volume of flow to be applied against the Nisg̱a'a water reservation and:
a. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the application;
b. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements;
c. the application is for a volume of flow that, together with the total
volume of flow licenced for that stream under this paragraph, does not
exceed the percentage of available flow for that stream referred to in
paragraph 125; and
d. there is a sufficient unlicensed volume of flow in the Nisg̱a'a water
reservation
British Columbia will approve the application and issue the water
licence. The volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under
this paragraph will be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow in
the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.
127.
If a water licence issued under paragraph 126 is cancelled, expires, or
otherwise terminates, the volume of flow in that licence will be added
to the unlicensed volume of flow in the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.
128.
A water licence issued under paragraph 126 will not be subject to any
rentals, fees, or other charges by British Columbia.
129.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to British Columbia for a water licence for a
volume of flow from a stream wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands
and:
a. all of the available flow for that stream referred to in paragraph
125 is licensed under paragraph 126;
b. the Nisg̱a'a Nation has consented to the application;
c. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements; and
d. the stream contains a sufficient volume of:
i. unrecorded water, and
ii. flow to ensure conservation of fish and stream habitats, and to
continue navigability, as determined by the Minister in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement
to meet the volume of flow requested in the application
British Columbia will approve the application and issue the water
licence. The volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under
this paragraph will not be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow
in the Nisg̱a'a water reservation.
130.
British Columbia will consult with the Nisg̱a'a Nation about all
applications for water licences in respect of streams wholly or
partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands.
131.
If a person other than the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a
Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence and reasonably
requires access across, or an interest in, Nisg̱a'a Lands for the
construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works authorized
under the licence, Nisg̱a'a Government may not unreasonably withhold
consent to, and will take reasonable steps to ensure, that access or the
granting of that interest, if:
a. the licence holder offers fair compensation to the owner of the
estate or interest affected; and
b. the licence holder and the owner of the estate or interest affected
agree on the terms of the access or the interest, including the
location, size, duration, and nature of the interest.
132.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129
and reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, Crown land for
the construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works
authorized under the licence, British Columbia will grant the access or
interest on reasonable terms.
133.
British Columbia or the Nisg̱a'a Nation may refer a dispute arising under
paragraph 131 or 132 to be finally determined by arbitration under the
Dispute Resolution Chapter.
134.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129
and reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, lands set out
in Appendix B-2 for the construction, maintenance, improvement, or
operation of works authorized under the licence, the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or Nisg̱a'a citizen may acquire the
access or interest in accordance with provincial laws of general
application.
135.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may nominate a water bailiff under the
Water Act
for:
a. that portion of the Nass River within Nisg̱a'a Lands; and
b. other streams wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands
and British Columbia will not unreasonably withhold appointment of that
nominee.
136.
Notwithstanding paragraph 128, if British Columbia appoints a water
bailiff nominated by the Nisg̱a'a Nation under paragraph 135, the water
bailiff will be compensated in accordance with provincial laws of
general application.
137.
This Agreement is not intended to grant the Nisg̱a'a Nation any property
in water.
138.
This Agreement does not preclude the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen from selling water in
accordance with federal and provincial laws.
139.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply in accordance with provincial laws of general
application for a water licence in respect of a stream wholly outside
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation
140.
In addition to the Nisg̱a'a water reservation established under paragraph
122, British Columbia will establish a water reservation in favour of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, for 20 years after the effective date, of all of the
unrecorded waters of all streams, other than the Nass River, that are
wholly or partially within Nisg̱a'a Lands (the "Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power
Reservation"), to enable the Nisg̱a'a Nation to investigate the
suitability of those streams for hydro power purposes, including related
storage purposes.
141.
If the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies for a water reservation for hydro power
purposes on a stream subject to the Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation,
British Columbia will, after considering the results of any
investigations referred to in paragraph 140, establish a water
reservation for hydro power purposes and any related storage purposes on
the unrecorded waters of that stream if it considers that stream to be
suitable for hydro power purposes.
142.
If British Columbia establishes a water reservation for a stream under
paragraph 141, the Nisg̱a'a Hydro Power Reservation will terminate in
respect of that stream.
143.
If, after British Columbia establishes a water reservation under
paragraph 141, the Nisg̱a'a Nation applies for a water licence for hydro
power purposes and any related storage purposes for a volume of flow
from the stream subject to that water reservation, British Columbia will
grant the water licence if the proposed hydro power project conforms to
federal and provincial regulatory requirements.
144.
If British Columbia issues a water licence under paragraph 143 for a
stream, the water reservation established under paragraph 141 will
terminate in respect of that stream.
SCHEDULE A — BOUNDARY RESOLUTION
1.
Within a reasonable time after a Party provides the other Parties with a
written proposal to clarify the location of a part of a boundary of
Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement
on whether, how, and at whose cost to undertake the proposed
clarification of boundary location.
2.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the cost as between the Parties of
any field survey undertaken to clarify the location of a part of a
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands will be borne by:
a. the Party authorizing an activity causing the need for clarification
of the boundary location; or
b. the Party proposing clarification of the boundary location, if no
Party has authorized an activity causing the need for clarification of
the boundary location.
3.
If the Parties do not agree on whether, how, or at whose cost to
undertake the proposed boundary clarification, any Party may refer the
matter to be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute
Resolution Chapter.
4.
If the Parties agree to undertake the field survey of a part of a
boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, or if an arbitrator orders the field survey
of a part of a boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Parties will provide
notice to the Surveyor General of British Columbia of the agreement of
the Parties or the order of the arbitrator.
5.
Upon receiving notice under paragraph 4, the Surveyor General will
prepare and submit to the Parties for approval provisional survey
instructions, based on prevailing provincial survey standards, for the
part of the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands.
6.
After the Parties have approved the survey instructions for the part of
the boundary of Nisg̱a'a Lands, the Surveyor General will issue the
approved survey instructions to the British Columbia Land Surveyor
designated by the Party responsible for the costs of the survey or,
where more than one Party is responsible, to the British Columbia Land
Surveyor designated by those Parties. The Party or Parties responsible
for the costs of the survey will be determined in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3.
7.
After the designated British Columbia Land Surveyor has, in accordance
with the approved survey instructions, completed the field survey and
submitted the required survey plans to the Surveyor General and the
Parties, Appendix A will be amended to reflect the survey.
SCHEDULE B — LIST OF SITES
Sites On Nisg̱a'a Lands That Are Not On Former Nisg̱a'a Indian Reserves
Site Name and Use
General Location
Forestry Activities
Lavender Logging Camp
Located in general vicinity of Taylor Creek on Nass Kwinatahl
FSR 7876-04
103P.046
Ksedin Logging Camp
SUP 16189
Northern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 10km from Ginlulak
103P.013
Ginlulak Log Sort and Dump
SUP 9764
On Ishkheenickh Road at 2.5km from Nisg̱a'a Highway turnoff
103P.003
Kwinatahl Camp Sim Gan Logging Camp and Dryland Sort
SUP 19897 and 22417
Near Kwinatahl River on Ksadin to Alice Arm Road
103P.035
Tower Logging Camp
In vicinity of bridge crossing of Ishkheenickh River
103I.093
Monkley Log Dump
In vicinity of northwestern corner of former IR12, Lacktesk
103I.092
Upper and Lower Clark Log Sort and Dump
In vicinity of eastern boundary of former IR9 and Ishkheenickh
Road
RO7816
103P.003
Kinskuch Log Sort and Dump
In vicinity of former IR53, southern shore of Nass River opposite
mouth of Kinskuch River
103P.056
Log Sort and Dump
On eastern side of Nass River where road comes down to river west
of Cassiar
DL3061
103P.025
Omar Island Log Sort
Nass River in vicinity of former
IR29A
103P.014
River Shack Fuelling Area
In vicinity of southwestern corner of former IR29 Zaulzap, near
Nisg̱a'a Highway
103P.014
Water Gauge and Stoney Point General Work Area
On northern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 18km from Ginlulak
103P.014
14k General Work Area
In vicinity of Nisg̱a'a Highway at 14km from Ginlulak
103P.014
Dragon Lake Forestry Camp
In area of campground
103P.036
Sort Yard
On both sides of Nass – Kinskuch FSR near junction with Nass –
Kwinatahl Road
103P.046
Landfills
New Aiyansh Landfill
At end of Dump Road 103P.025
Ksedin Landfill
Southern side of Nisg̱a'a Highway, 12km from Ginlulak
103P.014
Highway Activities
MOTH Gravel Pits
Listed in Schedule A, Roads and Rights of Way Chapter
Sites On Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands That Are Not On Former Nisg̱a'a
Indian Reserves
Site Name and Use
General Location
Echo Cove Logging Camp
Iceberg Bay
103I.091
SCHEDULE C — WATER VOLUMES
Streams Partially Within Nisg̱a'a Lands for Which a Percentage of
Available Water Flow Has Been Specified
Stream Name
Percentage of
Available Flow
B.C.G.S. Map References
Scowban Creek (unofficial name)
50%
103P.001
Ishkheenickh River
26%
103I.062, 103I.063, 103I.072, 103I.073, 103I.074, 103I.082,
103I.083, 103I.084, 103I.092, 103I.093 and 103I.094
Ksemamaith Creek
29%
103P.003, 103P.004, 103P.013 and 103P.014
Kshadin Creek
10%
103P.044, 103P.045, 103P.046, 103P.054 and 103P.055
Tseax River
10%
103I.094, 103I.095, 103I.096, 103P.004, 103P.005, 103P.006,
103P.014, 103P.015, 103P.016, 103P.017, 103P.025 and 103P.026
Kwinatahl River
10%
103P.033, 103P.034, 103P.035, 103P.043, 103P.044 and 103P.045
Tchitin River
10%
103P.044, 103P.045, 103P.046, 103P.054, 103P.055, 103P.056,
103P.064 and 103P.065
Ksedin Creek
12%
103I.084, 103I.085, 103I.093, 103I.094, 103I.095, 103P.003 and
103P.004
Contents
|
Sections 1-70
|
Schedule - Table of Contents
|
Preamble
|
Chapter 1
|
Chapter 2
|
Chapter 3 |
Chapter 4
|
Chapter 5
|
Chapter 6
|
Chapter 7
|
Chapter 8
|
Chapter 9
|
Chapter 10
|
Chapter 11
|
Chapter 12
|
Chapter 13
|
Chapter 14
|
Chapter 15
|
Chapter 16
|
Chapter 17
|
Chapter 18
|
Chapter 19
|
Chapter 20
|
Chapter 21
|
Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
