







B.C. Reg. 174/66

O.C. 2412/66






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act


British Columbia Turkey Marketing Scheme

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]



Part 1



Division 1 — Interpretation





Scheme name




1


This scheme shall be known as the "British Columbia Turkey Marketing
Scheme".

[am. B.C. Reg. 124/74, s. 1.]





Definitions




2


In this Part:


"agency"
means the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency established by the Canadian
Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation issued pursuant to the

Farm Products Agencies Act

(Canada);


"board"
means the British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board;


"quota"
means the number of pounds of turkey meat that a turkey producer is
entitled to market in intraprovincial trade through normal marketing
channels or to have marketed on the turkey producer's behalf by the
board in intraprovincial trade, during a specified period of time;



"quota system"

means a system whereby turkey producers are assigned quotas by the
board thus enabling the board to fix and determine the quantity, if
any, in which turkeys or any variety, class or grade thereof may be
marketed in intraprovincial trade by each turkey producer and by all
turkey producers.


[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]




Division 2 — Quota System





Quota system established




3


The board shall, on the coming into force of this Part, establish by
order or regulation a quota system in order to assign quotas to all
members of classes of producers in the Province in such manner that
the number of pounds of turkey meat produced in the Province and
authorized to be marketed in intraprovincial trade in the year 1973,
when taken together with the number of pounds of turkey meat produced
in the Province and authorized to be marketed in interprovincial and
export trade in the same year, pursuant to quotas assigned by the
agency and the number of pounds of turkey meat produced in the
Province and anticipated to be marketed in the same year, other than
as authorized by a quota assigned by the agency or by the board, will
equal the number of pounds of turkey meat set out in section 4 of this
Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2014, App. s. 12 (a).]





Quantity of turkey meat




4


For the purposes of section 3 of this Part the number of pounds of
turkey meat set out in this section for the Province is the number of
pounds set out in Column 2 of an item of the following table in
respect of the Province as set out in Column 1 of that item.





Column 1




Column 2

Lb.




British Columbia............................
20 500 000



Alberta.........................................

18 250 000


Saskatchewan...............................
8 000 000



Manitoba......................................

17 250 000



Ontario..........................................

92 000 000



Quebec.........................................

54 000 000



Nova Scotia..................................

2 500 000


Unregulated area...........................
1 500 000



[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]





Restriction on aggregate




5

(1)


No order or regulation shall be made where the effect thereof would be
to increase the aggregate of




(a)

the number of pounds of turkey meat produced in the Province and
authorized by quotas assigned by the board and by the agency to be
marketed in intraprovincial, interprovincial and export trade, and




(b)

the number of pounds of turkey meat produced in the Province and
anticipated to be marketed in intraprovincial, interprovincial and
export trade other than as authorized by quotas assigned by the board
and by the agency


to a number that exceeds, on a yearly basis, the number of pounds of
turkey meat set out in section 4 of this Part for the Province
unless the board has taken into account




(c)

the principle of comparative advantage of production in respect of
each province,




(d)

the variation in the size of the market for turkeys,




(e)

any failure by turkey producers in the Province or other provinces to
market the number of pounds of turkey meat authorized to be marketed,




(f)

the feasibility of increased production in each province to be
marketed,




(g)

existing production and storage facilities in each province, and




(h)

the comparative transportation costs to market areas from alternative
sources of production, and the agency is making a similar order or
regulation.




(2)

When the agency has made an order or regulation pursuant to the
provisions of a marketing plan similar to the provisions of subsection
(1) the board shall make a similar order or regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]





Turkeys to be made available to board




6


The board may require each turkey producer to whom a quota is
assigned, as a condition of the assignment thereof, to make available
to the board or its agent all turkeys produced by the turkey producer
and available to be marketed in excess of the quota assigned to the
turkey producer at a price not exceeding the difference, if any,
between the price realized by the board or its agent on the marketing
of such turkeys and its expenses related to such marketing.


[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 8.]






Marketing of turkeys




7

(1)


The board may market turkeys made available to it or its agent on an
individual or collective basis and may pool the receipts from the
marketing thereof and deduct from the pool the expenses incurred by it
or by its agent in marketing such turkeys before any payment is made
to the producers.




(2)

The board shall not market any quantity of the products made available
to it in excess of the number of pounds of turkey meat referred to in
section 3 or 4 or, as modified pursuant to section 5 of this
Part, without prior consultation with the agency.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]





Administration of quota system




8


The board shall, with the concurrence of the agency, administer on its
behalf all orders and regulations made by it for the purpose of
establishing and implementing a quota system or any such orders or
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the Canadian
Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation and similar provisions of this
Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]





Board orders




9


The board shall make, approve and implement any orders or regulations
necessary to reflect any provisions of this Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]



Division 3 — Licences





Licensing procedure




10


The board shall make available to the agency any document or extract
of documents establishing the registration or licensing of producers,
when any such system is in force.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]



Division 4 — Levies





Levies




11


The board shall, with the concurrence of the agency, collect on its
behalf any levies imposed by the agency.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]



Division 5 — Sales Verification





Sales verification




12

(1)


The board shall make orders and regulations requiring producers,
slaughterers, packers, dealers, wholesalers and processors to give all
the information necessary to monitor sales.




(2)

The board shall establish a verification system of sales.




(3)

The board shall provide all information obtained from the
implementation of the system referred to in subsection (2) to the
agency when requested.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]



Division 6 — General





Board cooperation with agency




13


The board shall take all reasonable steps to promote a high degree of
cooperation between itself and the agency and, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, shall




(a)

make available to the agency the records, minutes and decisions of the
board in relation to any matter that is of concern to the agency,




(b)

allow an officer or employee of the agency who is designated by the
agency for such purpose to attend meetings of the board at which any
matter that is of concern to the agency is likely to be discussed and
for such purpose shall give notice of all such meetings to the officer
or employee so designated, and




(c)

give notice of each order or regulation that it proposes to make to
the agency that is likely to be affected in its operations by the
enactment of the order or regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]





Restrictions




14


The authorities and powers referred to in sections 16, 17 and 26 of
the British Columbia Turkey Marketing Scheme are restricted by and
subject to the provisions of this Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 525/74.]



Part 2



Division 1 — Interpretation





Definitions




15


In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires:


"agency"
means a person designated by the board as being a person through which
any of the regulated product shall be processed, packed, stored or
marketed;


"board"
means the British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board;


"breeder"
means any person who raises turkeys for egg production;


"grower"
means any person operating a farm, or farms, for production of turkeys
in the area to which the scheme relates, and includes any person
operating under lease or agreement the terms of which provide that the
returns for the crop are payable to the person operating the farm;


"hatchery"
means any person who hatches turkey eggs;


"marketing"
includes producing, buying, selling, disposing of and offering for
sale or other disposition in any manner by any person;


"person"
includes any partnership, firm or corporation;


"quota"
means any marketing quota issued to a grower by the board;



"regulated product"

means any class of turkey raised for meat or egg production within the
area to which the scheme relates;


"turkey"
means any class of turkey raised or used for meat or egg production;


"vehicle"
includes any motor vehicle, wagon, railway car, ship, boat or other
thing in which the regulated product can be transported.


[en. B.C. Reg. 124/74, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 219/79, s. 2; 175/93, s.
1.]




Division 2 — Purpose and Application





Purpose of scheme




16


The purpose and intent of this scheme is to provide for the effective
promotion, control and regulation, in any and all respects and to the
extent of the authority of the Province, of the production,
transportation, processing, packing, storage and marketing of the
regulated product within the Province, including the prohibition of
such production, transportation, processing, packing, storage and
marketing in whole or in part.

[am. B.C. Reg. 87/79, s. 3.]





Application of scheme




17


The scheme shall apply to all persons who produce, transport, process,
pack, store or market the regulated product and to all kinds and
grades of the regulated product.

[am. B.C. Reg. 87/79, s. 4.]



Division 3 — Name and Constitution of the Board





British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board




18

(1)


The British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board is continued and consists
of a chair appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council and the
members elected under subsection (1.1).




(1.1)

The British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board




(a)

must include 3 members who are registered growers, elected by the
registered growers, and




(b)

may include 1 additional member who is a registered grower, elected by
the registered growers.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 80/2017.]




(3)

The board must establish and publish rules and procedures for the
election of board members.




(4)

The British Columbia Farm Industry Review Board must approve the rules
and procedures referred to in subsection (3) before those rules take
effect.


[en. B.C. Reg. 504/2004, s. (a); am. B.C. Reg. 80/2017.]






Repealed




19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 504/2004, s. (b).]






Annual general meeting




20

(1)


The board shall hold an annual general meeting, at least once in every
year, of the registered growers and give the registered growers at
least 21 days notice of the time and place of that meeting.




(2) and (3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 504/2004, s. (b).]




(4)

The registered growers in attendance at the annual general meeting
shall




(a)

appoint a person as auditor who meets the requirements of section 112
of the

Societies Act

, for the purpose of auditing the books of account and the affairs of
the board, and




(b)

determine the remuneration to be paid from time to time to the chair
and the members of the board.


[en. B.C. Reg. 133/95, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 504/2004, s. (b); 86/2015,
Sch. 3; 211/2015, s. 9; 76/2022, s. 11.]






Repealed




21-22


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 504/2004, s. (b).]






Vacancies on board




23


If a vacancy occurs, the board shall call a special meeting of
registered growers, to be held within 60 days of the date on which the
vacancy occurs, to elect a member for the balance of the unexpired
term.

[en. B.C. Reg. 157/73, s. (5).]





Repealed




24-25


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/95. s. 2.]






Register of Growers




26


The board shall keep at its head office a record (to be known as the
"Register of Growers") of all growers whose names and addresses have
been registered in accordance with orders of the board. Such record
shall be amended from time to time by the addition thereto of the
names and addresses of all growers who are entitled to be registered
and by the deletion therefrom of the names and addresses of growers
who are not entitled to be registered; provided, however, that before
the name of any grower is removed from the said register, the board
shall give the grower 2 weeks notice in writing of the intention to do
so, and the name of such grower shall not be removed as aforesaid if
the grower shall, within the said period, give to the board sufficient
reason for the retention of the grower's name on the said register.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 6 to 8.]





Irregularities in election




27


In the event of any delay or irregularity occurring in the conduct of
any election or any doubt arising as to the validity of any election,
the British Columbia Farm Industry Review Board shall have authority
to determine who are the members of the office, and to extend the time
for making nominations, or direct that a special election be held at
any time.

[am. B.C. Reg. 350/2003, s. (c).]



Division 4 — Authority of the Board





Powers of board




28


The board shall have authority within the Province to promote,
regulate and control in any and all respects, to the extent of the
powers of the Province, the production, transportation, processing,
packing, storing and marketing, or any of them, of the regulated
product, including the prohibition of such production, transportation,
processing, packing, storing and marketing, or any of them, in whole
or in part, and shall have all authority necessary or useful in the
exercise of the authorities hereinbefore or hereinafter enumerated,
and without the generality thereof shall have the following authority:




(a)

to regulate the time and place at which, and to designate the agency
through which, any regulated product shall be produced, processed,
packed, stored or marketed; to determine the manner of distribution,
the quality, grade, or class of the regulated product that shall be
transported, produced, processed, packed, stored or marketed by any
person at any time; to prohibit the production, transportation,
processing, packing, storage or marketing of any grade, quality or
class of any regulated product; and to determine the charges that may
be made for its services by any designated agency;




(b)

to issue quotas to growers as is deemed necessary; such quotas shall
at all times remain the property of the board and shall have no
monetary value;




(c)

to revoke in whole or in part unused quotas or portions of quotas and
to reissue such quotas in whole or in part, equitably, to other
growers;




(d)

to exempt from any determination or order any person or class of
persons engaged in the production, transportation, production,
processing, packing, storing or marketing of the regulated product or
any class, variety or grade thereof;




(e)

to require any or all persons engaged in the production,
transportation, processing, packing, storing or marketing of the
regulated product to register with and obtain licences from the board;




(f)

to fix and collect yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly licence
fees from any or all persons producing, transporting, processing,
packing, storing or marketing the regulated product, and for this
purpose to classify such persons into groups and fix licence fees
payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts,
to fix and collect from such persons fees for services rendered or to
be rendered by the board, and to recover such licence and other fees
by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction;




(g)

to cancel any licence for violation of any provision of the scheme or
of any order of the board or of the regulations;




(h)

to require full information relating to the production,
transportation, processing, packing, storing and marketing of the
regulated product from all persons engaged therein, and to require
periodic returns to be made by such persons, and to inspect the books
and premises of such persons;




(i)

to fix the price or prices at which the regulated product or any grade
or class thereof may be bought or sold by or to any person;




(j)

to authorize any marketing agency appointed by the board under the
scheme to conduct a pool or pools for the distribution of all proceeds
received from the sale of the regulated product, and requiring any
such marketing agency to distribute the proceeds of sale, after
deducting all necessary and proper disbursements, expenses and
charges, in such manner that each person receives a share of the total
proceeds in relation to the amount, variety, size, grade and class of
the regulated product delivered by that person, and to make payments
in respect thereof until the total net proceeds are distributed;




(k)

to require the person in charge of any vehicle in which the regulated
product could be transported to permit any member or employee of the
board to search the vehicle;




(l)

to seize and dispose of any of the regulated product kept,
transported, processed, packed, stored or marketed in violation of any
order of the board;




(m)

to use any moneys received by the board in carrying out the purposes
of the scheme, and in paying the expenses of the board, and in paying
to the British Columbia Turkey Association any portion or all of the
expenses incurred by the said association with the authority of the
board in carrying out the purposes of the scheme;




(n)

to make such orders, rules and regulations as are deemed by the board
necessary or advisable to promote, control and regulate effectively
the production, transportation, processing, packing, storage or
marketing of the regulated product and to amend or revoke the same;




(o)

to refuse to issue any licence to any person who previously held a
licence which was cancelled by the board, and to any person who was
associated with any person who previously held a licence which was
cancelled by the board, and to any person who has, within 6 months of
the date of the person's application for a licence, committed any act
which would be an act of bankruptcy under the

Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act

(Canada), and to any person who fails to satisfy the board that the
person has the production, transportation, processing, packing,
storing and marketing facilities deemed by the board necessary to
properly protect the interests of the growers;




(p)

to promote the turkey industry by advertising in such manner as may
seem advisable, and by compiling, publishing, distributing and
furnishing information with respect thereto;




(q)

to delegate its power to such extent and in such manner as the board
may from time to time deem necessary or advisable for the proper
operation of the scheme; provided that this paragraph shall not permit
the delegation by the board of the authorities contained in paragraphs
(e), (f), (g) and (o) of this section;




(r)

to exercise any authority or function conferred upon it under the

Agricultural Products Marketing Act

(Canada) or under the

Farm Products Agencies Act

(Canada) or by the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency established
pursuant to the

Farm Products Agencies Act

(Canada);




(s)

to cooperate with the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency to bring about
parallel coordination of this scheme and the Federal Marketing Plan
established by the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency;




(t)

the powers set out in section 11 (1) (o) (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) and
(v) of the

Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act

.


[am. B.C. Regs. 525/74, s. 14; 87/79, ss. 3, 5; 175/93, s. 2;
184/2002; 112/2014, App. s. 12 (b); 76/2022, ss. 3, 4 and 8.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 330, ss. 5, 11 and 22.]



