View Complete Statute
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39
Schedule
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement
CHAPTER 12
NATIONAL PARKS AND NATIONAL MARINE
CONSERVATION AREAS
GENERAL
1. Tsawwassen First Nation has the right to harvest Renewable Resources
for Domestic Purposes:
a. in National Parks that are wholly or partly within Tsawwassen
Territory; and
b. in National Marine Conservation Areas that are wholly or partly
within Tsawwassen Territory, if any are established,
in accordance with this Agreement.
2. Harvesting of Intertidal Bivalves under the Tsawwassen Fishing Right
in areas where the Tsawwassen Intertidal Bivalve Fishing Area overlaps
with a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area will be
conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions for harvesting in
National Parks and National Marine Conservation Areas in this chapter,
as if Intertidal Bivalves were included in the definition of Renewable
Resources.
3. The Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources is limited by
measures necessary for conservation, public health or public safety.
4. The Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources is held by
Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen First Nation may not Dispose of
that right.
5. Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen Members have the right to
Trade and Barter Renewable Resources harvested under the Tsawwassen
Right to Harvest Renewable Resources, among themselves or with other
aboriginal people of Canada resident in British Columbia.
6. For ceremonial purposes, Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen
Members may exchange regalia or traditional or artistic objects, made
from Renewable Resources harvested in accordance with this chapter,
among themselves or with other Coast Salish people.
7. The transport and export by Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen
Members of Renewable Resources harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Renewable Resources are subject to Federal and Provincial Law.
8. The Minister retains authority for the management, administration and
control of National Parks and National Marine Conservation Areas, and
any other protected areas that are owned by Canada and administered by
the Parks Canada Agency, and will exercise that authority in a manner
that is consistent with this Agreement.
9. Neither Canada nor British Columbia will require a Tsawwassen Member
to have a licence or to pay a fee or royalty for harvesting Renewable
Resources under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
10. Canada will not charge a fee for a Tsawwassen Member to enter or
gain access to a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area to
harvest under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources, but
may charge for the use of visitor facilities or other services for which
fees are normally charged.
11. Nothing in this Agreement affects the application of Federal or
Provincial Law in respect of the possession, use or regulation of
firearms.
12. This Agreement does not alter Federal or Provincial Law in respect
of property in Renewable Resources.
13. This Agreement does not preclude Tsawwassen Members from gathering
Plants on federal Crown lands other than federal protected areas,
subject to Federal and Provincial Law.
POWER TO MAKE LAWS
14. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:
a. the designation of Tsawwassen Members to harvest Renewable Resources
under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources; and
b. the distribution among Tsawwassen Members of Renewable Resources
harvested under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
15. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 14 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.
16. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the documentation
of Tsawwassen Members who have been designated to harvest under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
17. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 16.
DOCUMENTATION
18. Tsawwassen First Nation will issue documentation to identify
individuals who are authorized to harvest under the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Renewable Resources.
19. When harvesting under the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable
Resources, an individual is required to produce, at the request of a
person authorized to enforce Federal Law, Provincial Law or Tsawwassen
Law in respect of Renewable Resources, the documentation referred to in
clause 18.
20. Documentation issued under clause 18 will:
a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative, and, at
the discretion of Tsawwassen First Nation, in the Hun'qum'i'num
language;
b. include the name and address of the individual; and
c. meet any requirements set out in a Renewable Resource Harvesting
Document.
RENEWABLE RESOURCE HARVESTING
21. Each year, or as otherwise agreed, Canada and Tsawwassen First
Nation will meet to develop terms and conditions for harvesting under
the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources and will make
reasonable efforts to reach consensus using a collaborative process.
22. In developing the terms and conditions referred to in clause 21,
Canada and Tsawwassen First Nation will take into account:
a. the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources;
b. the preferences of Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of the
quantity, methods, timing and locations for harvesting;
c. the requirements for conservation and ecological integrity and the
availability of the Renewable Resources to which the terms and
conditions would apply;
d. the use of the relevant National Park or National Marine Conservation
Area for the benefit and enjoyment of all Canadians;
e. other authorized uses of the National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area;
f. requirements for the management of the National Park or National
Marine Conservation Area;
g. opportunities for similar harvesting activities outside of National
Parks and National Marine Conservation Areas, as provided for in other
chapters of this Agreement;
h. other harvests of Renewable Resources for food, social or ceremonial
purposes; and
i. any other matter that Canada or Tsawwassen First Nation considers
relevant.
23. Subject to clause 24, after receiving and considering any terms and
conditions developed under clause 21, the Minister will, in a timely
way, issue a Renewable Resource Harvest Document to Tsawwassen First
Nation that sets out the terms and conditions for harvesting under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
24. Where Canada and Tsawwassen First Nation do not agree on terms and
conditions under clause 21, the Minister may take the action, including
issuing a Renewable Resource Harvesting Document, that the Minister
considers necessary.
25. The Minister may issue or amend a Renewable Resource Harvesting
Document:
a. at the request of Tsawwassen First Nation; or
b. in order to respond to exceptional circumstances where it is not
practicable to engage in the process referred to in clause 21.
26. Where the Minister takes action under clause 24 or 25, the Minister
will advise Tsawwassen First Nation as soon as practicable of the action
taken and the reasons for it.
27. Tsawwassen First Nation will exercise the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Renewable Resources in accordance with:
a. the applicable Tsawwassen Renewable Resource Harvesting Document; and
b. the management plan for the relevant National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area.
28. Tsawwassen First Nation will provide to the Minister, on request,
information in respect of harvesting by Tsawwassen Members under the
Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
29. Canada will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of any
proposed new legislation or regulation, or amendment thereto, for
harvesting of Renewable Resources in any National Park or National
Marine Conservation Area that is wholly or partly within Tsawwassen
Territory to the extent that the new legislation or regulation, or
amendment thereto, may reasonably be expected to affect the Tsawwassen
Right to Harvest Renewable Resources.
30. After Consultation with Tsawwassen First Nation, the Minister may
close to harvesting an area in a National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area, for as long as necessary, for purposes of park or
marine conservation area management including ecosystem research,
protection of representative ecosystems and protection of species or
habitats.
CONSERVATION MEASURES
31. Canada will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of:
a. the need for additional conservation measures within the relevant
National Park or National Marine Conservation Area in Tsawwassen
Territory during the term of a Renewable Resource Harvesting Document;
and
b. the development and implementation of such additional conservation
measures where the Minister decides that the measures are necessary.
32. After the Consultation referred to in clause 31, the Minister may
amend a Renewable Resource Harvesting Document to the extent required to
bring into effect the conservation measures referred to in clause 31.
PARK ESTABLISHMENT AND BOUNDARY CHANGES
33. Canada will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation before establishing
or changing the boundaries of any National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area that is wholly or partly within Tsawwassen Territory.
CO-OPERATION IN PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
34. In respect of a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area
that is wholly or partly within Tsawwassen Territory, Canada will
Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation on:
a. the role of Tsawwassen First Nation in interim planning and
management planning;
b. the role of Tsawwassen First Nation in the research and protection of
Cultural Heritage Sites of significance to Tsawwassen First Nation;
c. the role of Tsawwassen First Nation in the identification,
protection, interpretation and presentation of Tsawwassen Artifacts and
heritage where applicable, including the use of the Hun'qum'i'num
language in signage and interpretation; and
d. the traditional ecological knowledge of Tsawwassen First Nation being
considered in the natural history and management of any National Park or
National Marine Conservation Area.
35. At the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, Canada and Tsawwassen
First Nation will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on
arrangements for Tsawwassen First Nation to provide advice on matters
affecting Tsawwassen First Nation in any National Park or National
Marine Conservation Area that is wholly or partly within Tsawwassen
Territory.
36. An agreement referred to in clause 35 will take the place of any
Consultation referred to in clause 34.
37. An agreement referred to in clause 35 may provide for the following:
a. representation in an advisory process;
b. procedures for an advisory process, including a consensual approach
and a dispute resolution process;
c. procedures for cooperation on appropriate cultural activities and the
management of Renewable Resource Harvesting;
d. identification of the interests of Tsawwassen Members in economic,
employment or training opportunities in or associated with any National
Park or National Marine Conservation Area; and
e. any other matters as agreed by Canada and Tsawwassen First Nation.
38. In respect of a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area
that is wholly or partly within Tsawwassen Territory, Tsawwassen First
Nation will make reasonable efforts to cooperate with others who harvest
Renewable Resources for food, social or ceremonial purposes.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 21
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12 |
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Appendices - Contents
|
Appendices - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
