View Complete Regulation
B.C. Reg. 76/84
O.C. 518/84
Deposited March 19, 1984
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Wildlife Act
Closed Areas Regulation
[Last amended July 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 157/2022]
Schedule 5
No Shooting Areas
(Section 6)
Repealed
1
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 13.]
University of British Columbia Endowment Lands
2
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Vancouver, NWD, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
All lands within District Lot 140, Group 1, NWD (except thereout Lots
3044, 4804, 4805 and 6494, Group, NWD, and except thereout those
portions within the City of Vancouver). The above description includes
Lots 3045, 4806, 4807 and 7184, Group, NWD, formerly portions of said
Lot 140.
Ganges
3
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Ganges Harbour,
Cowichan District, except organized territory, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:
All of that area known as Ganges Harbour below the high water mark
lying north of a straight line running from Scott Point due West to
the nearest point on the west shoreline of said harbour.
McQueen, Griffin and Isobel Lakes
4
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 3-28 in the
vicinity of the City of Kamloops, KDYD, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
All land and waters within 1 km of the mean high water mark of
McQueen, Griffin and Isobel Lakes.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 9.]
Buntzen Lake
5
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in New Westminster
District which is contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 226, Group 1, NWD, being a
point on the high water mark of the waters of Port Moody, on the
northerly shore thereof; thence northerly along the westerly boundary
of said Lot 226 to the northwest corner thereof; thence easterly along
the northerly boundaries of Lots 226 and 227 to the northeast corner
of said Lot 227; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of said
Lot 227 to the northerly boundary of Lot 350; thence easterly along
said northerly boundary of Lot 350 to the northeast corner thereof;
thence easterly, northerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly
and northerly boundaries of Lot 348 to the northeast corner thereof;
thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of Sections 16, 21, 28
and 33, Township 39, WCM, to the northeast corner of said Section 33;
and from the northeast corner of said Section 33 in a straight line to
the northeast corner of the District Municipality of North Vancouver;
thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along the middle
lines of Indian Arm, Burrard Inlet, and the waters of Port Moody to a
point 365 m (1 200 feet) due North of the intersection of the
centreline of North Road with the high water mark of the waters of
Port Moody, on the southerly shore thereof; thence due East to a point
due South of the aforesaid southwest corner of Lot 226; thence North
to said southeast corner of Lot 226, being point of commencement,
except thereout any lands which may lie within the corporate limits of
any city, town, village or district municipality or any lands which
may be hereinafter incorporated therein.
Skookumchuck Pulp Mill
6
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Kootenay District
which is contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the Skookumchuck Kootenay River bridge on Highway 95;
thence southerly along Highway 95 to the junction of a roadway named
Farstad Way; thence westerly and northerly along Farstad Way to
Skookumchuck River road; thence northerly along said road to the
Skookumchuck River bridge; thence downstream along the Skookumchuck
River to its confluence with the Kootenay River; thence downstream
along the Kootenay River high water mark to point of commencement.
Englishman River
7
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of Parksville, Nanoose Land District, which is contained
within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 1, Nanoose Land District,
being a point on the high water mark on the Strait of Georgia; thence
southerly along the easterly boundaries of Lots 1, 96 and 129 to the
point of intersection, on the easterly boundary of said Lot 129, with
the centreline of Island Highway 19, Registered Plan 812 R/W; thence
in a generally westerly direction along said centreline to the point
of intersection with the centreline of the Englishman River; thence in
a generally northerly direction along the centreline of the main
channel of said Englishman River to a point due West of the most
westerly part of Lot 9, Plan 19158, Lot 181; thence due East to a
point on the high water mark of the Strait of Georgia, being the
westerly extremity of said Lot 9, Plan 19158; thence in a generally
easterly direction along the high water mark of the Strait of Georgia,
being the northerly boundary of Lot 181 (all lots herein above
mentioned, beginning with Lot 1, being in the Nanoose District) to the
northeast corner of Lot 1, Nanoose District, being point of
commencement.
Todagin Mountain
8
That portion of the Province of British Columbia on the Klastine
Plateau, Cassiar District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the junction of Stewart-Cassiar Highway and Coyote
Creek; thence easterly along the north bank of Coyote Creek to Ealue
Lake; thence along the north side of Ealue Lake to its most northerly
point; thence in an easterly direction to Klappan River; thence in a
southerly direction along the east bank of Klappan River to Tsanadto
Creek; thence in a southwesterly direction to Kluea Lake; thence
southwesterly along the south side of Kluea Lake and connecting creek
to Todagin Lake; thence along the south side of Todagin Lake to
Todagin Creek; thence west along the south bank of Todagin Creek to
the intersection with Stewart-Cassiar Highway; thence north along
Stewart-Cassiar Highway to point of commencement.
Logan Lake
9
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Logan Lake, KDYD, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:
Those waters of Logan Lake to the maximum high water mark.
Repealed
10
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (a).]
Bowen Island
11
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Howe Sound, NWD,
which is contained within the following described boundaries:
All that portion of land, including the foreshore above the low water
mark of Bowen Island, situate and lying at the entrance of Howe Sound,
NWD.
Repealed
12
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 95/2015, App. 3, s. 2.]
Repealed
13
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 6.]
Gibralter Mines
14
Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 9170, Cariboo District;
thence north to the northeast corner of said Lot 9170; thence west to
the northwest corner of said Lot 9170; thence northerly to the
northeast corner of Lot 9497; thence west to the northwest corner of
said Lot 9497; thence northwesterly to the southwest corner of Lot
6166; thence east to the southeast corner of said Lot 6166; thence
north to the northeast corner of said Lot 6166; thence east 7.6 km
(4.7 miles); thence south 8.7 km (5.4 miles); thence west 2.0 km (1.2
miles); thence south 3.5 km (2.2 miles); thence west to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 221/2005, s. 3 (b).]
Williams Lake
15
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Town of Williams Lake, Cariboo District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:
Those waters of Williams Lake to the maximum high water mark between
the eastern Williams Lake town boundary and the western boundary of
Indian Reserve 1 (Sugarcane).
Provincial Gaol Camp No. 1
16
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Chilliwack
River Valley, Yale District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the point 1.6 km (1 mile) west of the Provincial Gaol
Service Camp No. 1 and extending for a distance of 800 m (0.5
mile) north and south of Chilliwack River Road East to Chilliwack
Lake, Yale District. The western boundary is indicated by signs
erected by the Ministry of the Attorney General.
Ocean Falls
17
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Range 3, Coast
District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 1153, Range 3, Coast
District; thence northerly along said lot to the south shore of Ikt
Lake; thence northwesterly along the said shore of said lake to
unnamed river entering Ikt Lake at its most northerly point; thence
northerly and northwesterly up the west bank of unnamed river to the
northwest corner of Lot 209; thence due East of the northeast corner
of said lot; thence due East for 3.2 km (2 miles) to the height of
land between the Martin River drainage and Link Lake; thence
southerly, easterly and southerly following the height of land through
Mount Caro Marion to the west shore of Link Lake, approximately 400 m
(0.25 mile) from the northeast corner of Lot 1170; thence in a
southerly direction, including unnamed bay to the southeast corner of
Lot 1151; thence westerly in a straight line to the southwest corner
of Lot 1176; thence westerly in a straight line across Cousins Inlet
to point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 5.]
Kumdis Bay
18
That portion of M.U. 6-13 on the east side of Masset Inlet, Queen
Charlotte District, contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the southern shore of Kumdis Bay and
the eastern boundary of Lot 414; thence in a southerly direction to
the southeast corner of Lot 414; thence westerly along the southern
boundary of Lot 414 to the eastern boundary of Lot 746; thence
proceeding south along the eastern boundary of Lot 746 to the southern
boundary of Lot 746; thence proceeding west along the southern
boundary of Lot 746 to the eastern boundary of block B of Lot 747;
thence proceeding south along the eastern boundary of block B to the
southern boundary of block B; thence proceeding west along the
southern boundary of block B to the western boundary of block B;
thence proceeding south along the eastern boundary of Lot 3040 to the
southern boundary of Lot 3040; thence proceeding due West to the high
water mark of Masset Inlet; thence proceeding in a northwesterly
direction, perpendicular to the shoreline for a distance of 1 km;
thence proceeding northeasterly, remaining 1 km from the high water
mark of Masset Inlet, parallel to the shoreline to a point due North
of the most northerly point of Lot 420; thence due South to the most
northerly point of Lot 420; thence due West 100 metres; thence
proceeding southeasterly, remaining 100 metres west of the high water
mark of Kumdis Bay, to the intersection with Highway 16 in Lot 414;
thence easterly along Highway 16, to the east end of the bridge that
crosses Kumdis Creek, to a point at the mean high water mark, on the
east shore of Kumdis Creek; thence following the mean high water mark
of Kumdis Creek and Kumdis Bay northeasterly to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 5 (a).]
Kathlyn Lake
19
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Kathlyn Lake, Range 5, Coast District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Those waters of Kathlyn Lake to the maximum high water mark situate
and lying within portions of Lots 10, 11, 14 and 15 of Township 1A,
Range 5, Coast District.
Charlie Lake
20
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Charlie Lake, Peace River District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Namely, the waters of Charlie Lake and that portion of Stoddard Creek
between Charlie Lake and Road 114 and all lands within 91 m (100
yards) of the mean high water level of said lake and creek.
Cowichan Bay
21
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-04 in the
vicinity of Cowichan Bay, Cowichan District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:
Commencing on the northern edge of the right of way of Cowichan Bay
Road opposite the southeastern point of Lot 9, Section 8, Range 3,
Plan 8313, Cowichan Bay; thence northwesterly along the northern edge
of said right of way to a point opposite the northwest corner of Lot
2, Section 8, Range 2, Plan 12543; thence directly north to the low
water level mark on the northern shore of the southernmost channel of
the Koksilah River; thence easterly along the northern shore of said
channel to the southeasternmost point of Lot 1, section 9, Range 3,
Plan 1725; thence southeasterly in an arc that passes between Lots 19A
and 19B (commonly known as Widgeon island), to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (b).]
Repealed
22
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 3.]
Nanaimo
23
Those 2 portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity
of the City of Nanaimo, Nanaimo Mountain and Cranberry Districts,
which are contained within the following described boundaries:
(1)
Commencing at the intersection of Dumont Road and the Nanaimo City
boundary near Brannen Lake: southerly along the east side of Dumont
Road to the B.C. Hydro Transmission Line RW763; then southeasterly
along the East side of said right of way to its intersection with the
Nanaimo City boundary near the junction of Jingle Pot and East
Wellington roads; thence easterly and northerly along the City
boundary to the point of commencement.
(2)
Commencing at the intersection of the Nanaimo City boundary, the B.C.
Hydro Transmission Line RW763, and Harewood Mines Road; thence
easterly and southerly along the Nanaimo City boundary to its
intersection with said transmission line RW; thence northwesterly
along the east side of the transmission line RW to the point of
commencement.
Repealed
24
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 4.]
Repealed
25
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (a).]
Repealed
26
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 14.]
Cherry Point
27
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Satellite Channel, Shawnigan District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at Cherry Point, Satellite Channel; thence southerly and
southeasterly following the high water mark to Hatch Point; thence in
a northwesterly direction in a straight line from Hatch Point to
Cherry Point, being point of commencement.
Highways
28
(1) to (4)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]
(5)
Those portions of the Province of British Columbia within 50 m of the
travelled portion of the following described highways:
(a) to (c)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]
(d)
the Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road from its junction with the
Weaver Creek Road to the second bridge across Sakwi Creek.
(6)
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within 150 m of the
travelled portion of the Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road north of
the second bridge across Sakwi Creek.
(7)
Those portions of the Province of British Columbia
(a)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 3.]
(b)
within 0.4 km west of the centerline and 1.0 km east of the centerline
of Highway 99 between the northern boundary of the District
Municipality of West Vancouver and the southern boundary of the
District Municipality of Squamish, and
(c)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]
(d)
within 0.4 km of the centerline of Highway 113 between Terrace and
Kincolith (Gingolx).
(8)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]
(9)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (a).]
(10)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 7.]
(11)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (b).]
[am. B.C. Regs. 204/85, s. 2 (1); 172/86, s. 2; 162/87, s. 15; 325/87,
s. 1; 167/88, s. 3; 309/88, s. 1; 176/89, s. 3; 185/90, ss. 4 to 7;
459/90, s. 2; 204/91, s. 5; 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 1; 211/93, s. 7;
190/96, s. 5 (a); 235/97, s. 3 (b); 151/2006, s. 4 (a); 175/2010, App.
1, s. 2.]
Paaren's Beach
29
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of Fort St. James, Range 5, Coast District, which is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 314, Range 5, Coast
District; thence easterly and southerly along the boundary of said lot
to its southeast corner; thence westerly along the south boundaries of
Lots 314, 549, 550, 1665, 1644 and 1643 to its southwest corner;
thence to a point northerly 594 metres (1 980 feet) along the west
boundary of Lot 1643; thence in a straight line due West to the west
boundary of Lot 1643A; thence northerly along the western boundary of
said lot to the low water mark of Stuart Lake; thence in an easterly
direction following said low water mark to point of commencement.
[am. B.C. Reg. 189/84, s. 2.]
Repealed
30
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 16.]
Blind Bay
31
That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Village of Chase,
KDYD, which is contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the mean high water mark at Reedman Point on Shuswap
Lake; thence southwesterly to the intersection of the westerly
boundary of Section 24, Township 22, Range 11, W6M, and Shuswap Lake;
thence due South to the Sorrento-Eagle Bay Road; thence easterly,
southerly and northerly along said road to the south boundary of
Section 30, Township 22, Range 10, W6M; thence northwesterly along the
Sorrento-Eagle Bay Road for 500 m; thence westerly to the point of
commencement.
Sooke and Metchosin
32
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the South Saanich,
Malahat, Goldstream, Otter Point, Sooke, Metchosin and Esquimalt
Districts which is contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the high water mark at the extremity of Sluggett Point;
thence southerly in a straight line to the low water mark at the
extremity of Willis Point; thence southerly, westerly and southerly
along the low water mark of Saanich Inlet to the point of intersection
with the northern boundary of Goldstream Provincial Park; thence
westerly along said northern boundary to the point of intersection
with the western boundary of the right of way of the Esquimalt and
Nanaimo Railway; thence southerly along said western boundary to the
point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of way of
the B.C. Hydro powerline; thence southerly and westerly along the
western and northern boundaries of said right of way to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
Canadian National Railway, at the Cooper's Cove crossing; thence
westerly and northwesterly along said railway right of way boundary to
the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Todd Creek, on
the southern bank thereof; thence in a general westerly direction
along the said natural boundary to the point of intersection with the
western natural boundary of Sooke River; thence in a general southerly
direction along said western natural boundary to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of the right of way of the
B.C. Hydro powerline; thence westerly along said right of way boundary
to the point of intersection with Young Lake Road, then generally
North and perpendicular to said right of way for a distance of 800
metres, then generally West paralleling said right of way to the point
of intersection with the east bank of Tugwell Creek, then generally
South following the east bank of Tugwell Creek to the intersection
with the north boundary of the right of way of said powerline, then
generally westerly along said right of way to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of the Jordan River, thence in
a generally northerly direction along the east bank of Jordan River to
the confluence of Sinn Fein Creek, thence in a generally northerly and
westerly direction following Sinn Fein Creek to the crossing of Jordan
River main; thence in a generally southerly and westerly direction
following the north boundary of Jordan River main to the intersection
with North main; thence following North main 100 metres north to 48°
44' north latitude, 124° 06' west longitude; thence in a southerly
direction following North main 100 metres from the western shoulder to
the intersection with Uglow Creek; thence in a southerly direction
following Uglow Creek to the intersection of Highway 14; thence
in a general southerly direction along said natural boundary to the
northern boundary of the right of way of Highway 14; thence in a
general westerly direction along the northern boundary of Highway 14
to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of
way of that secondary road leading from Port Renfrew to Botanical
Beach Provincial Park; thence in a general southwesterly direction
along the western boundary of said secondary road to the point of
intersection with the northern boundary of said Provincial Park;
thence easterly and southerly along the northern and eastern
boundaries of said Provincial Park to the point of intersection with
the high water mark of Juan de Fuca Strait, on the northern shore
thereof; thence in a general southeasterly direction to the point of
intersection with the high water mark at Orveas Bay; thence due South
from the said intersection to a point in Juan de Fuca Strait 300
metres from the high water mark; thence in a general easterly
direction 300 metres out from the high water mark and parallel to the
shoreline to a point 300 metres south of the high water mark at the
extremity of Parsons Point; thence easterly in a straight line to a
point 300 metres distant from the western high water mark of Simpson
Point, at the extremity thereof; thence along a line 300 metres
distant from and parallel to the high water mark in a general easterly
and northerly direction to a point due East of the extremity of Cape
Calver; thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point 300 metres
due East of the high water mark of William Head, at the extremity
thereof; thence along a line 300 metres distant from and parallel to
the high water mark in a general westerly, northerly and easterly
direction to a point due East of Fisgard Island; thence northeasterly
in a straight line to the point of intersection with the projection of
the boundary of the Township of Esquimalt, southeast of Ashe Head;
thence northeasterly along said boundary to the point of intersection
with the southern boundary of the District of Saanich; thence westerly
and northerly along the southern and western boundaries of the
District of Saanich to the point of intersection with the southern
natural boundary of Tod Creek; thence in a general northwesterly
direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection
with the high water mark of Tod Inlet; thence in a general northerly
direction along the high water mark of Tod Inlet and Brentwood Bay to
the point of commencement, except those parts of M.U.s 1-1 and 1-2
that are wholly contained and legally defined within the corporate
limits of the Corporations of the Districts of Highlands, Sooke and
Metchosin, the City of Colwood, Langford Municipality, and the Town of
View Royal.
[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (a); am. B.C. Regs. 225/98, s. 4 (a);
170/2001, s. 3; 189/2002, s. 1 (a); 163/2008, App. 1; 130/2016, App.
1, s. 3.]
Elbow Lake
33
That portion of the Province of British Columbia, being all the area
0.8 km (1/2 mile) on either side of the centreline of the portion of
the Canadian Forest Products Chehalis Main Road, in the vicinity of
Elbow Lake, NWD, which is contained within the following boundaries:
The Canadian Forest Products Chehalis Main Road commencing at the
point due West of the most northerly portion of Elbow Lake; thence
northerly for a distance of 2.4 km (1.5 miles).
Rose Lake
34
That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Town of Williams
Lake, Cariboo Land District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Those waters of Rose Lake to the maximum high water mark.
Mayo Lake
35
That portion of the Province in the vicinity of the Corporation of the
City of Duncan, Quamichan Land District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
All that area bounded on the south by the southern boundary of Block
32, Cowichan Lake Land District; on the west by the Mayo Lake Road; on
the north by the E. & N. Railway right of way; and on the east by
the Skutz Falls Road.
Repealed
36
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 17.]
Red Rock Seed Orchard
37
That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
the City of Prince George, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
All lands and waters within Lots 1607, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020,
2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026, Cariboo Land District.
[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 8.]
Wells
38
That portion of the Province of British Columbia, in the vicinity of
Wells, Cariboo Land District, which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 131, Cariboo Land District;
thence due South to the southeast corner of Lot 11062, Cariboo Land
District; thence southwesterly to the most southern portion of Lot
7795, Cariboo Land District; thence in a generally westerly direction
along the southern boundary, and the extension thereof, of Lot 7795,
Cariboo Land District, to the mean high water mark of the easterly
shore of Jack of Clubs Lake; thence southwesterly along the shore of
said lake to the most southerly portion thereof; thence in a
northwesterly direction to the intersection of Jack of Clubs Creek
Road and Highway 26; thence in a northeasterly direction along said
highway to a point due South of the western boundary of Lot 289,
Cariboo Land District; thence due North to a point due West of the
northwest corner of Lot 131, Cariboo Land District; thence due East to
the point of commencement.
Repealed
39-40
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (b).]
Line Creek Operations
41
That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-41/18.
[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (b).]
Repealed
42
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 194/99, s. 5 (b).]
Repealed
43
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 10.]
Link Island
44
That portion of M.U. 1-1 in the Strait of Georgia which is contained
within the following described boundary:
The mean low water mark of Link Island.
Lakelse Lake
45
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Lakelse Lake, Range 5, Coast District within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the mouth of Schulbuckhand Creek; thence northerly along
the east shore of Lakelse Lake to the mouth of Williams Creek; thence
easterly along the north bank of Williams Creek to Highway 37; thence
southerly along Highway 37 to Schulbuckhand Creek; thence westerly
along the north bank of Schulbuckhand Creek to the point of
commencement.
[am. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s.18.]
Queen Charlotte City
46
That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Haida Gwaii
described as:
Queen Charlotte City District Lots 15, 15A, 16, 16A, 18 and 3.
[am. B.C. Reg. 251/2010, Sch. s. 1.]
Sandspit
47
That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Haida Gwaii
described as:
Sandspit District Lots 159, 159A, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166,
307, 2143, 2144, 2145 and 1317.
[am. B.C. Reg. 251/2010, Sch. s. 1.]
Naramata
48
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Naramata within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the mouth of Trust Creek and proceeding upstream along
the northern natural boundary of Trust Creek to its intersection with
Chute Lake Road; thence proceeding southerly along the eastern edge of
the travelled portion of Chute Lake Road to Naramata Road; thence
proceeding southerly along the eastern edge of the travelled portion
of Naramata Road to its intersection with Old Main Road; thence
proceeding westerly along the southern edge of the travelled portion
of Old Main Road to Arawana Creek; thence proceeding downstream along
the southern natural boundary of Arawana Creek to Okanagan Lake;
thence proceeding southwesterly in a straight line at right angles to
the shore of Okanagan Lake at Arawana Creek for a distance of 100 m;
thence proceeding northerly parallel to and 100 m distant from the
eastern natural boundary of Okanagan Lake to a point 100 m west of the
mouth of Trust Creek; thence proceeding east in a straight line to the
point of commencement.
Huntingdon and Sumas Mountain
49
That portion of the Province of British Columbia described as:
Electoral Area H of the Fraser Valley Regional District.
[am. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (b).]
Repealed
50-52
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (c).]
Hope
53
Those two portions of the Province of British Columbia within M.U.s
2-2 and 2-17 in the vicinity of the Town of Hope within the following
described boundaries:
(1)
Commencing at the intersection of the Coquihalla Highway and the
easternmost boundary of the Town of Hope west of Thacker Creek; thence
northerly, westerly and northerly along the easterly boundary of the
Town of Hope to its intersection with the southwest corner of the
Aywawwis #15 Indian Reserve; thence easterly and northerly along the
southerly and easterly boundary of the reserve to a private logging
company road; thence southeasterly along the northern boundary of the
road to its intersection with Othello Road; thence in an easterly
direction to the pipeline pumping station; thence westerly along the
gas pipeline right of way to its intersection with the old Kettle
Valley Railway right of way; thence southeasterly along the northern
edge of the right of way to the point of its intersection with a line
due North from the mouth of Two Mile Creek; thence due South to the
mouth of Two Mile creek; thence southerly up Two Mile Creek to the
Coquihalla Highway; thence westerly along the Coquihalla Highway to
its point of commencement.
(2)
Commencing at the intersection of the No. 1 Highway and Chawuthen
Creek; thence northerly along the creek to its mouth; thence easterly
along the natural boundary of the Fraser River to the southerly end of
the Bristol Island causeway; thence easterly across the causeway to
the natural boundary of the Fraser River; thence easterly along the
natural boundary of the Fraser River to its point of intersection with
the southwesterly boundary of the Town of Hope; thence southerly and
easterly along the town boundary to a point 500 m south of its
intersection with Highway No. 1; thence southeasterly and easterly at
a perpendicular distance of 500 m and parallel to Highway No. 1 to a
point that is 500 m east of Silverhope Road; thence southerly at a
perpendicular distance of 500 m and parallel to Silverhope Road to a
point due North of Eureka Creek; thence due South along a straight
line through the mouth of Eureka Creek to a point 500 m due South of
Silverhope Road; thence westerly and northerly along a line parallel
to and 500 m perpendicularly distant from the centerline of Silverhope
Road to a point 500 m due South of Highway No. 1; thence easterly
along a line parallel to and 500 m perpendicularly distant from the
centerline of Highway No. 1 to a point due South of the mouth of
Chawuthen Creek; thence due North along a line to its point of
commencement
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 11.]
Repealed
54
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (b).]
Yale
55
That portion of the Province of British Columbia contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at the mouth of Gordon Creek; thence up Gordon Creek in a
westerly direction to the intersection of Gordon Creek and the
easterly boundary of the B.C. Hydro powerline right of way: thence
northeasterly to the intersection of the easterly boundary of the
right of way and Mary Ann Creek; thence southerly down the westerly
natural boundary of the Creek to its confluence with the Fraser River;
thence northerly and westerly along the boundary of the Yale Town
Number 1 Indian Reserve to its southwesterly corner: thence westerly
and southerly along the natural boundary of the Fraser River to the
point of commencement.
Popkum
56
That portion of the Province of British Columbia contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the easterly boundary of the
District of Chilliwack and Highway No. 1; thence northerly, easterly
and northerly along the district boundary to the intersection of the
District boundary with the southerly boundary of the Cheam No. 1
Indian Reserve; thence easterly and northerly along the reserve
boundary to the southerly natural boundary of the Fraser River: thence
easterly along the natural boundary to its intersection with the
westerly boundary of the Popkum No. I Indian Reserve; thence
southeasterly along the reserve boundary to the most southerly corner
of the reserve; thence southeast in a straight line to a point 400 m
southeast of Highway No. 1; thence southwesterly parallel to and 400 m
distant from the highway to a point due South of the point of
commencement; thence northerly to the point of commencement.
Greenhills Operations
57
That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Elkford outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-57/18.
[en. B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1,
s. 4 (c).]
Masset
58
That portion of M.U. 6-13 in the vicinity of Masset, described as
follows:
All of the area contained within District Lots 7, 7A, 8, 9, 10, 11,
233, 234, 347, 348, 361, 749, 883, 986, 987, 1759 and 1760 of the
Queen Charlotte Land District.
[am. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (f).]
Shoemaker Bay
59
That portion of M.U. 1-7 situated in the vicinity of Port Alberni,
Alberni District, commonly known as Shoemaker Bay and contained within
the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of District Lot 124 Alberni
District; thence due East to the intersection of R/W 997 (MacMillan
Bloedel pipeline); thence southeast along the southern boundary of R/W
997 to its intersection with the Alberni Municipal boundary; thence
easterly along the Alberni Municipal boundary to its intersection with
the Port Alberni Municipal boundary; thence southerly along the Port
Alberni Municipal boundary to the most southwesterly boundary of Lot
232; thence northwesterly across Alberni Inlet to the southeast corner
of Block 678; thence northerly along the mean high water mark to a
point approximately 182 m due East of the southeast corner of District
Lot 124; thence due North along the east boundary of District Lot 124
to the point of commencement.
Whistler
60
Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Resort Municipality of Whistler within the following described
boundaries:
(1)
and (2) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 72/2014, App. 1, s. 3 (b).]
(3)
Commencing at the center line of Highway 99 at its junction with the
easterly boundary of the Resort Municipality of Whistler, hereinafter
referred to as Whistler, and proceeding in a northerly and westerly
direction along the boundary of Whistler to its intersection with the
1 200 m contour line immediately east of Nineteen Mile Creek; thence
easterly and northerly along the contour line approximately 2 km to a
point on the contour line, above Sixteen Mile Creek, at the junction
of the easterly and southerly slopes of Rainbow Mountain; thence due
northeast in a straight line across Sixteen Mile Creek to the 1 050 m
contour line; thence easterly and northerly along the contour line to
a point due West of the intersection of the power line and Highway 99
approximately 3 km northeast of the point of commencement; thence due
East to that intersection; thence along the southerly and the easterly
boundary of Highway 99 to a point due North of the junction of Rethel
Creek and the Green River; thence across the Green River and up the
northern and eastern natural boundary of Rethel Creek to its
intersection with the boundary of Garibaldi Provincial Park; thence
westerly along the boundary of the park to its intersection with the
eastern boundary of Whistler; thence northerly and easterly and
northerly along the boundary of Whistler to the point of commencement.
(4)
Commencing at the southwest corner of the Brandywine Falls Provincial
Park boundary; thence due West up the slope of Mount Brew to the 3 000
ft. (900 m) contour line; thence in a southerly direction along that
contour line to the point of its intersection with the unnamed creek
originating at Brew Lake; thence in a southerly direction downstream
to the confluence of the unnamed creek with Roe Creek; thence in an
easterly direction, downstream to the mouth of Roe Creek at Shadow
Lake; thence in an easterly direction, along the high water mark of
the northerly shore of Shadow Lake to the point of intersection of the
high water mark with a perpendicular, downward projection of the
centerline of Highway 99 from the center of the Highway 99 bridge
across the connecting waterway between Daisy Lake and Shadow Lake;
thence northerly along the centerline of Highway 99 to the point of
intersection with Brandywine Falls Provincial Park boundary; thence
westerly along the southern boundary of Brandywine Falls Provincial
Park to the southwest corner of Brandywine Falls Provincial Park,
being the point of commencement.
[am. B.C. Regs. 225/98, s. 4 (b); 72/2014, App. 1, s. 3.]
Evans Lake
61
That portion of the Province of British Columbia north of the
municipality of Squamish within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the westerly shore of Evans Lake and
the boundary of the Cheakamus Indian Reserve Number 11; thence
westerly and northerly along the reserve boundary to a point, at an
approximate elevation of 300 m, due West of the northernmost point of
the shore of Levette Lake; thence in a straight line due northeast for
a distance of approximately 1.8 km to a point at the intersection of
the line and the 500 m contour line; thence due East to the easterly
boundary of the District of Squamish; thence southerly along the
District boundary to the point of its intersection with the northerly
boundary of the Cheakamus Indian Reserve Number 11; thence westerly
along the reserve boundary to the point of commencement.
Squamish
62
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of the District Municipality of
Squamish; thence due East to the 400 m contour line; thence northerly
along the contour to the point of its intersection with Gonzales
Creek; thence up the creek to the 600 m contour line; thence
northeasterly to its intersection with a road which lies between the
Stawamus River and Shannon Creek; thence northeasterly down the road
to its crossing of the Stawamus River; thence down the river to its
intersection with the boundary of the District of Squamish; thence
westerly and southerly along the boundary line of the District to the
point of commencement, excepting any Indian Reserve lands.
Nicomen
63
Those 4 portions of the Province of British Columbia in Fraser Valley
Regional District within the following described boundaries:
(1)
Commencing at the intersection of Farms Road and Legace Creek and
proceeding northerly along Farms Road to its intersection with Durieu
Road; thence easterly along the line of the northerly boundary of
Durieu Road right of way to the point of intersection of that line
with the easterly boundary of the Sylvester Road right of way and
thence southerly along the right of way to the point of its
intersection with a line drawn due East from the southerly boundary of
the Seux Road right of way; thence westerly along that line of the
southerly boundary of the right of way; thence westerly and northerly
along the southerly and westerly boundary of the Seux Road right of
way to the point of its intersection with Legace Creek; thence
westerly along the southerly natural boundary of the creek to the
point of commencement.
(2)
Commencing at the intersection of the westerly natural boundary of
Hatzic Slough and Dale Road; thence northeasterly along the
northwesterly natural boundary of the slough to its intersection with
Farm's Road; thence southerly along the easterly boundary of Farm's
Road to its intersection with Hatzic Slough, located approximately
1 000 m south of the intersection of Dale Road and Farm's
Road; thence westerly, northerly and northeasterly along the southerly
then westerly natural boundary of the slough to the point of
commencement.
(3)
Commencing at the intersection of Eagle Road and Highway 7; thence
westerly along the north side of the right of way of Highway 7 to its
intersection with the boundary of the Municipality of Mission; thence
generally northerly and westerly along the boundary to its
intersection with the 20 m contour line south and west of the end of
Sward Road; thence along the contour line to a point due West of the
most easterly point of the northeast-southwest component of Sward
Road; from thence due East to that point of reference; thence
southeasterly in a straight line across Hatzic Lake to a point on the
natural boundary of the lake 150 m north of a point due West of the
east-west portion of Shore Road, thence easterly in a straight line
parallel to Shore Road to the intersection of the line and Eagle Road;
thence southerly along Eagle Road to the point of commencement.
(4)
Commencing at the intersection of Ross Road and Highway 7; thence
northerly along the westerly boundary of Ross Road; thence due North
to Taylor Road; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the
road right of way to the point of its intersection with Deroche Creek;
thence up the westerly bank of Deroche Creek to North Nicomen Road;
thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the road right of way
to a point at the westerly end of a curve located approximately 350 m
west of Park Road; thence due North to the 60 m contour line; thence
northerly along the contour line to its intersection with Deroche
Creek; thence northerly up Deroche Creek to its intersection with the
200 m contour line; thence northeasterly along the contour line to its
intersection with Sasin Creek; thence northerly up Sasin Creek to the
305 m contour line; thence easterly and northerly along the contour
line to its intersection with an unnamed creek channel whose
confluence with Elbow Creek is located approximately 350 m southerly
from the outlet of Elbow Lake; thence easterly down the creek channel
to the point where it intersects the Elbow Lake Road; thence southerly
and easterly along the northerly and easterly boundary of the road
right of way to the southerly end of a curve in the road which is
located approximately 600 m north of the intersection of Elbow Lake
Road and Highway 7; thence due East to the natural boundary of the
Harrison River; thence southerly along the natural boundary to the No.
7 Highway Harrison River bridge; thence westerly and southerly along
the natural boundary of Harrison Bay to the southeasterly corner of
the Squawkum Creek Indian Reserve Number 3; thence due South to the
200 m contour line; thence westerly and southerly along the contour
line to the channel of an unnamed creek which crosses Malcolm Road 50
m southeast of the intersection of Malcolm Road and Hodgkin Road;
thence southwesterly down the creek channel to Malcolm Road; thence
northwesterly along Malcolm Road to its intersection with the Canadian
Pacific Railway right of way; thence southwesterly along the southerly
boundary of the railway right of way to its intersection with Highway
7; thence southeasterly and southwesterly along the easterly and
southerly boundary of the highway right of way to the point of
commencement, excepting Indian Reserve lands.
(5)
Commencing at the intersection of Farms Road and Mountainview Road and
proceeding northerly along the westerly boundary of the Mountainview
Road right of way to the point of its intersection with Hatzic Slough;
thence due North to the northerly natural boundary of Hatzic Slough;
thence southwesterly along the natural boundary to its intersection
with the southerly boundary of the Farms Road right of way; thence
westerly along that boundary to the point of commencement.
[am. B.C. Regs. 109/85, s. 3 (g); 235/97, s. 3 (c).]
Sechelt
64
Those 6 portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 in
the vicinity of the Sechelt Peninsula within the following described
boundaries:
(1)
Commencing at the mouth of an unnamed creek where it flows into
Plowden Bay at the mean low water mark; thence up the northern and
eastern natural boundary of the creek to its intersection with the
northern and western boundary of the right of way of the BC Hydro
(double) power line; thence westerly and southerly along the boundary
of the power line to its intersection with Langdale Creek; thence
easterly down the southern natural boundary of Langdale Creek to a
point on the mean low water mark at the mouth of the creek, where it
flows into Howe Sound; thence northerly, westerly and easterly along
the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Howe Sound to the
point of commencement.
(2)
Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southern
natural boundary of Langdale Creek where it flows into Howe Sound;
thence westerly and northerly along the natural boundary to a point
500 m westerly and northerly of its intersection with the western and
northern boundary of the right of way of the BC Hydro (double)
powerline; thence southerly and westerly and northerly parallel to the
northerly, westerly and easterly boundary of the right of way of the
powerline at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to a point
perpendicular to the intersection of the power line right of way and
the western natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek; thence southerly and
westerly along the natural boundary of the creek to a point on the
mean low water mark at the mouth of Halfmoon Creek where it flows into
Halfmoon Bay; thence generally easterly and southerly and northerly
along the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Georgia
Strait and Howe sound to the point of commencement.
(3)
Commencing at the intersection of the boundary of the right of way of
Highway 101 and the western natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek; thence
northerly and easterly along the boundary of the creek a distance of
500 m; thence northerly and westerly parallel to Highway 101, at a
perpendicular distance of 500 m from the northern, eastern and western
boundary of the Highway, to a point on the northern natural boundary
of Haslam Creek approximately 500 m east of the intersection of the
eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 101 and the northern
natural boundary of Haslam Creek; thence westerly along the northern
natural boundary of Haslam Creek to a point on the mean low water mark
at the mouth of the creek where it flows into Georgia Strait; thence
generally southerly, easterly, westerly, southerly and easterly along
the mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Georgia Strait to
its intersection with the northern natural boundary of Halfmoon Creek;
thence northerly and easterly up the natural boundary of Halfmoon
Creek to the point of commencement.
(4)
Commencing at the intersection of the northern natural boundary of
Haslam Creek and the mean low water mark on the boundary of Georgia
Strait where the creek flows into Georgia Strait; thence easterly and
northerly up the northern natural boundary of Haslam Creek to a point
500 m upstream of Highway 101; thence in a straight line northerly to
the summit of Cecil Hill; thence due East in a straight line to a
point 500 m west of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence in a
northeasterly and northerly direction parallel to the power line and
at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to the north fork of
Myers Creek; thence downstream along the natural boundary of Myers
Creek to its intersection with Garden Bay Road; thence westerly and
northerly and southerly along the northern boundary of Garden Bay Road
to its intersection with Mixal Road and Irvines Landing Road; thence
westerly and southerly along the northern boundary of Irvines Landing
Road to its intersection with Crosstrees Road; thence southerly and
westerly along the northern boundary of Crosstrees Road to its
intersection with Keelson Road; thence northerly and westerly along
the easterly and northerly boundary of Keelson Road to its end; thence
in a straight line due West to a point on the mean low water mark on
the boundary of Georgia Strait; thence northerly and westerly along
the natural boundary of Georgia Strait to Daniel Point; thence
southerly in a straight line to the westernmost tip of Martin Island;
thence southerly in a straight line to Francis Point; thence easterly
in a straight line to the southern tip of an unnamed island lying
approximately 400 m east of Francis Point; thence in a straight line
easterly to the southern tip of Edgecombe Island; thence in a straight
line due East a distance of approximately 650 m to a point at the mean
low water mark on the natural boundary of the Sechelt Peninsula;
thence southerly and easterly along the mean low water mark on the
natural boundary of the Strait of Georgia to the point of
commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands.
(5)
Commencing at a point on the northerly natural boundary of Chapman
Creek 500 m upstream from its intersection with the northerly boundary
of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence northwesterly, parallel
to the powerline at a perpendicular distance of 500 m to a point 500 m
east of Porpoise Bay Road; thence in a generally northerly direction
parallel to and at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from Porpoise Bay
Road to the road's end at Tuwanek; thence in a straight line due North
to the natural boundary of Irvine Creek; thence down Irvine Creek
westerly to its mouth; thence southwesterly in a straight line to an
unnamed point of land forming the northerly shore of Snake Bay and
continuing to a point 500 m perpendicularly distant from the northern
boundary of the BC Hydro powerline right of way; thence southerly and
easterly along a line parallel to and 500 m perpendicularly distant
from the northern boundary of the BC Hydro power line right of way to
the point of commencement, excepting all Indian Reserve lands.
(6)
Commencing at a point on Roberts Creek 500 m northeasterly from the
northeast boundary of the BC Hydro (double) powerline; thence
northeasterly up the natural boundary of Roberts Creek to a point 2.5
kilometres from the intersection of the powerline; thence in a
northwesterly direction perpendicular to and at a distance of 2
kilometres from the northerly boundary of the powerline right of way
to East Wilson Creek; thence in a southwesterly direction down the
natural boundary of East Wilson Creek to a point 500 m northeasterly
from the northeast boundary of the BC Hydro (double) powerline; thence
parallel to the BC Hydro (double) powerline in a southeasterly
direction at a perpendicular distance of 500 m from it to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 12.]
Gillies Bay
65
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 2-14 in
the vicinity of Gillies Bay contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of Cranby Creek and the Gillies Bay
Highway; thence due southwest along a line through the Gillies Bay
water tower to the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of
Gillies Bay; thence southeasterly along the low water mark to the most
southerly point of the north end of Gillies Bay; thence more or less
south in a straight line to the most westerly point on the mean low
water mark of the natural boundary of Dick Island; thence in a general
southerly, easterly and northerly direction along the mean low water
mark on the natural boundary of Dick Island to most easterly point
thereof; thence more or less west in a straight line to a point on the
mean low water mark of the natural boundary of Gillies Bay due West of
the west end of Shelter Point Road; thence along the northern boundary
of the Shelter Point Road right of way to a point 700 metres east of
the junction of the Gillies Bay Highway and Shelter Point Road; thence
northerly and northeasterly along a line parallel to and 700 metres
perpendicular to the Gillies Bay Highway to a point due East of the
intersection of Cranby Creek and the Gillies Bay Highway; thence due
West to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 13.]
Saltery Bay
66
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12 in the
vicinity of Saltery Bay within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the southeastern
natural boundary of Rainy Day Lake Creek where it flows into Saltery
Bay; thence up the creek to a point 300 m upstream of the right of way
of the British Columbia Hydro (double) power line; thence westerly
parallel to the northerly boundary of the power line at a
perpendicular distance of 300 m from it to a point due North from the
northwest corner of the western part of Saltery Bay Provincial Park;
thence due South in a straight line to a point on the mean low water
mark on the natural boundary of Jervis Inlet; thence southeasterly
along the natural boundary to the most southerly tip of an unnamed
point of land located approximately 1 100 m southwesterly from
the southwest corner of the eastern part of Saltery Bay Provincial
Park; thence easterly along a line between that point and a point on
the mean low water mark on an unnamed point of land which is the
southerly point of the easterly shore of Saltery Bay; thence northerly
along the mean low water mark on the natural boundary to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 14.]
Blubber Bay
67
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-16 in the
vicinity of Blubber Bay contained within the following described
boundaries:
(1)
within a 1 kilometre radius of the Blubber Bay Ferry Terminal, and
(2)
commencing at Blubber Point; thence westerly, southerly and
southeasterly along the mean low water mark to the midpoint of
Limekiln Bay; thence due North to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 15.]
Lund
68
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-12
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the mean high water mark that is the most
southerly point of the natural boundary of Thulin Lake; thence
northerly along the mean high water mark on the westerly natural
boundary of the lake to the northernmost tip of the lake; thence along
a straight line due West to the right of way of Finn Bay Road; thence
northwesterly along the right of way to its intersection with Norlund
Road; thence in a straight line southwest to a point on the mean low
water mark on the natural boundary of Thulin Passage; thence southerly
along the natural boundary to the most southwesterly point of land
bordering the entrance to Thulin passage; thence along a straight line
easterly to the point of land southwest of Lund which is the
northeasterly terminus of the Savary Island marine telephone cable;
thence southerly along the natural boundary to a small unnamed bay
approximately 500 m southeasterly from the telephone cable
terminus point; thence along a straight line due East to the Highway
101 right of way; thence along a straight line due North to the point
of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 301/2010, App. 1.]
Vananda
69
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Vananda contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the mean low water mark on the northern
natural boundary of Sturt Creek where it flows into Malaspina Strait
and proceeding due South in a straight line to the southerly boundary
of the Blubber Bay Highway right of way; thence southeasterly along
the southerly boundary of the highway right of way to its intersection
with Gillies Bay Highway; thence southwest and southeast along the
westerly right of way to its intersection with Vananda Creek; thence
in a straight line due East to the westerly right of way of Central
Road; thence southeasterly along the right of way to the junction of
the Imperial Limestone Road; thence due North in a straight line to a
point on the mean low water mark on the natural boundary of Malaspina
Strait; thence northwesterly along the natural boundary to the
southerly terminus of the Texada Island telephone cable; thence
northwesterly in a straight line to the tip of Sturt Point; thence
southerly and westerly along the mean low water mark on the natural
boundary of Sturt Point to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 17.]
Repealed
70
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 3.]
Repealed
71
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 109/85. s. 3 (a).]
Repealed
72
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 3.]
Michael Lake
73
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Oyster Land
District contained within the following described boundaries:
The mean high water mark of Michael Lake.
[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i).]
Burrard Inlet
74
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Vancouver within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at Point Grey and proceeding in a straight line northerly
to a point on the southerly municipal boundary of West Vancouver due
South of Point Atkinson; thence easterly along the boundary to the
southerly boundary of North Vancouver municipality; thence easterly
along the boundary to the easterly boundary of North Vancouver; thence
due South to the north boundary of the municipality of Burnaby; thence
westerly along the boundary to the north boundary of the City of
Vancouver; thence westerly, northwesterly, westerly, southerly and
westerly along the boundary to the west boundary of the City of
Vancouver; thence southerly along the boundary to the high water mark
on Point Grey beach; thence westerly along the high water mark to the
point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i).]
Okanagan Falls
75
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen
Division of Yale Land District within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the southeastern corner of the railway trestle which
crosses the south end of Skaha Lake and proceeding northwesterly along
the easterly edge of the trestle to its intersection with the mean
high water mark of Skaha Lake; thence due West to a point on the
westerly edge of the Highway 97 right of way to the point of
intersection with the westerly boundary of the right of way of Green
Lake Road; thence southerly along the westerly edge of the right of
way to a point due West of a velocity drop structure on Okanagan River
northwest of the northeastern corner of Lot 109 Yale District; thence
due East to the easterly edge of the East River Dyke; thence
northwesterly along the easterly edge of the dyke to the southeasterly
bank of Shuttleworth Creek; thence northeasterly along the bank to the
second set of railway tracks; thence southeasterly then northeasterly
along the railway tracks to the easterly edge of the Maple Street
right of way; thence northwesterly along the easterly edge of the
right of way to the end of Maple Street; thence due North in a
straight line to a point due East of the point of commencement; thence
due West in a straight line to the mean high water mark of Skaha Lake;
thence westerly along the mean high water mark to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 109/85, s. 3 (i); am. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2.]
Kaleden
76
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the Similkameen
Division of Yale Land District contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of L.
3569s and the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the westerly shore
thereof; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of L. 3569s to
the point of intersection with the midline of Highway 97; thence due
West to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary of Indian
Reserve l; thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of Indian
Reserve 1 and L. 2456s to the southeast corner of L. 2456s; thence
easterly along the southerly boundaries of L. 213s, L. 104s and L.
105s to the point of intersection with the midline of Linden Avenue;
thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of Linden
Avenue to the most southerly point thereof; thence due East to the
point of intersection with the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the
westerly shore thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along
the natural boundary of Skaha Lake on the westerly shore thereof to
the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 20.]
Coal Mountain Operations
77
That portion of M.U. 4-23 in the vicinity of Sparwood outlined in red
on the attached Map No. 5-77/18.
[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (d).]
Highland Valley
78
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 3-18
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the apex of Gnawed Mountain; thence northerly in a
straight line to the point of intersection with the reclaim water line
due East of Gnawed Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along
the reclaim water line to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of Highmont Ultimate Tailings Pond; thence in a general
southeasterly, easterly and northerly direction along the westerly,
southerly and easterly boundaries of the said Tailings Pond and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the fresh water
supply line south of Squetankilhats Indian Reserve 15; thence in a
general northerly direction along the said water line and a
prolongation thereof to the point of intersection with the midline of
the Highland Valley Highway; thence in a general westerly direction
along the midline of the said highway to the point west of Enquotco
Indian Reserve 14 at which the existing gas pipeline crosses the said
Highway; thence northeasterly in a straight line to the point of
intersection with the natural boundary of Spud Lake at the most
easterly point thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along
the natural boundary of Spud Lake to the most northerly point thereof;
thence northwesterly in a straight line to the point of intersection
with the natural boundary of Copper Lake at the most easterly point
thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along the natural
boundary of Copper Lake to the most northerly point thereof; thence
northwesterly in a straight line to the point of intersection with the
natural boundary of Bose Lake at the most southerly point thereof;
thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary
of Bose Lake to the most westerly point thereof; thence northwesterly
in a straight line to the point of intersection with the midline of
the existing secondary road west of Bose Lake; thence in a general
westerly direction along the midline of said existing secondary road
to the point of intersection with the midline of the existing mining
road leading to Forge Mountain; thence westerly in a straight line to
the point of intersection with the midline of Highland Valley Highway
north of Chilthnaux Indian Reserve 12 at which the existing powerline
crosses the said Highway; thence in a general westerly direction along
the midline of the said Highway to the point of intersection with
midline of the new Highland Valley Highway; thence in a general
westerly direction along the said new Highway to the point of
intersection with the old Highland Valley Highway; thence in a
southerly direction along the old Highland Valley Highway to the point
of intersection with the midline of the existing secondary road
leading southeasterly to Pukaist Creek; thence southeasterly along the
midline of the said existing secondary road to the point of
intersection with the midline of the existing water pipeline; thence
in a general easterly and southerly direction along the midline of the
said existing water pipeline to the point of intersection with the
prolongation of the midline of the existing mining road leading
southwesterly to Alwin Mines; thence in a general southwesterly
direction along the said prolongation, the midline of the said
existing mining road and the southerly prolongation thereof to a point
one kilometre distant from the active workings of Alwin Mines; thence
in a general southerly and easterly direction along a line at least
one kilometre distant from the active workings of Alwin, Valley
Copper, Lornex and Highmont Mines to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 18.]
Repealed
79
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 170/2001, s. 3.]
Repealed
80
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 7.]
Fording Mountain
81
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Fording River, Kootenay District, which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly boundaries of
Fording River and Elk River; thence in a general northeasterly and
northerly direction along the northerly and westerly bank of Fording
River to the point of intersection of the northerly prolongation of
the west bank of Fording River with the midline of Highway 43; thence
in a general easterly and southerly direction along the midline of
Highway 43 to the point of intersection with the easterly bank of Elk
River; thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly bank
of Elk River to the point of commencement including all intervening
territory.
[en. B.C. Reg. 385/85, s. (b); am. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 8.]
Repealed
82
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (f).]
Repealed
83
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 21.]
Upper Halfway
84
That portion of Peace River District being the westerly half of Lot
1323.
[en. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2.]
Sylvester Road
85
That portion of Fraser Valley Regional District being 50 m either side
of the centreline of Sylvester Road between the midline of Farms Road
and the midline of Dale Road.
[en. B.C. Reg. 172/86, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (d).]
York Lake
86
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the general
vicinity of York Lake, Cedar Land District, which is contained within
the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Holden Corso
Road and the midline of McMillan Road; thence in a southerly direction
along the midline of McMillan Road to the point of intersection with
the midline of Walsh Road; thence in a general easterly direction
along the midline of Walsh Road to the point of intersection with the
midline of Nairne Road; thence in a southerly direction along the
midline of Nairne Road to the point of intersection with the midline
of Ryeland Road; thence in a westerly direction along the midline of
Ryeland Road to the point of intersection with the midline of Cedar
Road; thence in a general westerly direction along the midline of
Cedar Road to the point of intersection with the midline of McMillan
Road; thence in a northerly direction along the midline of McMillan
Road to the point of intersection with the midline of Sanford Way;
thence in a westerly direction along the midline of Sanford Way to the
point of intersection with the midline of Torberg Road; thence in a
general northerly direction along the midline of Torberg Road to the
point of intersection with the midline of Holden Corso Road; thence in
an easterly direction along the midline of Holden Corso Road to the
point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 22.]
Mascot Gold Mines Limited
87
Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of the Apex
Alpine to Nickel Plate Road and the midline of Sunset Creek; thence in
a general southerly direction along the midline of Sunset Creek to the
point of intersection with the midline of Cahill Creek; thence in a
general southerly direction along the midline of Cahill Creek to the
point of intersection with the midline of Hedley-Nickel Plate Road;
thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of the said
road a distance of 3 290 m; thence due West 1 525 m; thence
due North 3 900 m to a point due West of the apex of Lookout Mountain;
thence due East to the apex of Lookout Mountain; thence more or less
east in a straight line to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 23.]
City of Terrace
88
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the City of Terrace which is contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Kitsumkalum River on the easterly shore thereof and the natural
boundary of Skeena River on the northerly shore thereof; thence in a
general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River
on the northerly shore thereof to the point of intersection with the
easterly boundary of L 4355A, Range 5, Coast Land District; thence
southerly along the easterly boundary of L 4355A to the point of
intersection with Treatment Plant Road; thence southerly along
Treatment Plant Road to the most southerly point thereof; thence due
East to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of Skeena
River on the northerly shore thereof; thence in a general westerly
direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River on the northerly
shore thereof to the point of intersection with the midline of Highway
37; thence in a general southerly direction along the midline of
Highway 37 to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of
Skeena River on the southerly shore thereof; thence in a general
westerly direction along the natural boundary of Skeena River on the
southerly shore thereof to the point due South of the point of
commencement; thence due North to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 24.]
Grantham Road
89
That portion of the Province of British Columbia being 0.4 km on each
side of the midline of the Telkwa-Morice Road, commencing from the
intersection of the midpoints of Walcott Station Road and the
Telkwa-Morice Road and continuing in a northerly direction to a point
3 km distant.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 25.]
Repealed
90
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 9.]
Waugh Lake - Skookumchuck
91
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-5 contained
within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most northerly point of the natural boundary of
Agamemnon Channel on the southerly shore thereof adjacent to and west
of Earls Cove; thence due South to the point of intersection with the
southerly boundary of the BC Hydro right of way; thence in a general
easterly and southerly direction along the southerly boundary of the
BC Hydro right of way to its intersection with Highway 101; thence
along a straight line due East to the mean low water mark of the
northwest bay of Brown Lake; thence easterly along the mean low water
mark of the northwest bay of Brown Lake to its most northeasterly
point; thence more or less east in a straight line to the most
westerly point on the mean high water mark on Boom Isles; thence
northerly in a straight line along Skookumchuck Narrows to the most
northerly point on the mean highwater mark of Sutton Islets; thence
more or less west in a straight line to the most northerly point on
the natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel on the southerly shore
thereof; thence more or less west in a straight line to the most
southwesterly point on the natural boundary of Agamemnon Channel on
the northerly shore thereof at Nile Point; thence more or less
southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 19.]
Hemlock Valley
92
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-19
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Weaver Creek
Road and the midline of Hemlock Valley Recreation Area Road; thence in
a general northerly direction along the midline of Hemlock Valley
Recreation Area Road to the point of intersection with the midline of
Sakwi Creek at 840 m elevation and including all intervening territory
for 50 m on either side of the midline of said road; thence in a
general northerly direction along the midline of said road to Hemlock
Valley Recreation Area and including all intervening territory for 150
m on either side of the midline of said road.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 28; am. B.C. Reg. 459/90, s. 2.]
Cold Fish Lake Camp
93
Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-20, being
all areas within 1 km of Cold Fish Lake Camp.
[en. B.C. Reg. 162/87, s. 29.]
Williams Lake River
94
That portion of M.U. 5-2 contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the natural boundary of
Fraser River on the left bank thereof and the midline of Williams Lake
River; thence in a general southerly direction along the natural
boundary of Fraser River on the left bank thereof to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of L4731, Cariboo Land
District; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of L4731 to the point of intersection with the
midline of the unnamed road leading easterly to the City of Williams
Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along the midline of the
said unnamed road to the point of intersection with the westerly
boundary of the City of Williams Lake; thence easterly and northerly
along the westerly boundary of the City of Williams Lake to the point
of intersection with the midline of the B.C. Railroad right of way;
thence in a general westerly direction along the midline of the B.C.
Railway right of way to the point of intersection with the northerly
boundary of L4731; thence due West to the point of intersection with
the natural boundary of Fraser River on the left bank thereof; thence
in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Fraser
River on the left bank thereof to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 325/87, s.1 (d).]
Equity Mines
95
That part of M.U. 6-09 in the vicinity of Houston which is contained
within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the Houston to Equity Silver Mine Road
approximately 150 metres east of the 36 kilometre mark; thence
approximately 1.7 kilometres at approximately S 20 W to the apex of an
unnamed peak south of Lu Lake; thence approximately 1.85 kilometres at
approximately S 26 E to the midline of the Goosley Lake Road; thence
approximately 3.2 kilometres at approximately N 86 E to the apex of an
unnamed peak; thence approximately 2.55 kilometres at approximately N
1 E to the apex of an unnamed peak; thence approximately 3.9
kilometres at approximately N 50 W to the apex of an unnamed peak;
thence approximately 2.2 kilometres at approximately S 19 W to the
point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2000, s. 5 (g).]
Miworth
96
That portion of M.U. 7-15 in the vicinity of Prince George which is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of
the city of Prince George and the natural boundary of Nechako River on
the right bank thereof; thence in a general southerly direction along
the natural boundary of Nechako River on the right bank thereof to the
southerly boundary of Lot 7639 Cariboo Land District; thence due East
approximately 100 m to the Canadian National Railway right of way on
the easterly boundary thereof; thence approximately 2.2 km in a
general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of the said
railway right of way to the point of intersection with the midline of
an unnamed stream flowing westerly into Nechako River near the
southerly boundary of Lot 1532; thence in a general easterly direction
along the midline of the said unnamed stream to the point of
intersection with the westerly boundary of the city of Prince George;
thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of
the city of Prince George to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 167/88, s. 7.]
Repealed
97
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 9.]
Texada Junction
98
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Texada Island contained within the following described boundaries
Commencing at a point along the midline of Central Road 2 km northerly
from the junction of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and Central Road;
thence northeast a distance of 0.4 km; thence southeasterly and
southwesterly along a line parallel to Central Road to a point 0.4 km
east of the junction of Central Road, Bell Road and Shelter Point
Road; thence 2 km southerly and easterly along a line parallel to Bell
Road; thence southwesterly a distance of 0.2 km; thence southeasterly,
northeasterly and southeasterly along a line parallel to Bell Road to
the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04; thence southwesterly
along the midline of the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04,
to the junction of the Texada Forest Service Road 5829, Branch 04, and
Bell Road; thence southeasterly along the midline of Bell Road to a
point 0.1 km southwest of the gas pipeline; thence westerly and
northwesterly along a line parallel to the gas pipeline to a point 0.4
km southeast of Bell Road; thence northwesterly along a line parallel
to Bell Road to the midline of Shelter Point Road 0.4 km southwest of
the junction of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and Central Road; thence
northerly along a line parallel to Central Road to a point 0.4 km
southwest of the point of commencement; thence northeast 0.4 km to the
point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7; am. B.C. Regs. 205/94, s. 20; 198/2013,
App. 1, s. 1.]
Village of 100 Mile House
99
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
the Village of 100 Mile House within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of
the B.C. Rail Right of way with the easterly boundary of Lot 2150,
Lillooet Land District; thence in a general easterly and southeasterly
direction along the southerly boundary of the B.C. Rail Right of way
to the point of intersection with the boundary of the Cariboo Highway
in the southwestern corner of Lot 2137, Lillooet Land District; thence
in a general southwesterly direction along the midline of the Cariboo
Highway to the point of intersection with the northerly boundary of an
unnamed road; thence in a general westerly direction along the
northerly boundary of the unnamed road to the point of intersection
with the easterly boundary of the B.C. Hydro transmission line right
of way; thence in a northerly direction along the easterly boundary of
the B.C. Hydro transmission line right of way to the point of
intersection with the northerly boundary of Lot 2150, Lillooet Land
District; thence easterly along the northerly boundary of Lot 2150 to
the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7.]
Snootli Creek Park
100
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 5-8 contained
within the following described boundaries:
That portion of the Southwest Quarter of Section 3, Township 2, Range
3, Coast District, northwest of Snootli Creek flowing in a general
northeasterly direction through Section 3, Township 2.
[en. B.C. Reg. 46/89, s. 7.]
Repealed
101
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 10.]
Repealed
102
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (a).]
Sea Island
103
That portion of M.U. 2-04 in the Province of British Columbia within
the New Westminster Land District contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the high water mark at the extreme
southwesterly tip of the Iona Island Sewage Jetty; thence due South to
a point due West of the extreme southwesterly tip of Sea Island;
thence due East to a point on the high water mark at the extreme
southwesterly point of Sea Island; northerly and westerly along the
high water mark on the westerly side of Sea Island, Iona Island
Causeway and Iona Island to a point on the high water mark at the
extreme northeasterly end of the southerly side of the Iona Island
Sewage Jetty; thence southwesterly along the high water mark on the
south side of the Iona Island Sewage Jetty to the point of
commencement
[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6.]
Tatlow Road
104
That portion of M.U. 6-09 in the Province of British Columbia
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing .4 km on either side of the midline of Tatlow Road at Km 13
south of Smithers, thence in a general easterly direction at .4 km on
either side of the midline of Tatlow Road to the point of intersection
with the midline of Chapman Road; thence in a general easterly
direction at .4 km on either side of the midline of Tatlow Road to the
most easterly point on the midline of Tatlow Road and southerly at .4
km on either side of the midline of Chapman Road for 1 km.
[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6.]
Dawson Creek Environmental Demonstration Areas
105
Those portions of M.U. 7-20 and M.U. 7-33 in the Province of British
Columbia contained within the following described boundaries:
(a)
Sections 30 and 31, Township 78, Range 14, West of the 6th Meridian,
Peace River Land District; between 0930 hours and 1530 hours daily;
(b)
Sections 2, 11, 12, 13 and that part of Sections 14 and 24 lying south
of Radar Lake Road, Township 77, Range 16, west of the 6th Meridian,
Peace River Land District.
[en. B.C. Reg. 176/89, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 4.]
Babine River
106
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-08 which is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the midline of Babine River
and the natural boundary of Nilkitkwa Lake on the northerly shore
thereof; thence in a general northerly direction along the midline of
Babine River to the point of intersection with the midline of
Nilkitkwa River and including all intervening territory for 1 km on
either side of the midline of the said portion of Babine River.
[en. B.C. Reg. 185/90, s. 10.]
Repealed
107
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (a).]
Repealed
108
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 11.]
109
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (c).]
Windermere
110
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-25 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of Windermere Lake on
the easterly shore thereof at the point of intersection with the
natural boundary of Windermere Creek on the right bank thereof; thence
in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of
Windermere Lake on the easterly shore thereof to the south boundary of
D.L.8, Kootenay Land District; thence easterly and northerly along the
southerly and easterly boundaries of D.L.8 to the southerly boundary
of Block A, D.L.108; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of
Block A, D.L.108 to the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of
way; thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of Highway 93/95
right of way, Swansea Road right of way and again Highway 93/95 right
of way to the point of intersection with a westerly prolongation of
the northerly boundary of D.L.9001; thence westerly along the said
prolongation, the southerly boundary of the adjacent unnamed road
right of way and a prolongation thereof to the natural boundary of
Windermere River on the right bank thereof; thence in a general
southerly direction along the natural boundary of Windermere River on
the right bank thereof to the intersection with the natural boundary
of Windermere Lake on the easterly shore thereof; thence in a
southerly direction along the natural boundary of Windermere Lake on
the easterly shore thereof to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12; am. B.C. Regs. 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 3;
224/92, s. 10.]
Fairmont
111
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-25 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing in the vicinity of Fairmont at the point of intersection of
the midline of Dutch Creek and the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95
right of way; thence in a general southerly direction along the
easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the point of
intersection with the south boundary of S.L. 10, D.L. 344, Kootenay
Land District; thence in a general easterly direction along the
southerly boundaries of S.L. 10 and S.L. 9 to the southeast corner of
S.L.9; thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of
S.L.19; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.19 to the
easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way; thence southerly
along the easterly boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the
southerly boundary of S.L.19; thence easterly along the southerly
boundary of S.L.19 and a prolongation thereof to the natural boundary
of Columbia Lake on the westerly shore thereof; thence in a general
northerly direction along the natural boundary of Columbia Lake on the
westerly shore thereof to the point of intersection with an easterly
prolongation of the north boundary of S.L.19; thence easterly in a
straight line to the point of intersection with the natural boundary
of Columbia Lake on the easterly shore thereof at its intersection
with the natural boundary of Warspite Creek on the right bank thereof;
thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of
Columbia Lake on the easterly shore thereof and the natural boundary
of Columbia River on the right bank thereof to the south boundary of
Block P.3043; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of Block P.3043 to the south boundary of S.L.36;
thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly
boundaries of S.L.36 to the south boundary of S.L.11; thence easterly
and northerly along the southerly and easterly boundaries of S.L.11
and along a northerly prolongation to the south boundary of the
Fairmont Ski Hill area; thence easterly, northerly and westerly along
the southerly, easterly and northerly boundaries of the Fairmont Ski
Hill area to the northerly boundary of S.L.126 at a point adjacent to
its intersection with the midline of Cold Spring Creek; thence
westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.126 to the southeast
corner of S.L.119; thence northerly and westerly along the easterly
and northerly boundaries of S.L.119 to the northeast corner of
S.L.118; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of S.L.118 and a
prolongation thereof to the natural boundary of Columbia River on the
right bank thereof; thence southerly along the natural boundary of
Columbia River on the right bank thereof to the northerly boundary of
D.L.5352; thence westerly along the northerly boundary of D.L.5352 and
a prolongation thereof to the westerly boundary of Westside Road right
of way; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Westside Road
right of way and a prolongation thereof to the southerly boundary of
Highway 93/95 right of way; thence westerly along the southerly
boundary of Highway 93/95 right of way to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12; am. B.C. Regs. 277/91, Sch. 2, s. 4;
224/92, s. 11.]
Repealed
112
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (e).]
Fort St. John Sewage Lagoons
113
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 7-33 being
the Northeast 1/4 of Section 19, Township 83, Range 18, West of the
6th Meridian; and the Southwest 1/4 of Section 30, Township 83, Range
18, West of the 6th Meridian.
[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 12.]
Westcan Terminals
114
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-4 in the
vicinity of Cowichan Bay being the area within 25 metres on either
side of the midline of Westcan Terminals Road commencing at the
easterly boundary of Indian Reserve #9 and proceeding easterly along
the said road to its end and including the area 25 metres seaward from
the paved edge of the Westcan Terminals Ltd. port site.
[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]
Mount Judge Howay Park
115
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 2-8 that is
within the Mount Judge Howay Park boundaries.
[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]
Fry Creek Recreation Area
116
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 4-19 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the midline of Fry Creek approximately 6
kilometres upstream from the point of intersection of the midline of
Fry Creek and the natural boundary of Kootenay Lake on the easterly
shore thereof; thence in a general northeasterly direction upstream
along the midline of Fry Creek to a point approximately 500 m upstream
of the easterly edge of the slide area and including all intervening
territory on either side of Fry Creek within the Fry Creek Canyon
Recreation Area boundaries.
[en. B.C. Reg. 204/91, s. 12.]
Repealed
117
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (a).]
Central Road
118
That portion of the Province of British Columbia on Texada Island in
M.U. 2-16 contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point along the midline of Central Road 2 km northerly
from the junction of the midlines of Shelter Point Road, Bell Road and
Central Road; thence northeast a distance of 25 m; thence northerly
along a line parallel to Central Road approximately 16 km to a point
25 m due North of the Junction of the midlines of Central Road and
Imperial Limestone Road; thence due South 25 m to the midline of
Central Road; thence due South to a point 25 m south of the midline of
Central Road; thence southerly along a line parallel to Central Road
to a point 25 m southwest of the point of commencement; thence
northeast 25 m to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 21.]
Lion's Bay
119
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Lion's Bay contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the mean low water mark of
Howe Sound and the midline of Magnesia Creek; thence easterly along
the midline of Magnesia Creek and along the easterly prolongation
thereof to the apex of Mt. Harvey; thence in a general easterly,
southerly and westerly direction along the northerly, easterly and
southerly boundaries of the watershed of Harvey Creek to the point of
intersection with the southerly boundary of the watershed of Rundle
Creek; thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed
of Rundle Creek and along the prolongation thereof to the point of
intersection with the mean low water mark of Howe Sound; thence in a
general northerly direction along the mean low water mark of Howe
Sound to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 13.]
Tow Hill
120
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in Queen Charlotte
Land District contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 228, that Lot being Tow Hill
Provincial Park; thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and
easterly boundaries of Tow Hill Provincial Park to the point of
intersection with the mean low water mark of McIntyre Bay at the mouth
of Hiellen River; thence in a general northerly and westerly direction
along the mean low water mark of McIntyre Bay to the point of
intersection with the prolongation of the westerly boundary of Tow
Hill Provincial Park; thence southerly to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 224/92, s. 13.]
Brenda Mines
121
That portion of M.U. 8-08 in the Province of British Columbia in the
vicinity of the District of Peachland, Osoyoos Division of Yale Land
District, which is contained within the following described
boundaries:
Commencing at a point 917 m (3 000 feet) north of MacDonald Lake at
claim post ally 15 and 16; thence southerly between MacDonald Lake and
Brenda Lake 2.8 km (1.75 miles) to the BC Hydro transmission line,
near claim post McEwer No. 32 and 33; thence southwesterly along the
BC Hydro Transmission line approximately 7.7 km (4.78 miles); thence
N. 25° E 2.4 km (1.5 miles) over the ridge on the south side of
MacDonald Creek to claim post Bill No. 27 and 28 located 800 m (0.5
mile) east of the tailings dam; thence northwest approximately 7.2 km
(4.5 miles) to the east end (outlet) of Long Lake; thence west to the
ridge north of MacDonald Lake to claim post ally No. 15 and 16; thence
southerly to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (b).]
Quinsam Coal Mine
122
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-10 that is
contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at 49° 57' 00" north latitude and 125° 30' 00" west
longitude; thence due East to 126° 26' 30" west longitude; thence due
South to 49° 54' 30" north latitude; thence due West to 125° 30' 00"
west longitude; thence due North to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (b).]
Selkirk
123
That portion of M.U. 4-7 and M.U. 4-8 which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at the confluence of Summit Creek and Bayonne Creek and
proceeding upstream along the southerly natural boundary of Summit
Creek to its intersection with the boundary of Stagleap Park; thence
proceeding westerly, northerly and southwesterly along the boundary of
Stagleap Park to the height of land which forms the easterly watershed
boundary of Lost Creek; thence northerly, westerly and northerly along
the height of land which forms the easterly and northerly boundary of
the watershed of Lost Creek to the height of land which forms the
easterly watershed boundary of Billings Creek; thence northwesterly
along the height of land to the mouth of Billings Creek; thence
upstream along the northerly and westerly natural boundary of Sheep
Creek to the southerly boundary of Darkwoods Forest Lot 2381, Sublot
1, thence proceeding easterly along the boundary for approximately 5.4
km to the unnamed tributary of Next Creek which has, at its head, an
unnamed lake which is approximately 750 m long and 350 m wide; thence
proceeding northerly along the unnamed creek to Blazed Creek Road;
thence proceeding northeasterly, easterly and southeasterly along
Blazed Creek Road to the southern boundary of Darkwoods Forest Lot
2381, Sublot 1, thence proceeding southwesterly up the ridge and along
the height of land to the summit of John Bull mountain, thence
proceeding southeasterly along the height of land which forms part of
the northeasterly watershed boundary of Bayonne Creek to the height of
land which forms the southwesterly watershed boundary of Placer Creek;
thence proceeding southeasterly along the height of land to the mouth
of Placer Creek, thence proceeding westerly along the southerly
natural boundary of Summit Creek to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 211/93, s. 8 (b).]
Gillies Bay and Shelter Point Roads
124
Those portions of the Province of British Columbia in the vicinity of
Texada Island in M.U. 2-16 within 0.2 km of either side of the midline
of the following Texada Island roads:
(a)
Gillies Bay Road between its junction with Blubber Bay Road and
Shelter Point Road;
(b)
Shelter Point Road between its junction with Central Road and its
terminus at Mouat Bay;
(c)
Blubber Bay Road between its junction with Gillies Bay Road and its
terminus at Blubber Bay;
(d)
Crescent Bay Road between its junction with Blubber Bay Road and its
terminus.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 22; am. B.C. Reg. 235/97, s. 3 (f).]
Comox Harbour
125
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 1-6 in the
vicinity of Comox contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most westerly point on Goose Spit; thence
southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly point on
Gartley Point; thence in a general northwesterly direction following
the mean high water mark of Comox Harbour to the mouth of the
Courtenay River; thence northeasterly in a straight line across the
mouth of the Courtenay River; thence in a southeasterly, southwesterly
and westerly direction following the mean high water mark of Comox
Harbour to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 205/94, s. 22.]
Houston Community Forest
126
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 6-09 in
the vicinity of Houston which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 2092; thence northerly along
the western boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner of Lot 2102A;
thence westerly along the southern boundaries of Lot 2102A and Lot
2093 to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
watershed of that unnamed creek flowing northwesterly through Lot
2093; thence in a general southerly direction along said watershed
boundary to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the
watershed of Peacock Creek; thence in a general southerly direction
along said watershed boundary of Peacock Creek to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of the watershed of
Silverthorne Lake; thence in a general easterly direction along said
watershed boundary to the point of intersection with the southwestern
boundary of the watershed of that unnamed creek flowing southeasterly
into Buck Creek within Lot 5206; thence in a general southeasterly
direction along said watershed boundary, and along the projection
thereof, to a point, within Lot 5205, 200 metres east of the eastern
natural boundary of Buck Creek; thence in a general northerly
direction along a line 200 metres distant from and parallel to the
eastern natural boundary of Buck Creek to the point of intersection
with the eastern boundary of Lot 2499A; thence southerly along said
boundary of Lot 2499A to the southeast corner thereof; thence westerly
along the southern boundaries of Lots 2499A, 2097, 2091 and 2092 to
the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (d).]
Willow Heights Wildlife Reserve
127
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 8-06 in
the Kamloops Division of Yale which is contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the westernmost point of the northern boundary of Lot
1855; thence southerly along the western boundary of Lot 1855 and
along the western boundary of Lot 1912 to the point of intersection
with the eastern boundary of the right of way of Highway 5A; thence
southerly along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the southern boundary of Lot 4751; thence easterly
along said southern boundary to the southeast corner of Lot 4751;
thence northerly along the eastern boundary of said Lot and along the
eastern boundary of Lot 1912 to the point of intersection with the
southern boundary of Lot 1855; thence easterly along said southern
boundary to the southeast corner of Lot 1855; thence northerly along
the eastern boundary and westerly along the northern boundary of said
Lot to the point of commencement; including all lands thus encompassed
excepting any private lands; all within the Kamloops Division of Yale
District.
[en. B.C. Reg. 322/95, s. 3 (d).]
Upper Carmi Road
128
That portion of the Province of British Columbia within M.U. 8-09 in
the vicinity of the City of Penticton which is contained within the
following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of SL 51; thence northerly along
the western boundary of SL 17 to the northwest corner of said Lot;
thence easterly along the northern boundary, northerly along the
western boundary and easterly along the northern boundary of said Lot,
to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly along the eastern
boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner thereof; thence westerly
along the southern boundary of said Lot to the south-southwest corner
thereof; thence along the prolongation of said southern boundary to
the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (d).]
Dokie
129
That portion of M.U.s 7-22 and 7-31 in the Province of British
Columbia in the vicinity of Chetwynd contained within the following
described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of District Lot 2456, Peace River
Land District; thence southerly along the western boundary of District
Lot 2072 to the point of intersection with the natural boundary of
Pine River on the left bank thereof; thence in a general southerly
direction along said natural boundary to the point of intersection
with the northern boundary of District Lot 2474; thence westerly along
said northern boundary, and along the prolongation thereof, to the
point of intersection with the western boundary of the right of way of
B.C. Railway; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said
right of way boundary to the northeast corner of District Lot 2750;
thence westerly along the northern boundary of said Lot, and along the
prolongation thereof, to the southwest corner of the Provincial
Reserve; thence northerly along the western boundary of said Reserve
to the point of intersection with the southern boundary of District
Lot 2267; thence westerly along said southern boundary and northerly
along the western boundary of said Lot to the southeast corner of
District Lot 592; thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the
southern, western and northern boundaries of District Lot 592 to the
northeast corner thereof; thence northerly along the western boundary
of District Lot 2200 and easterly along the northern boundary of said
Lot to the southwest corner of District Lot 2550; thence northerly
along the western boundaries of District Lots 2550, 2455 and 2730A to
the northern boundary of District Lot 2730A; thence easterly along
said northern boundary to the point of intersection with the western
boundary of the right of way of Highway 97; thence in a general
northerly direction along said right of way boundary to the point of
intersection with the prolongation of the southern boundary of
District Lot 2456; thence easterly along said prolongation and along
said southern boundary to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 190/96, s. 5 (e).]
Roberts Bank Superport and Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal Causeways
130
Those portions of British Columbia in the Municipality of Delta,
within the following described boundaries:
(1)
Commencing at the point of intersection of the centerline of 27B
Avenue, also referred to as Deltaport Way, and the western flood
protection dyke at the northerly extremity of the Roberts Bank
Superport Causeway; thence northwesterly along the high water mark of
the dyke for a distance of 150 metres measured in a straight line
perpendicular to the axis of the causeway at that point; thence
parallel to the high water mark contour of the banks of the Roberts
Bank Superport Causeway and loading pods at a distance 150 m seaward
of the high water mark, measured in a straight line perpendicular to
the axis of the causeway, in southwesterly and northwesterly
directions to a point 150 metres south of the high water mark of the
southernmost extremity of the Deltaport loading pods of the Terminal;
thence northeasterly in a straight line to the most southerly of the
two navigation towers located approximately 750 metres offshore from
the south side of the causeway; thence, in a straight line, following
a line perpendicular to the axis of the causeway and being the
shortest distance to the causeway at that point, to a point 150 metres
southeast of the high water mark of the south shore of the causeway,
measured in a straight line perpendicular to the axis of the causeway
at that point; thence in a northeasterly direction, seaward and
parallel to the contour of the high water mark of the causeway, to a
point on the high water mark of the western flood protection dyke 150
metres southeast of the high water mark of the causeway; thence,
following the high water mark of the dyke to the point of intersection
of the center line of 27B Avenue and the western flood protection
dyke, being the point of commencement, and
(2)
Commencing at the extreme southernmost corner of the Tsawwassen Indian
Reserve; thence in a straight line in a southerly direction, to a
point on the high water mark of the western flood protection dyke
located 150 metres in a southeasterly direction perpendicular from the
high water mark of the Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal Causeway; thence
following a line seaward and parallel to the high water mark contours
of the causeway and terminal loading pod, which is 150 metres
southeast of the high water mark and being the shortest distance to
the high water mark at any point, in a southwesterly direction, to a
point located 150 metres seaward and southeast of the high water mark
of the extreme southernmost point of the Tsawwassen Ferry Terminal
loading pod; thence in a straight line in a southeasterly direction,
to the easternmost point on the southern edge of the wave protection
rock wall; thence to the extreme westernmost end of the wave
protection rock wall, being marked by a navigation light beacon;
thence in a northwesterly direction, following the line of navigation
light beacon towers to the beacon tower located immediately southwest
of the westernmost point of the terminal loading pod; thence in a
straight line to a point perpendicular to the axis of the causeway at
any point, to the intersection of the westerly boundary of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve; thence in a southerly direction for
approximately 350 metres following the westerly boundary of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve, to the extreme southwesterly corner of the
Tsawwassen Indian Reserve, being the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 225/98, s. 4 (c).]
Repealed
131-132
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 239/2018, App. 1, s. 4 (e).]
Buckley Bay
133
That portion of M.U. 1-06 in the vicinity of Buckley Bay, Nelson Land
District, within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of Section 2, Lot 1 (Base Flat) on
the mean high water mark of Lot 1; thence due North to a point 450
metres offshore; thence in an easterly and southerly direction
maintaining a distance of 450 metres from the mean high water mark of
Lot 1 to a point 450 metres offshore from the southeast corner of Lot
1 which is also the northeast corner of Lot 44; thence in a southerly
and westerly direction maintaining a distance of 450 metres offshore
from the mean high water mark of Lot 44 to a point on the east shore
of Vancouver Island; thence generally northerly along the mean high
water mark on the east shore of Vancouver Island to the point of
commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 221/2005, s. 3 (e).]
Nanoose Bay
134
That portion of Management Unit 1-05 in the Province of British
Columbia in the vicinity of Nanoose Harbour, Nanaimo Land District,
which is contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the mean high water mark at the southeast corner of the
Qualicum National Wildlife Area; thence generally easterly maintaining
a distance of 400 m from the mean high water mark to a point that is
400 m directly southwest of the intersection of the mean high water
mark and the Department of Defence property line; thence directly
northeast to the mean high water mark; thence generally west following
the mean high water mark to the northeast corner of the Qualicum
National Wildlife Area; thence south along the easterly boundary of
the Qualicum National Wildlife Area to the point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 151/2006, s. 4 (c).]
Cowichan River Park
135
That portion of M.U. 1-04 being within 100 m of the high water mark of
the Cowichan River from a point starting on the river immediately
north of the Holt Creek Trailhead, then upstream generally west and
north along the Cowichan River to the intersection with the
Municipality of Lake Cowichan.
[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 5.]
Crawford Bay
136
That portion of M.U. 4-06 in the vicinity of Crawford Bay contained
within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly boundary of
the right of way of Highway 3A and the westerly natural boundary of
Beaver Creek; thence southerly along the westerly natural boundary of
Beaver Creek to the point of intersection with the midline of Peters
Road; thence southerly along the midline of Peters Road to the point
of intersection with the southerly boundary of Sublot 101, Kootenay
Land District; thence easterly along the southerly boundary and along
the southerly boundary of Lot 2335 to the point of intersection with
the natural boundary of Crawford Bay; thence in a general easterly
direction along the natural boundary of Crawford Bay on the northerly
shore thereof to the point least distant from the junction of Highway
3A and Crawford Creek Road; thence easterly to the point of
intersection with the easterly boundary of the right of way of
Crawford Creek Road; thence northerly along the easterly boundary to
the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of the right of
way of Wadds Road; thence southerly along the westerly boundary to the
point of intersection with the northerly boundary of the right of way
of Highway 3A; thence westerly along the northerly boundary to the
point of commencement.
[en. B.C. Reg. 175/2010, App. 1, s. 5.]
White-Moscow Forest Service Road
137
That portion of M.U. 4-24 within 50 m of either side of the
White-Moscow Forest Service Road from the junction with Whiteswan
Forest Service Road to the junction with the Moscow-Home Basin
Campground road.
[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 4.]
Whiteswan Forest Service Road
138
That portion of M.U. 4-24 within 50 m of either side of the Whiteswan
Forest Service Road from Inlet Creek Campground to the junction with
the White-Moscow Forest Service Road.
[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2016, App. 1, s. 4.]
Hudson Bay Mountain/Smithers Community Forest
139
That portion of the Province of British Columbia in M.U. 6-9 shown
outlined in red on the attached Map No. 5-139/20.
[en. B.C. Reg. 169/2020, App. 1, s. 2 (b).]
Schedule 5.1
[en. B.C. Reg. 135/2017, App. 1, s. 2.]
No Shooting Areas — Specified Crown Land
(Section 7.1)
Definition
1
In this Schedule,
"spur road"
, in relation to a particular road, means the following:
(a)
a road that begins at a junction with the particular road and ends at
a point other than a junction with another road;
(b)
a road that begins at a junction with a spur road of the particular
road and ends at a point other than a junction with another road.
Silver Skagit Forest Service Road
2
That portion of M.U. 2-2 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the Silver Skagit Forest Service Road from the crossing at
Eureka Creek to the boundary of Skagit Valley Provincial Park.
Liumchen East Forest Service Road etc.
3
Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:
(a)
Liumchen East Forest Service Road;
(b)
Little Tamihi Forest Service Road;
(c)
Liumchen West Forest Service Road;
(d)
Little Tamihi 1000 Forest Service Road.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 2.]
McGuire and Tamihi Creek Forest Service Roads
4
Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:
(a)
McGuire Forest Service Road from the junction with the Tamihi Creek
Forest Service Road to the crossing of an unnamed creek approximately
3 km easterly along the McGuire Forest Service Road;
(b)
Tamihi Creek Forest Service Road from the junction with the Liumchen
Forest Service Road to the crossing of Tamihi Creek approximately 6 km
southerly and easterly along the Tamihi Creek Forest Service Road.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 3.]
Bench, Foley and Nesakwatch Forest Service Roads
5
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown
land within 400 m of the midline of the following roads:
(a)
Bench Forest Service Road;
(b)
Foley Forest Service Road from the junction with the Bench Forest
Service Road to the crossing of an unnamed stream approximately 1 km
past a point due South of the most westerly point of Foley Lake;
(c)
Nesakwatch Forest Service Road from the junction with the Centre
Forest Service Road to a point 2 km southerly along the Nesakwatch
Forest Service Road.
(2)
The areas set out in subsection (1) do not include any areas described
in section 16 of Schedule 5.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 4.]
Jones Lake and Lorenzetta Forest Service Roads
6
Those portions of M.U. 2-3 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads, including any spur roads:
(a)
Jones Lake Forest Service Road;
(b)
Lorenzetta Forest Service Road.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 5.]
Florence Lake Forest Service Road
7
That portion of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of Florence Lake Forest Service Road from the northern
boundary of the District of Mission northerly to the terminus of
Florence Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads.
Lost Creek Forest Service Road etc.
8
Those portions of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads, including any spur roads:
(a)
Lost Creek Forest Service Road;
(b)
Terepocki Forest Service Road;
(c)
Lease Forest Service Road;
(d)
Murdo Forest Service Road;
(e)
Mount Kettley Forest Service Road;
(f)
Salsbury Forest Service Road.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 6.]
Hatzic
9
Those portions of M.U. 2-8, in the vicinity of the District of
Mission, being all Crown land within 400 m of the midline of the
portions highlighted in red of the roads on Map No. 5.1-1/17 in
Schedule 15.
Norrish Creek watershed
10
Those portions of M.U. 2-8 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of any road within the Norrish Creek watershed.
Francis Lake, Sts'ailes (West) and Weaver Lake Forest Service Roads
11
Those portions of M.U. 2-19 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of the following roads:
(a)
Francis Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads;
(b)
Sts'ailes (West) Forest Service Road from the junction with the Weaver
Lake Forest Service Road to the Davidson Creek Bridge;
(c)
Weaver Lake Forest Service Road, including any spur roads.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 7.]
Chehalis Forest Service Road
12
That portion of M.U. 2-19 being all Crown land within 400 m of the
midline of Chehalis Forest Service Road from the junction with the
Statlu Forest Service Road to the northern boundary of the area
described in section 33 of Schedule 5.
[am. B.C. Reg. 115/2018, App. 1, s. 8.]
Squamish River Valley
13
Those portions of M.U. 2-6 that are
(a)
within 400 m of the midline of any road highlighted in red on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-13/22',
(b)
within 800 m to the west and 400 m to the east of the midline of any
road highlighted in orange on the attached map 'Closed Area
5.1-13/22', or
(c)
within 600 m of the midline of any road highlighted in purple on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-13/22'.
[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 4.]
Chehalis Fleetwood
14
Those portions of M.U. 2-19 that are
(a)
within 400 m of the midline of any road highlighted in yellow on the
attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-14/22', or
(b)
within 400 m of the high water mark of any stream, creek or river
highlighted in yellow on the attached map 'Closed Area 5.1-14/22'.
[en. B.C. Reg. 157/2022, App. 3, s. 4.]
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 12
|
Schedule 1
|
Schedule 2
|
Schedule 3
|
Schedule 4
|
Schedule 5 to 5.1 |
Schedule 6
|
Schedule 7
|
Schedule 8
|
Schedule 8.1
|
Schedule 9
|
Schedule 10 to 13
|
Schedule 14
|
Schedule 15
