View Complete Statute
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39
Schedule
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement
CHAPTER 13
PROVINCIAL PARKS AND GATHERING
GENERAL
1. Tsawwassen First Nation has the right to gather Plants for Domestic
Purposes in those areas set out in Appendix M-2 in accordance with this
Agreement.
2. If any additional Provincial Park, Protected Area or Wildlife
Management Area is established in Tsawwassen Territory, the Parties will
amend Appendices M-1 and M-2 to include the area, in accordance with
clause 11 of the Amendment chapter, unless the Parties agree otherwise.
3. The Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants is limited by measures
necessary for conservation, public health or public safety.
4. The Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants is held by Tsawwassen First
Nation and Tsawwassen First Nation may not Dispose of that right.
5. Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen Members have the right to
Trade and Barter Plants gathered under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather
Plants, among themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada
resident in British Columbia.
6. For ceremonial purposes, Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen
Members may exchange regalia or traditional or artistic objects, made
from Plants gathered under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants, among
themselves and with other Coast Salish people.
7. The Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants will be exercised in a manner
that does not interfere with authorized uses or Dispositions existing on
the Effective Date or with uses, Dispositions or boundary modifications
authorized in accordance with clause 8.
8. British Columbia may authorize uses of, Dispose of, or make boundary
modifications to the areas set out in Appendix M-2 and any authorized
use, Disposition or boundary modification may affect the methods, times
and locations of gathering under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants
provided that British Columbia ensures that those authorized uses,
Dispositions or boundary modifications do not deny to Tsawwassen First
Nation the reasonable opportunity to gather under the Tsawwassen Right
to Gather Plants.
9. Upon six months notice by either Party, Tsawwassen First Nation and
British Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a
process to evaluate uses and Dispositions of provincial Crown land that
have the potential to deny to Tsawwassen First Nation the reasonable
opportunity to gather under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants.
10. The transport and export by Tsawwassen First Nation and Tsawwassen
Members of Plants gathered under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants
are subject to Federal and Provincial Law.
11. The Minister retains authority for managing, administering and
controlling Provincial Parks, Protected Areas and Wildlife Management
Areas and will exercise that authority in a manner that is consistent
with this Agreement.
12. Neither Canada nor British Columbia will require a Tsawwassen Member
to have a licence or to pay a fee or royalty for gathering Plants under
the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants.
13. Tsawwassen Members will have access, without a fee being charged,
for entrance to and within areas set out in Appendix M-2, except where
fees are charged to a Tsawwassen Member for use of visitor facilities
and services for which fees are normally charged.
14. This Agreement does not alter Federal or Provincial Law in respect
of property in Plants.
15. This Agreement does not preclude Tsawwassen Members from gathering
Plants on provincial Crown lands, subject to Federal and Provincial Law.
POWER TO MAKE LAWS
16. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of:
a. the designation of Tsawwassen Members to gather Plants under the
Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants;
b. the distribution among Tsawwassen Members of Plants gathered under
the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants; and
c. the Trade and Barter of Plants gathered under the Tsawwassen Right to
Gather Plants.
17. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 16 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.
18. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of the documentation
of Tsawwassen Members who have been designated to gather Plants.
19. A Federal or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict
with a Tsawwassen Law made under clause 18.
DOCUMENTATION
20. Tsawwassen First Nation will issue documentation to individuals who
are authorized by Tsawwassen First Nation to gather under the Tsawwassen
Right to Gather Plants.
21. When gathering under the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants, an
individual is required to produce, at the request of a person authorized
to enforce Federal Law, Provincial Law, or Tsawwassen Law in respect of
Plants, the documentation referred to in clause 20.
22. Documentation issued under clause 20 will:
a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative and, at
the discretion of Tsawwassen First Nation, in the Hun'qum'i'num
language;
b. include the name and address of the individual; and
c. meet any requirements set out in the approved gathering plan.
GATHERING PLANTS
23. The Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants will be exercised in
accordance with an approved gathering plan.
24. Tsawwassen First Nation will develop a proposed gathering plan,
consistent with the applicable management plan, if any, for areas set
out in Appendix M-2 and submit it to the Minister for approval.
25. The Minister will consult with the Greater Vancouver Regional
District before approving a gathering plan that includes provincial
Crown land within the Burns Bog Ecological Conservancy Area.
26. Any approved gathering plan that includes provincial Crown land
within the Burns Bog Ecological Conservancy Area will be consistent with
the Burns Bog Management Agreement between Canada, British Columbia, the
Greater Vancouver Regional District and the Corporation of Delta, dated
March 23, 2004.
27. At the request of the Minister or Tsawwassen First Nation, or on or
before the expiry of the approved gathering plan, Tsawwassen First
Nation, in collaboration with British Columbia, will submit a new or
revised proposed gathering plan.
28. The Minister may issue or amend an approved gathering plan:
a. at the request of Tsawwassen First Nation; or
b. in order to respond to exceptional circumstances where it is
impracticable to engage in discussions with Tsawwassen First Nation.
29. Tsawwassen First Nation will provide to the Minister, on request,
information concerning the activities of Tsawwassen Members related to
the exercise of the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants.
PLANNING AND CO-OPERATION IN MANAGEMENT
30. British Columbia and Tsawwassen First Nation may enter into an
agreement in respect of the development of a cooperative working
relationship in the Fraser River estuary, including the South Arm
Marshes Wildlife Management Area, and Roberts Bank south to the United
States border.
31. Where a public management planning process is established for a
Provincial Park, Protected Area or Wildlife Management Area that is
wholly or partially within Tsawwassen Territory, Tsawwassen First Nation
may participate in the planning process on the same basis as other
participants.
32. The participation of Tsawwassen First Nation in the planning
processes referred to in clause 31 may include providing input on
Tsawwassen First Nation culture and history, including:
a. protection of Heritage Resources of significance to Tsawwassen First
Nation;
b. interpretation and presentation of Tsawwassen culture in interpretive
signage; and
c. Tsawwassen traditional ecological knowledge.
33. British Columbia may proceed with any Provincial Park, Protected
Area or Wildlife Management Area public management planning process
whether or not Tsawwassen First Nation participates in that process.
34. British Columbia will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation in
respect of:
a. the establishment of new Provincial Parks, Protected Areas or
Wildlife Management Areas;
b. the Disposition of or modification of boundaries of existing
Provincial Parks, Protected Areas or Wildlife Management Areas; and
c. changes in the use or designation of existing Provincial Parks,
Protected Areas or Wildlife Management Areas;
that may affect the Tsawwassen Right to Gather Plants, the Tsawwassen
Right to Harvest Wildlife or the Tsawwassen Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.
35. British Columbia will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation on the
closure of opportunities for the exercise of the Tsawwassen Right to
Harvest Wildlife in Provincial Parks and Protected Areas within the
Tsawwassen Wildlife Harvest Area.
36. Nothing in this Agreement obliges British Columbia to establish any
new Provincial Park, Protected Area or Wildlife Management Area or to
maintain the designation of any Provincial Park, Protected Area,
Wildlife Management Area or the Burns Bog Ecological Conservancy Area.
37. At the request of either Party, British Columbia and Tsawwassen
First Nation will meet to discuss and exchange written information about
maintenance, construction, research and operations opportunities
available for competitive bid within any Provincial Park, Protected Area
or Wildlife Management Area set out in Appendix M-2.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 21
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13 |
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Appendices - Contents
|
Appendices - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
