View complete regulation B.c. reg. 76/84 O.c. 518/84 Deposited march 19, 1984 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Wildlife act Closed areas regulation [last amended july 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 157/2022] Schedule 10
Firearms using shot only areas (seasonal) (section 10 (1) (b)) Repealed
1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 235/97, s. 6.] Groundbirch
2 During the period june 1 to october 31 in that portion of m.u. 7-21 Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of the groundbirch community Pasture (situated at the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of Section 2, tp 78, r 19, w6m); thence southerly 5.6 km (3.5 miles) to The headwaters of the north fork of the unnamed creek (locally known As rainey creek); thence westerly along the middle thread of the Unnamed creek to the confluence with coldstream creek; thence westerly Along the middle thread of coldstream creek to the confluence with an Unnamed creek being the north fork of coldstream creek; thence Northeasterly along the middle thread of the unnamed creek to a point Due west of the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of section 2, tp 78, r 19, w6m; thence due east to the point of commencement.
[en. b.c. reg. 109/85, s. 7.] One island pasture 3 During the period june 1 to october 15 in that portion of m.u. 7-20 Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 36, tp 24 and Proceeding southerly along the east boundaries of district lots 36 and 25, tp 24 to the middle point on the west boundary of district lot 30, Tp 25; thence easterly in a straight line to the middle point on the East boundary of lot 30; thence southerly along the boundary to the Southeast corner of lot 30; thence west along the south boundary of Lot 30 to the southwest corner of lot 30; thence southerly along the East boundary of district lot 24, tp 24 to its intersection with the Fence which forms the southerly and westerly boundaries of the Community pasture; thence westerly then in a general northwesterly Direction along the fence to its intersection with the north boundary Of district lot 34, tp 24; thence easterly along the north boundaries Of district lots 34, 35 and 36, tp 24 to the point of commencement.
[en. b.c. reg. 109/85, s. 7.] Repealed
4 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 115/2018, app. 1, s. 10.] Repealed
5 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 185/90, s. 13.] Schedule 11
Prohibited discharge areas — rifles (section 10 (1) (c)) Nicomen
1 That portion of the province of british columbia in fraser valley Regional district in the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of the squawkum creek indian Reserve number 3; thence easterly along the canadian pacific railway Right of way to the westerly boundary of the district of kent; thence Easterly and southerly along the district boundary to the point of its Intersection with the northerly boundary of the district of Chilliwack; thence southwesterly along the district boundary to a Point due south of the intersection of the 2 dykes which are the Southern boundary of zaitscullachan slough and the eastern dyke on Skumalasph indian reserve number 16; thence in a straight line due North to the intersection of the 2 dykes; thence northerly and Easterly along the dyke on the eastern side of skumalasph indian Reserve number 16 to its intersection with malcolm road; thence Westerly and northerly along malcolm road to its intersection with the Channel of an unnamed creek which is approximately 50 m east of the Junction of malcolm road and hodgkin road; thence up the unnamed creek To its intersection with the 200 m contour line; thence northerly and Easterly along the contour line to a point due south of the point of Commencement; thence in a straight line due north to the point of Commencement.
[am. b.c. reg. 235/97, s. 7.] Repealed
2 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 381/87, s. (b).] Keats island 3 That portion of the province of british columbia in m.u. 2-16 that is All of keats island together with the adjacent foreshore between the Natural boundary of keats island and the mean low water mark.
[en. b.c. reg. 204/91, s. 14.] Grand forks 4 That portion of the province of british columbia in m.u. 8-15 which is Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the vancouver, victoria and Eastern railway r/w (plan a209) and the canada/usa international Boundary; thence in a northeasterly and easterly direction along the Midline of said right of way to a point of intersection with the Midline of the burlington northern railway r/w; thence in a general Easterly and northeasterly direction along said right of way to a Point of intersection with the midline of marchel road; thence in a Southerly along the midline of marchel road to the intersection of the Canada/usa international boundary; thence easterly along the Canada/usa border to the point due south of the end point of Dergousoff road; thence in a northerly direction along the midpoint of Dergousoff road to a point of intersection with the midline of the Burlington northern railway r/w; thence in a easterly direction along The midline of said right of way to a point of intersection of gilpin Road; thence in a northwesterly direction along the midline of gilpin Road to a point of intersection with the midline of atwood east road; Thence in a westerly direction along the midline of atwood east road To a point of intersection with the midline of whitehall road, thence In a northerly, northeasterly and northerly direction along the Midline of whitehall road to a point of intersection with the midline Of highway 3 (r/w plan h748); thence in a southwesterly and westerly Direction along the midline of highway 3 to the point of intersection With the midline of kenmore road at the municipal boundary of the city Of grand forks; thence southerly along the midline of kenmore road to A point of intersection with the midline of cameron avenue; thence Westerly along the midline of cameron avenue and a prolongation Thereof to the point of intersection with the municipal boundary of The city of grand forks at the midline of the kettle river; thence in A general westerly, northerly, southwesterly, northwesterly and Northerly direction along the southerly and westerly municipal Boundary of the city of grand forks to a point of intersection with The midlines of coalchute road, northfork-franklin road and hardy Mountain road; thence in a northerly direction along the midline of Northfork-franklin road to a point of intersection with the midline of Eagle ridge road; thence in a general southwesterly and northerly Direction along the midline to the end of eagle ridge road; thence a Westerly direction to the 700 metre contour; thence in a general Southerly direction to the midline of hardy mountain road; thence in a General westerly direction along the midline of hardy mountain road; To a point of intersection with the midline of reservoir road; thence In a general southwesterly direction along the midline of reservoir Road to a point of intersection with the midline of the vancouver, Victoria and eastern railway right of way (abandoned); thence in a General southwesterly direction along the midline of said right of way To a point of intersection with the western boundary of d.l. 365, Similkameen division, yale land district; thence in a southerly Direction along the eastern boundaries of d.l. 365 and d.l. 497 to the Point of intersection with the canada/usa international boundary; Thence in an easterly direction along said international boundary to The point of commencement.
[en. b.c. reg. 80/2012, app. 1, s. 3.] Management unit 1-1 5 That portion of the province of british columbia within the boundaries Of m.u. 1-1, excepting those portions of valdes island, sidney island Or james island located above the mean high water mark.
[en. b.c. reg. 318/98, app. 2, s. 4.] Schedule 12
Repealed. [b.c. reg. 211/93, s. 12.] Schedule 13
Non-toxic shot only areas (section 10 (1) (d)) Delta/surrey dykes 1 Those portions of m.u. 2-4 within the corporation of delta being any Dyke and the seaward or river side of any dyke, and within that part Of the corporation of the district of surrey south of highway 99 being Any dyke facing mud bay and the seaward side of any said dyke.
[en. b.c. reg. 211/93, s. 13.] Contents
| Sections 1 to 12 | Schedule 1
| Schedule 2
| Schedule 3
| Schedule 4
| Schedule 5 to 5.1 | Schedule 6
| Schedule 7
| Schedule 8
| Schedule 8.1
| Schedule 9
| Schedule 10 to 13 | Schedule 14
| Schedule 15