View Complete Statute
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39
Schedule
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement
CHAPTER 7
ACCESS
GENERAL
1. Local Boundary Roads to the centre line, Tsawwassen Roads, and Local
Roads are:
a. part of Tsawwassen Lands; and
b. owned by Tsawwassen First Nation.
POWER TO MAKE LAWS
2. Tsawwassen Government may make laws in respect of access to
Tsawwassen Lands.
3. A Tsawwassen Law made under clause 2 prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with a Federal or Provincial Law.
TSAWWASSEN ROADS
4. Tsawwassen First Nation is responsible for maintenance and repair of
Tsawwassen Roads.
5. Tsawwassen Roads are open to the public unless designated otherwise
by Tsawwassen First Nation.
6. Tsawwassen First Nation may temporarily close Tsawwassen Roads for
reasons of safety or public order, or for cultural reasons.
7. Tsawwassen First Nation may permanently close a Tsawwassen Road.
8. Before Tsawwassen First Nation permanently closes a Tsawwassen Road,
Tsawwassen First Nation will:
a. provide public notice and an opportunity for affected Persons to make
representations to Tsawwassen First Nation; and
b. notify the operators of Public Utilities whose facilities or works
may be affected.
LOCAL ROADS AND LOCAL BOUNDARY ROADS
9. Subject to clauses 10 and 11, the public will have the same right of
access on Local Roads and Local Boundary Roads as they have on
comparable roads in the adjoining municipality.
10. In respect of a Local Boundary Road:
a. unless Tsawwassen Government and the council of the adjoining
municipality agree otherwise, the Local Boundary Road will be kept open,
maintained, kept in repair and improved by both parties; and
b. a Tsawwassen Law in respect of the Local Boundary Road or a portion
of it, must be acceptable to the council of the adjoining municipality
and a municipal bylaw affecting the Local Boundary Road or a portion of
it, must be acceptable to Tsawwassen Government.
11. In respect of a Local Road:
a. Tsawwassen First Nation will keep open, maintain, keep in repair and
improve a Local Road to the same extent as would a municipality in
respect of similar roads; and
b. before Tsawwassen First Nation seeks to close all or part of a Local
Road to all or some types of traffic or to remove the dedication of the
Local Road, Tsawwassen First Nation will:
i. provide public notice and an opportunity for affected Persons to make
representations to Tsawwassen First Nation; and
ii. notify the operators of Public Utilities whose facilities or works
may be affected.
CROWN CORRIDORS
12. On the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, British Columbia will
Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation in respect of the regulation of
traffic and transportation on a Crown Corridor that is adjacent to
Tsawwassen Lands.
13. Tsawwassen First Nation will Consult with British Columbia in
respect of land use decisions of Tsawwassen First Nation relating to the
development of Tsawwassen Lands adjacent to Crown Corridors.
14. British Columbia will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation in
respect of the development of any new Crown Corridor adjacent to
Tsawwassen Lands.
15. On Tsawwassen Lands adjacent to Crown Corridors, and only to the
extent reasonably required to protect the safety of the users of Crown
Corridors, British Columbia has the authority to regulate all matters
relating to:
a. the location and design of intersecting roads giving access to Crown
Corridors from Tsawwassen Lands, including:
i. regulating or requiring signs, signals or other traffic control
devices on Crown Corridors;
ii. regulating or requiring merging lanes, on-ramps and off-ramps; or
iii. requirements for contributions to the cost of the matters referred
to in subclauses 15.a.i and 15.a.ii; and
b. the height and location of structures.
16. Subject to provincial requirements in respect of safety and
emergency preparedness, including those set out in clause 15, Tsawwassen
First Nation will have access from Tsawwassen Lands to a road or Crown
Corridor.
17. So long as British Columbia owns the Highway 17 Corridor, British
Columbia retains discretion to allow a Person to use, occupy or possess
the corridor for works of Public Utility.
18. After the Effective Date, if a Public Utility wishes to use, occupy
or possess any portion of the Highway 17 Corridor for the purpose of, or
relating to, the installation of new Utility Distribution Works, British
Columbia will, as a condition of granting a permit or other
authorization to the Public Utility for the installation of the Utility
Distribution Works, require the Public Utility to give at least 15 days
prior written notice to Tsawwassen First Nation of its intention to
install the new Utility Distribution Works with a description of those
works.
19. After the Effective Date, if a Public Utility wishes to use, occupy
or possess any portion of the Highway 17 Corridor for the purposes of or
relating to the installation of new Utility Transmission Works, British
Columbia will, as a condition of granting a permit or other
authorization to the Public Utility for the installation of the Utility
Transmission Works, require the Public Utility to satisfy the conditions
set out in clauses 20 and 21, and to agree to the terms of clause 22.
20. The Public Utility will Consult with Tsawwassen First Nation at
least 60 days before the effective date of the proposed permit or
authorization, in respect of measures to be taken by the Public Utility
or any compensation payable to Tsawwassen First Nation, in relation to
the installation of the new Utility Transmission Works.
21. Where no agreement is reached between the Public Utility and
Tsawwassen First Nation under clause 20 within the time specified, the
Public Utility will, at the request of Tsawwassen First Nation, agree
with Tsawwassen First Nation to submit the issue of compensation to
arbitration under the
Commercial Arbitration Act
.
22. The Public Utility and Tsawwassen First Nation will direct an
arbitrator appointed under clause 21 to consider the following
guidelines in making an award:
a. the award may be decided by reference to principles of law and equity
or any other basis agreed to by Tsawwassen First Nation and the Public
Utility; and
b. the arbitrator may consider:
i. the facts relating to the actual or potential use, benefit or costs
to Tsawwassen First Nation of the Utility Transmission Works;
ii. other arbitration awards decided in similar circumstances;
iii. the economic benefit to First Nations of comparable utilities on
First Nation land; and
iv. generally accepted land compensation principles and all relevant
evidence.
DIKES AND FLOOD PROTECTION
23. Despite clause 39 of the Lands chapter, Tsawwassen First Nation is
the diking authority under the
Dike Maintenance Act
for dikes and flood protection structures owned by Tsawwassen First
Nation on Tsawwassen Lands.
24. Tsawwassen First Nation will construct and maintain dikes and flood
protection structures on Tsawwassen Lands to standards required by the
Inspector of Dikes under the authority of the
Dike Maintenance Act
, and may enter into contracts for the provision of services related to
the construction and maintenance of those dikes and flood protection
structures.
ACCESS TO TSAWWASSEN LANDS
25. Residents of Tsawwassen Lands and other interest holders on
Tsawwassen Lands will have access to their property and ancillary
interests including access on Tsawwassen Roads, Local Roads and Local
Boundary Roads, subject to the terms and conditions of their leases,
permits or other tenures.
26. Public Utilities will have access onto and across Tsawwassen Lands,
where reasonably required, to interests and installations that are on or
adjacent to Tsawwassen Lands, Local Roads or Local Boundary Roads,
subject to the terms and conditions of any lease, permit or other
tenure.
27. Employees, agents and contractors of Canada, British Columbia or
Local Governments, members of the Canadian Armed Forces, peace officers,
investigators and Federal and Provincial Law enforcement officers have
access, in accordance with Federal or Provincial Law, onto and across
Tsawwassen Lands, including for greater certainty Tsawwassen Roads,
Local Roads and Local Boundary Roads, in order to enforce laws, carry
out duties under Federal or Provincial Law, respond to emergencies and
deliver programs and services.
28. Subject to the terms and conditions of any lease, permit or other
tenure, Canada, British Columbia, Public Utilities or Local Governments
entering onto or crossing Tsawwassen Lands under clauses 26 or 27 will
provide reasonable notice of entry to Tsawwassen Lands:
a. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or
b. as soon as practicable after the entry.
29. The requirement under clause 28 to provide reasonable notice does
not apply to peace officers, investigators or Federal or Provincial Law
enforcement officers, carrying out duties under Federal or Provincial
Law.
30. Persons who have access to Tsawwassen Lands under clause 27 are not
subject to payment of fees or compensation for access except as required
by Federal or Provincial Law in respect of the payment of fees or
compensation for access to Tsawwassen Lands.
31. This Agreement does not limit the authority of Canada or the
Minister of National Defence to carry out activities related to national
defence and security on Tsawwassen Lands, without payment of any fees or
other charges to Tsawwassen First Nation, except as provided for under
Federal Law.
TSAWWASSEN ACCESS TO ADJACENT LANDS
32. Employees, agents and contractors of Tsawwassen First Nation have
access to lands adjacent to Tsawwassen Lands in accordance with Federal
or Provincial Law in order to enforce laws, carry out duties under
Tsawwassen Law, respond to emergencies or deliver programs and services,
or for other purposes specified under this Agreement.
33. When carrying out duties under clause 32, Tsawwassen First Nation
will provide reasonable notice of entry to adjacent lands:
a. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or
b. as soon as practicable after the entry.
34. Any right of access by Tsawwassen First Nation or a Tsawwassen
Member under this Agreement is subject to any agreement in respect of
the Roberts Bank port facility entered into from time to time between
Tsawwassen First Nation and the Vancouver Port Authority or a successor
owner or operator of the Roberts Bank port facility.
NAVIGABLE WATERS
35. This Agreement does not affect the public right of navigation.
EMERGENCIES AND NATURAL DISASTERS
36. Any Party may respond to an emergency or natural disaster on Crown
land or Tsawwassen Lands or the bodies of water immediately adjacent to
Tsawwassen Lands, if the Person with primary responsibility for
responding has not responded, or is unable to respond, in a timely way.
37. The Party responding will, if possible, notify the Person with
primary responsibility in advance of taking action but, in any case,
will notify that Person as soon as practicable after responding.
38. In the event of a provincial declaration of emergency or natural
disaster, access to Tsawwassen Roads, Local Roads and Local Boundary
Roads will be in accordance with Federal or Provincial Law.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 21
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7 |
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Appendices - Contents
|
Appendices - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
