





View Complete Statute



Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.


Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2




CHAPTER 11


NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT



SELF-GOVERNMENT


1.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation has the right to self-government, and the authority
to make laws, as set out in this Agreement.




RECOGNITION OF NISG̱A'A  LISIMS GOVERNMENT AND NISG̱A'A
VILLAGE GOVERNMENTS



2.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, as provided
for under the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, are the governments of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation and the Nisg̱a'a Villages, respectively.


3.
Except as may otherwise be agreed to by the relevant Parties in respect
of particular matters, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is responsible for
intergovernmental relations between the Nisg̱a'a Nation on the one hand,
and Canada or British Columbia, or both, on the other hand.


4.
The exercise of Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction and authority set out in
this Agreement will evolve over time.



LEGAL STATUS AND CAPACITY


5.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, is a separate and distinct
legal entity, with the capacity, rights, powers, and privileges of a
natural person, including to:

a. enter into contracts and agreements;

b. acquire and hold property or an interest in property, and sell or
otherwise dispose of that property or interest;

c. raise, spend, invest, or borrow money;
d. sue and be sued; and

e. do other things ancillary to the exercise of its rights, powers and
privileges.


6.
The rights, powers, and privileges of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, and of each
Nisg̱a'a Village, will be exercised in accordance with:

a. this Agreement;
b. the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and
c. Nisg̱a'a laws.

7.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will act through Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in
exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its
duties, functions, and obligations.


8.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village will act through its Nisg̱a'a Village Government in
exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its
duties, functions, and obligations.



NISG̱A'A CONSTITUTION


9.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will have a Nisg̱a'a Constitution, consistent with
this Agreement, which will:


a. provide for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village
Governments, including their duties, composition, and membership;


b. provide that this Agreement sets out the authority of Nisg̱a'a
Government to make laws;


c. assign to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments
the rights, powers, privileges, and responsibilities under this
Agreement that are not specifically assigned to Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government;


d. provide for the enactment of laws by Nisg̱a'a Government;


e. provide for challenging the validity of Nisg̱a'a laws;


f. provide for the creation, continuation, amalgamation, dissolution,
naming, or renaming of:

i. Nisg̱a'a Villages on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and
ii. Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals;

g. provide for Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals, or other means by which Nisg̱a'a
citizens residing outside of the Nass Area may participate in Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government;


h. provide for the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions;


i. provide for the role of the Nisg̱a'a elders,
Simgigat
and

Sigidimhaana
k

, in providing guidance and interpretation of the
Ayuuk
to Nisg̱a'a Government;


j. provide that in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between the
Nisg̱a'a Constitution and the provisions of any Nisg̱a'a law, the Nisg̱a'a
law is, to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict, of no force or
effect;


k. require that Nisg̱a'a Government be democratically accountable to
Nisg̱a'a citizens, and, in particular:


i. that elections for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and each Nisg̱a'a Village
Government be held at least every five years, and


ii. that, subject to residency, age, and other requirements set out in
the Nisg̱a'a Constitution or Nisg̱a'a law, all Nisg̱a'a citizens are
eligible to vote in Nisg̱a'a elections and to hold office in Nisg̱a'a
Government;


l. require a system of financial administration comparable to standards
generally accepted for governments in Canada, through which Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government will be financially accountable to Nisg̱a'a citizens,
and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments will be financially accountable to
Nisg̱a'a citizens of those Nisg̱a'a Villages;


m. require conflict of interest rules that are comparable to standards
generally accepted for governments in Canada;


n. provide conditions under which the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village may:


i. dispose of the whole of its estate or interest in any parcel of
Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, and


ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, create or dispose of any
lesser estate or interest in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee
Simple Lands;


o. recognize and protect rights and freedoms of Nisg̱a'a citizens;


p. provide that every Nisg̱a'a participant who is a Canadian citizen or
permanent resident of Canada is entitled to be a Nisg̱a'a citizen;


q. provide for Nisg̱a'a Government during the period from the effective
date until the date on which the office holders elected in the first
Nisg̱a'a elections take office;


r. provide for amendment of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and


s. include other provisions, as determined by the Nisg̱a'a Nation.


10.
The Nisg̱a'a Constitution, as approved in accordance with the
Ratification Chapter, comes into force on the effective date.


11.
The Nisg̱a'a Constitution will initially include an amending procedure
requiring that an amendment be approved by at least 70% of Nisg̱a'a
citizens voting in a referendum.



NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE


12.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government consists of elected members as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution.


13.
On the effective date, there are three Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals, as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution, known as:

a. Greater Vancouver Urban Local;
b. Terrace Urban Local; and
c. Prince Rupert/Port Edward Urban Local.

14.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government consists of the following members, as set out
in the Nisg̱a'a Constitution:


a. at least three officers elected by the Nisg̱a'a Nation in a general
election;


b. the elected members of the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments; and


c. at least one representative elected by the Nisg̱a'a citizens of each
Nisg̱a'a Urban Local.



ELECTIONS


15.
Elections for Nisg̱a'a Government will be held in accordance with the
Nisg̱a'a Constitution and Nisg̱a'a laws.



APPEAL AND REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS


16.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide appropriate procedures for the appeal or
review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions.


17.
The Supreme Court of British Columbia has jurisdiction in respect of
applications for judicial review of administrative decisions of Nisg̱a'a
Institutions exercising a statutory power of decision under Nisg̱a'a law,
but no application for judicial review of those decisions may be brought
until all procedures for appeal or review provided by Nisg̱a'a Government
and applicable to that decision have been exhausted.



REGISTER OF LAWS


18.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will:


a. maintain a public registry of Nisg̱a'a laws in the English language
and, at the discretion of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in the Nisg̱a'a
language;


b. provide Canada and British Columbia with a copy of a Nisg̱a'a law as
soon as practicable after that law is enacted; and


c. establish procedures for the coming into force and publication of
Nisg̱a'a laws.




RELATIONS WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT NISG̱A'A CITIZENS



19.
Nisg̱a'a Government will consult with individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens about
Nisg̱a'a Government decisions that directly and significantly affect
them.


20.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens may
participate in a Nisg̱a'a Public Institution, if the activities of that
Nisg̱a'a Public Institution directly and significantly affect them.


21.
The means of participation under paragraph 20 will be:


a. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the Nisg̱a'a
Public Institution in respect of activities that significantly and
directly affect them;


b. if the members of a Nisg̱a'a Public Institution are elected:


i. the ability to vote for or become members of the Nisg̱a'a Public
Institution, or


ii. a guaranteed number of members, with the right to vote, on the
Nisg̱a'a Public Institution; or

c. other comparable measures.

22.
Nisg̱a'a Government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily
resident within Nisg̱a'a Lands and who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens may avail
themselves of the appeal or review procedures referred to in paragraph
16.


23.
Nisg̱a'a Government may appoint individuals who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens
as members of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions.



TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS


24.
From the effective date until the office holders elected in the first
Nisg̱a'a elections take office:


a. the members and officers of the General Executive Council of the
Nisg̱a'a Tribal Council on the day immediately before the effective date
are the members of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in accordance with the
transition provisions of the Nisg̱a'a Constitution; and


b. the Chief Councillor and councillors of each of the Nisg̱a'a band
councils under the
Indian Act
on the day immediately before the effective date are the elected members
of the respective successor Nisg̱a'a Village Governments.


25.
The first elections for the officers of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, the
members of each of the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, and the Nisg̱a'a
Urban Local representatives to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, will be held
no later than six months after the effective date.


26.
The Parties acknowledge that it is desirable that the exercise of
Nisg̱a'a Government authority be introduced in an effective and orderly
manner.


27.
Before Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government first exercises law making authority in
respect of social services, health services, child and family services,
adoption, or pre-school to Grade 12 education, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
will give notice to Canada and British Columbia of the intended exercise
of authority.


28.
After Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has given notice under paragraph 27, at
the request of Canada or British Columbia, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
will consult or otherwise discuss with Canada or British Columbia, as
the case may be, in respect of:


a. any transfer of cases and related documentation from federal or
provincial institutions to Nisg̱a'a Institutions, including any
confidentiality and privacy considerations;


b. any transfer of assets from federal or provincial institutions to
Nisg̱a'a Institutions;


c. immunity of Nisg̱a'a Government employees providing services or
exercising authority under Nisg̱a'a laws;


d. any appropriate amendments to federal or provincial laws; and

e. other matters agreed to by the Parties.

29.
The Parties may negotiate agreements regarding any of the matters set
out in paragraph 28, but an agreement under this paragraph is not a
condition precedent to the exercise of law making authority by Nisg̱a'a
Government.


Amendment of Provincial Legislation


30.
British Columbia will consult with Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government before
amending a provincial law if:


a. this Agreement provides for Nisg̱a'a Government law making authority
in respect of the subject matter of the provincial law being amended;


b. Nisg̱a'a Government has made a law in respect of that subject matter;


c. the validity of the Nisg̱a'a law depends upon a comparison with the
provincial law being amended; and


d. the proposed amendment would result in the Nisg̱a'a law ceasing to be
valid.


31.
Consultations under paragraph 30 may include:


a. the nature and purpose of the proposed amendment to the provincial
law;


b. the anticipated date the proposed amendment will take effect;


c. any necessary changes to Nisg̱a'a law as a result of the amendment;
and

d. other matters agreed to by the Parties.


LEGISLATIVE JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY


General


32.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this Agreement and
the provisions of any Nisg̱a'a law, this Agreement prevails to the extent
of the inconsistency or conflict.


33.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, respectively,
have the principal authority, as set out in, and in accordance with,
this Agreement, in respect of Nisg̱a'a Government, Nisg̱a'a citizenship,
Nisg̱a'a culture, Nisg̱a'a language, Nisg̱a'a Lands, and Nisg̱a'a assets.


Nisg̱a'a Government


34.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the
administration, management and operation of Nisg̱a'a Government
,
including:


a. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions, including their
respective powers, duties, composition, and membership;


b. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification
of members, officials, employees, and appointees of Nisg̱a'a
Institutions;


c. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Corporations, but the registration or
incorporation of the Nisg̱a'a Corporations must be under federal or
provincial laws;


d. the delegation of Nisg̱a'a Government authority, but the authority to
make laws may be delegated only to a Nisg̱a'a Institution;


e. financial administration of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and
Nisg̱a'a Institutions; and

f. elections, by-elections, and referenda.

35.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the
administration, management, and operation of that Nisg̱a'a Village
Government
,
including:


a. the establishment of Nisg̱a'a Public Institutions of that Nisg̱a'a
Village Government, including their respective powers, duties,
composition, and membership;


b. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification
of members, officials, employees, and appointees of Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions referred to in subparagraph (a); and


c. the delegation of the Nisg̱a'a Village Government's authority, but the
authority to make laws may be delegated only to a Nisg̱a'a Institution.


36.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraphs 34 or 35 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


37.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the creation,
continuation, amalgamation, dissolution, naming, or renaming of:

a. Nisg̱a'a Villages on Nisg̱a'a Lands; and
b. Nisg̱a'a Urban Locals.

38.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 37 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Nisg̱a'a Citizenship


39.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of Nisg̱a'a
citizenship. The conferring of Nisg̱a'a citizenship does not:


a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, the
right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
, or any of the rights or benefits under the
Indian Act
; or


b. except as set out in this Agreement or in any federal or provincial
law, impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide
rights or benefits.


40.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 39 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Culture and Language


41.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws to preserve, promote, and
develop Nisg̱a'a culture and Nisg̱a'a language, including laws to
authorize or accredit the use, reproduction, and representation of
Nisg̱a'a cultural symbols and practices, and the teaching of Nisg̱a'a
language.


42.
Except as provided for by federal or provincial law, Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government jurisdiction under paragraph 41 to make laws in respect of
Nisg̱a'a culture and Nisg̱a'a language does not include jurisdiction to
make laws in respect of intellectual property, the official languages of
Canada or the prohibition of activities outside of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


43.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 41 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Nisg̱a'a Property in Nisg̱a'a Lands


44.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use and management of Nisg̱a'a Lands owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation;


b. the possession of Nisg̱a'a Lands owned by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, including the granting of
rights of possession in Nisg̱a'a Lands and any conditions or restrictions
on those rights;


c. the disposition of an estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands, including:


i. the disposition of the whole of an estate or interest,


ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, the creation or
disposition of any lesser estate or interest, and


iii. the creation of rights of way and covenants similar to those in
sections 218 and 219 of the
Land Title Act
;


d. the conditions on, and restrictions subject to which, the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation may create or dispose
of its estates or interests in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands;


e. the conditions or restrictions, to be established at the time of the
creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a Nation,
a Nisg̱a'a Village or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a
Lands, in respect of that and any subsequent disposition;


f. the reservation or exception of interests, rights, privileges, and
titles from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or Nisg̱a'a Corporation in Nisg̱a'a
Lands; and


g. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations in Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


45.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 44 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


46.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 44 (c) in respect of estates or interests
that are recognized and permitted by federal or provincial laws of
general application will be consistent with federal and provincial laws
of general application in respect of those estates or interests, other
than the provincial Torrens system and any federal land title or land
registry laws.



Regulation, Administration and Expropriation of Nisg̱a'a Lands



47.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use, management, planning, zoning, and development of Nisg̱a'a
Lands;


b. regulation, licensing, and prohibition of the operation on Nisg̱a'a
Lands of businesses, professions, and trades, including the imposition
of licence fees or other fees, other than laws in respect of the
accreditation, certification, or professional conduct of professions and
trades; and


c. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


48.
Each Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the matters
referred to in paragraph 47, to apply on their respective Nisg̱a'a
Village Lands.


49.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 47 or 48 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


50.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. subject to paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of the Land Title Chapter, the
establishment and operation of a land title or land registry system, in
respect of estates, interests, charges, encumbrances, conditions,
provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations on or in Nisg̱a'a
Lands, including the establishment of a requirement similar to
subsection 20 (1) of the
Land Title Act
;


b. designation of any parcel of Nisg̱a'a Lands as Nisg̱a'a Private Lands
or Nisg̱a'a Village Lands;


c. expropriation by Nisg̱a'a Government for public purposes and public
works, of estates, or interests in Nisg̱a'a Lands other than:


i. interests referred to in paragraphs 30 and 41 of the Lands Chapter to
which Nisg̱a'a Lands are subject on the effective date,


ii. subject to paragraphs 35 and 36 of the Lands Chapter, interests
referred to in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the Lands Chapter to which
Nisg̱a'a Lands are subject on the effective date,


iii. estates or interests expropriated by Canada in accordance with the
Lands Chapter, and


iv. rights of way acquired by British Columbia or a public utility in
accordance with the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter; and


d. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


51.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 50 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


52.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 45, 49 and 51, in the event of a conflict
between a Nisg̱a'a law and a federal law of general application in
respect of prospecting for, production of, refining, and handling of
uranium or other products capable of releasing atomic energy, the
federal law prevails to the extent of the conflict. Nothing in this
paragraph is intended to require the production of uranium or other
products capable of releasing atomic energy.


Nisg̱a'a Assets


53.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of:


a. the use, possession, and management of the assets, other than real
property, on Nisg̱a'a Lands of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and
Nisg̱a'a Corporations;


b. the imposition of conditions on, and restrictions subject to which,
Nisg̱a'a Government, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations may authorize the
disposition of the assets, other than real property, within Nisg̱a'a
Lands of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations;
and


c. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, and Nisg̱a'a Corporations in their
assets, other than real property, on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


54.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the matters
referred to in paragraph 53, to apply to its assets, other than real
property, on its Nisg̱a'a Village Lands.


55.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 53 or 54 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


56.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the use,
possession, and management of assets, located off of Nisg̱a'a Lands, of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation.


57.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the use,
possession, and management of assets of that Nisg̱a'a Village, located
off of Nisg̱a'a Lands.


58.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 56 or
57 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Public Order, Peace, and Safety


59.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on
Nisg̱a'a Lands, or on submerged lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than
actions, activities, or undertakings on submerged lands that are
authorized by the Crown, that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance,
a trespass, a danger to public health, or a threat to public order,
peace, or safety.


60.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the regulation,
control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on
the Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of that Nisg̱a'a Village, or on submerged lands
within those Nisg̱a'a Village Lands, other than actions, activities, or
undertakings on those submerged lands that are authorized by the Crown,
that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance, a trespass, a danger to
public health, or a threat to public order, peace, or safety.


61.
For greater certainty, Nisg̱a'a Government authority does not include
authority in respect of criminal law.


62.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 59 or
60 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Duty to Accommodate


63.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws prescribing the aspects of
Nisg̱a'a culture, including aspects such as cultural leave from
employment, to be accommodated in accordance with federal and provincial
laws of general application by employers and employees' organizations
that have the duty to accommodate employees under those federal and
provincial laws.


Industrial Relations


64.
If, in any industrial relations matter or industrial relations
proceeding involving individuals employed on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than a
matter or proceeding arising from a collective agreement, an issue
arises in respect of this Agreement or Nisg̱a'a culture, the matter or
proceeding will not be concluded until notice has been served on Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government in accordance with the rules for giving notice that
govern that matter or proceeding.


65.
In any industrial relations matter or industrial relations proceeding to
which paragraph 64 applies, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make
representations concerning this Agreement or the effect of the matter or
proceeding on Nisg̱a'a culture.


66.
Any representations of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in an industrial
relations matter or industrial relations proceeding before a board,
commission, or other tribunal under paragraph 65 will be in accordance
with the rules in respect of the industrial relations matter or
proceeding and will not affect the ability of the board, commission, or
other tribunal to control its process.


67.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 64 to 66 do not affect federal or
provincial jurisdiction in respect of industrial relations, employment
standards, and occupational health and safety.


Human Resource Development


68.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government delivery and
administration of federal or provincial services or programs that are
intended to:


a. improve the employability or skill level of the labour force and
persons destined for the labour force; or


b. create new employment or work experience opportunities.


Buildings, Structures, and Public Works


69.
Subject to the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government may make laws in respect of the design, construction,
maintenance, repair, and demolition of buildings, structures, and public
works on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


70.
Subject to the Roads and Rights of Way Chapter, a Nisg̱a'a Village
Government may make laws in respect of the matters referred to in
paragraph 69, to apply on the Nisg̱a'a Village Lands of that Nisg̱a'a
Village.


71.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 69 or
70 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Traffic and Transportation


72.
A Nisg̱a'a Village Government may make laws in respect of the regulation
of traffic and transportation on Nisg̱a'a Roads within its village, to
the same extent as municipal governments have authority in respect of
the regulation of traffic and transportation in municipalities in
British Columbia.


73.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the regulation of
traffic and transportation on Nisg̱a'a Roads, other than Nisg̱a'a Roads
within Nisg̱a'a villages, to the same extent as municipal governments
have authority in respect of the regulation of traffic and
transportation in municipalities in British Columbia.


74.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 72 or
73 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal
or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


Solemnization of Marriages


75.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of solemnization of
marriages within British Columbia, including prescribing conditions
under which individuals appointed by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may
solemnize marriages.


76.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 75 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


77.
Individuals appointed by Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to solemnize
marriages:


a. will be registered by British Columbia as persons authorized to
solemnize marriages; and


b. have the authority to solemnize marriages under British Columbia law
and Nisg̱a'a law, and have all the associated rights, duties and
responsibilities of a marriage commissioner under the provincial
Marriage Act
.


Social Services


78.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the provision of
social services by Nisg̱a'a Government to Nisg̱a'a citizens, other than
the licensing and regulation of facility-based services off Nisg̱a'a
Lands.


79.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 78 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


80.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 78, at the
request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach
agreements in respect of exchange of information, avoidance of double
payments, and related matters.


81.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for administration and delivery by Nisg̱a'a Government
of federal and provincial social services and programs for all
individuals residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands. Those agreements will include
a requirement that Nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not Nisg̱a'a
citizens be treated equally in the provision of those social services
and programs.


Health Services


82.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of health services on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.


83.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 82 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


84.
Notwithstanding paragraph 83, in the event of an inconsistency or
conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law determining the organization and
structure for the delivery of health services on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and a
federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict.


85.
At the request of any Party, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to
reach agreements for Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government delivery and
administration of federal and provincial health services and programs
for all individuals residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands. Those agreements will
include a requirement that Nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not
Nisg̱a'a citizens be treated equally in the provision of those health
services and programs.


Aboriginal Healers


86.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the authorization
or licensing of individuals who practice as aboriginal healers on
Nisg̱a'a Lands, but, this authority to make laws does not include the
authority to regulate products or substances that are regulated under
federal or provincial laws of general application.


87.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 86 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


88.
Any Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 86 will include measures in respect of
competence, ethics and quality of practice that are reasonably required
to protect the public.


Child and Family Services


89.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of child and family
services on Nisg̱a'a Lands, provided that those laws include standards
comparable to provincial standards intended to ensure the safety and
well-being of children and families.


90.
Notwithstanding any laws made under paragraph 89
,
if there is an emergency in which a child on Nisg̱a'a Lands is at risk,
British Columbia may act to protect the child and, in those
circumstances, unless British Columbia and Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
otherwise agree, British Columbia will refer the matter back to Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government after the emergency.


91.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 89 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


92.
At the request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
and British Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in
respect of child and family services for Nisg̱a'a children who do not
reside on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


93.
Laws of general application in respect of reporting of child abuse apply
on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Child Custody


94.
Nisg̱a'a Government has standing in any judicial proceedings in which
custody of a Nisg̱a'a child is in dispute, and the court will consider
any evidence and representations in respect of Nisg̱a'a laws and customs
in addition to any other matters it is required by law to consider.


95.
The participation of Nisg̱a'a Government in proceedings referred to in
paragraph 94 will be in accordance with the applicable rules of court
and will not affect the court's ability to control its process.


Adoption


96.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of the adoption of
Nisg̱a'a children, provided that those laws:


a. expressly provide that the best interests of the child be the
paramount consideration in determining whether an adoption will take
place; and


b. require Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government to provide British Columbia and
Canada with records of all adoptions occurring under Nisg̱a'a laws.


97.
Nisg̱a'a law applies to the adoption of a Nisg̱a'a child residing off
Nisg̱a'a Lands if:


a. the parent, parents, or guardian of the child consent to the
application of Nisg̱a'a law to the adoption; or


b. a court dispenses with the requirement for the consent referred to in
subparagraph (a), in accordance with the criteria that would be used by
that court in an application to dispense with the requirement for a
parent or guardian's consent to an adoption.


98.
If the Director of Child Protection, or a successor to that position,
becomes the guardian of a Nisg̱a'a child, the Director will:


a. provide notice to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government that the Director is the
guardian of the Nisg̱a'a child;


b. provide notice to Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government of any plan for the
Nisg̱a'a child's care that could result in an application to adopt the
Nisg̱a'a child; and


c. consent to the application of Nisg̱a'a law to the adoption of that
child, unless it is determined under provincial law that there are good
reasons to believe it is in the best interests of the child to withhold
consent.


99.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 96 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


Pre-school to Grade 12 Education


100.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of pre-school to
grade 12 education on Nisg̱a'a Lands of Nisg̱a'a citizens, including the
teaching of Nisg̱a'a language and culture, provided that those laws
include provisions for:


a. curriculum, examination, and other standards that permit transfers of
students between school systems at a similar level of achievement and
permit admission of students to the provincial post-secondary education
systems;


b. certification of teachers, other than for the teaching of Nisg̱a'a
language and culture, by:


i. a Nisg̱a'a Institution, in accordance with standards comparable to
standards applicable to individuals who teach in public or independent
schools in British Columbia, or


ii. a provincial body having the responsibility to certify individuals
who teach in public or independent schools in British Columbia; and


c. certification of teachers, for the teaching of Nisg̱a'a language and
culture, by a Nisg̱a'a Institution, in accordance with standards
established under Nisg̱a'a law.


101.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 100 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


102.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 100, at the
request of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or British Columbia, those Parties
will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements concerning the provision
of Kindergarten to Grade 12 education to:


a. persons other than Nisg̱a'a citizens residing within Nisg̱a'a Lands;
and

b. Nisg̱a'a citizens residing off Nisg̱a'a Lands.

Post-Secondary Education


103.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of post-secondary
education within Nisg̱a'a Lands, including:


a. the establishment of post-secondary institutions that have the
ability to grant degrees, diplomas or certificates;


b. the determination of the curriculum for post-secondary institutions
established under Nisg̱a'a law;


c. the accreditation and certification of individuals who teach or
research Nisg̱a'a language and culture; and


d. the provision for and coordination of all adult education programs.


104.
Nisg̱a'a laws in respect of post-secondary education will include
standards comparable to provincial standards in respect of:


a. institutional organizational structure and accountability;

b. admission standards and policies;

c. instructors' qualifications and certification;


d. curriculum standards sufficient to permit transfers of students
between provincial post-secondary institutions; and


e. requirements for degrees, diplomas, or certificates.


105.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under
paragraph 103 and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails
to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


106.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may operate and provide post-secondary
education services outside Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with federal and
provincial laws.


107.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may prescribe the terms and conditions under
which Nisg̱a'a post-secondary institutions may enter into arrangements
with other institutions or British Columbia to provide post-secondary
education outside Nisg̱a'a Lands.


Gambling and Gaming


108.
British Columbia will not licence or approve gambling or gaming
facilities on Nisg̱a'a Lands other than in accordance with any terms and
conditions established by Nisg̱a'a Government that are not inconsistent
with federal and provincial laws of general application.


109.
Any change in federal or provincial legislation or policy that permits
the involvement of aboriginal peoples in the regulation of gambling and
gaming will, with the consent of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, apply to
Nisg̱a'a Government.


Intoxicants


110.
Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws in respect of the prohibition of, and
the terms and conditions for, the sale, exchange, possession, or
consumption of intoxicants on Nisg̱a'a Lands.


111.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 110 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.


112.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, its agents and assignees have:


a. the exclusive right to sell liquor on Nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance
with laws of general application; and


b. the right to purchase liquor from the British Columbia Liquor
Distribution Branch, or its successors, in accordance with federal and
provincial laws of general application.


113.
British Columbia will approve an application made by or with the consent
of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government for a license, permit, or other authority
to sell liquor on Nisg̱a'a Lands, if the application meets provincial
regulatory requirements.


114.
British Columbia will authorize persons designated by Nisg̱a'a
Government, in accordance with provincial laws of general application,
to approve or deny applications for special occasion or temporary
permits to sell liquor.


Devolution of Cultural Property


115.
In paragraphs 116 to 119,
"cultural property"
means:


a. ceremonial regalia and similar personal property associated with a
Nisg̱a'a chief or clan; and


b. other personal property that has cultural significance to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation.


116.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of devolution of the
cultural property of a Nisg̱a'a citizen who dies intestate. In the event
of an inconsistency or conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under this
paragraph and a federal or provincial law, the Nisg̱a'a law prevails to
the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.


117.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has standing in any judicial proceeding in
which:


a. the validity of the will of a Nisg̱a'a citizen; or


b. the devolution of the cultural property of a Nisg̱a'a citizen


is at issue, including any proceedings under wills variation
legislation.


118.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may commence an action under wills variation
legislation in British Columbia in respect of the will of a Nisg̱a'a
citizen that provides for a devolution of cultural property.


119.
In a proceeding to which paragraph 116, 117 or 118 applies, the court
will consider, among other matters, any evidence or representations in
respect of Nisg̱a'a laws and customs dealing with the devolution of
cultural property.


120.
The participation of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in proceedings referred
to in paragraphs 116 to 118 will be in accordance with the applicable
rules of court and will not affect the court's ability to control its
process.


Other Areas of Legislative Jurisdiction


121.
In addition to the laws that Nisg̱a'a Government may make under this
Chapter, Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws in respect of matters within
Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction as set out in, and in accordance with,
this Agreement.



EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS


122.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, with respect to Nisg̱a'a Lands, has the
rights, powers, duties, and obligations of a local authority under
federal and provincial legislation in respect of emergency preparedness
and emergency measures.


123.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of its rights,
powers, duties, and obligations under paragraph 122. In the event of a
conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or
provincial law of general application, the federal or provincial law
prevails to the extent of the conflict.


124.
For greater certainty, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may declare a state of
local emergency, and exercise the powers of a local authority in respect
of local emergencies in accordance with federal and provincial laws in
respect of emergency measures, but any declaration and any exercise of
those powers is subject to the authority of Canada and British Columbia
set out in those federal and provincial laws.


125.
Nothing in this Agreement affects the authority of:

a. Canada to declare a national emergency; or

b. British Columbia to declare a provincial emergency


in accordance with federal and provincial laws of general application.



OTHER MATTERS


126.
For greater certainty, the authority of Nisg̱a'a Government to make laws
in respect of a subject matter as set out in this Agreement includes the
authority to make laws and to do other things as may be necessarily
incidental to exercising its authority.


127.
Nisg̱a'a Government may make laws and do other things that may be
necessary to enable each of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, and
Nisg̱a'a Government to exercise its rights, or to carry out its
responsibilities, under this Agreement.


128.
Nisg̱a'a Government may provide for the imposition of penalties,
including fines, restitution, and imprisonment for the violation of
Nisg̱a'a laws, within the limits set out for summary conviction offences
in the
Criminal Code of Canada
or the British Columbia
Offence Act
.


129.
Nisg̱a'a Government may adopt federal or provincial laws in respect of
matters within Nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction as set out in this
Agreement.



NISG̱A'A GOVERNMENT LIABILITY


Elected Members of Nisg̱a'a Government


130.
No action for damages lies, or may be instituted against, an elected
member, or former elected member, of Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government or of a
Nisg̱a'a Village Government:


a. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by or on
behalf of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Village Government, while that person is, or was,
an elected member;


b. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of a duty, or the exercise of a power, of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a
Village Government, while that person is, or was, an elected member;


c. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by that
person in the performance, or intended performance, of the person's duty
or the exercise of the person's power; or


d. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended
performance, of that person's duty or exercise of that person's power.


131.
Subparagraphs 130 (c) and (d) do not provide a defence if:


a. the person has, in relation to the conduct that is the subject matter
of the action, been guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or malicious
or wilful misconduct; or

b. the cause of action is libel or slander.

132.
Subparagraphs 130(c) and (d) do not absolve the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village from vicarious liability arising out of a tort committed
by an elected member or former elected member of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government, or the Nisg̱a'a Village Government for which the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village would have been liable had those
subparagraphs not been in effect.


Nisg̱a'a Nation and Nisg̱a'a Villages


133.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, and each Nisg̱a'a Village, has the protections,
immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and
rights provided to a municipality under Part 7 of the
Municipal Act
.


134.
Subject to paragraph 1 of the Access Chapter, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
each Nisg̱a'a Village has the protections, immunities, limitations in
respect of liability, remedies over, and rights provided to a
municipality under the
Occupiers Liability Act
, and, for greater certainty, has those protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and rights, in
respect of a road on Nisg̱a'a Lands used by the public, or by industrial
or resource users, if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the Nisg̱a'a Village is the
occupier of that road.


Nisg̱a'a Governments


135.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, and each Nisg̱a'a Village Government, has the
protections, immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies
over, and rights provided to the council of a municipality under Part 7
of the
Municipal Act
.



Writ of Execution Against Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village



136.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 133 and 135, a writ of execution against the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village must not be issued without leave of
the Supreme Court of British Columbia, which may:


a. permit the issue of the writ at a time and on conditions the court
considers proper; or


b. refuse to permit the writ to be issued, or suspend action under the
writ, on terms and conditions the court thinks proper or expedient.


137.
In determining how it will proceed under paragraph 136, the court must
have regard to:


a. any reputed insolvency of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or Nisg̱a'a Village;


b. any security afforded to the person entitled to the judgment by the
registration of the judgment;


c. the delivery of programs or services by the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
Nisg̱a'a Village that are not provided by municipalities in British
Columbia, and the funding of those programs or services; and


d. the immunities from seizure of assets of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or the
Nisg̱a'a Village as set out in this Agreement.


Nisg̱a'a Public Officers


138.
A Nisg̱a'a public officer has the protections, immunities, limitations in
respect of liability, and rights provided to a municipal public officer
under Part 7 of the
Municipal Act
.


139.
Notwithstanding paragraph 138, except as may be otherwise provided under
federal or provincial law, a Nisg̱a'a public officer does not have
protections, immunities, or limitations in respect of liability, in
respect of the provision of:


a. a service, if no persons delivering reasonably similar programs or
services under federal or provincial laws have protections, immunities,
limitations in respect of liability, or rights under federal or
provincial laws; or


b. a program or service of the Nisg̱a'a Court, Nisg̱a'a Police Board, or
Nisg̱a'a Police Service, except as provided for in the Administration of
Justice Chapter.


140.
The Inspector of Municipalities for British Columbia will not
unreasonably withhold consent to the approval of the documents of
incorporation of a Nisg̱a'a Corporation if the principal function of the
Nisg̱a'a Corporation is to provide public programs or services reasonably
similar to those provided by federal, provincial, or municipal
governments, rather than to engage in commercial activities.


141.
British Columbia will consult with Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government in respect
of any change to provincial law that would affect the protections,
immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and
rights referred to in paragraphs 133, 134, 135, or 138 to the extent and
in the manner that it consults with municipalities.



OTHER PROVINCES AND TERRITORIES


142.
Notwithstanding paragraph 4 of the General Provisions Chapter, this
Agreement is not intended to bind provinces, other than British
Columbia, or territories, on matters within their jurisdiction without
their consent.



Contents
|



Sections 1-70

|



Schedule - Table of Contents

|


Preamble
|


Chapter 1
|


Chapter 2
|


Chapter 3
|


Chapter 4
|


Chapter 5
|


Chapter 6
|


Chapter 7
|


Chapter 8
|


Chapter 9
|



Chapter 10

|

Chapter 11 |


Chapter 12

|



Chapter 13

|



Chapter 14

|



Chapter 15

|



Chapter 16

|



Chapter 17

|



Chapter 18

|



Chapter 19

|



Chapter 20

|



Chapter 21

|



Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands

|



Appendix - Contents

|



Appendix - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M





