





View Complete Statute



Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.


Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2




CHAPTER 15


FISCAL RELATIONS



DEFINITIONS


1.
In this Chapter and in the Taxation Chapter:


"capital transfer"
means an amount paid by Canada or British Columbia under the Capital
Transfer and Negotiation Loan Repayment Chapter;


"Income Tax Act"
means the
Income Tax Act
, S.C. 1985 (5th Supp.) c. 1;



"Income Tax Act (British Columbia)"

means the
Income Tax Act
, RSBC 1996, c. 215;


"Nisg̱a'a capital"
means all land, cash, and other assets transferred to, or recognized as
owned by, the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village under this Agreement,
except land added to Nisg̱a'a Lands under paragraph 9 or 11 of the Lands
Chapter;



"Nisg̱a'a capital finance authority"

means an authority for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a Nation and all Nisg̱a'a
Villages, established in accordance with a fiscal financing agreement,
to enable the financing of capital projects of the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village on Nisg̱a'a Lands, and operated in accordance with the
most recent fiscal financing agreement;


"Nisg̱a'a exempt corporation"
means a corporation, other than a Nisg̱a'a government corporation, in
which the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village has a direct or indirect
interest as a shareholder, that is exempt from tax on its taxable income
under laws of Canada or British Columbia;



"Nisg̱a'a government corporation"

means any corporation, commission or association, all of the shares
(except directors' qualifying shares) or capital of which belong to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or any
combination thereof, and for this purpose where, at any time, any shares
or capital of a corporation, commission or association belong, or are
deemed by this paragraph to belong, to another corporation, a
partnership, or a trust that is not a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust,
("intermediary"), those shares or that capital will be deemed to belong
to each shareholder, partner or beneficiary, as the case may be, of the
intermediary, proportionate to the relative fair market values of their
respective interests in that intermediary;


"Nisg̱a'a settlement trust"
means any trust having the following characteristics:

a. the trust is resident in Canada,

b. the beneficiaries of the trust are limited to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, any
Nisg̱a'a Village, another Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, all Nisg̱a'a citizens,
all Nisg̱a'a citizens in any Nisg̱a'a Village, or any registered charity
or non-profit organization, within the meaning of the
Income Tax Act
, that in the reasonable opinion of the trustees directly or indirectly
benefits one or more Nisg̱a'a citizens, or any combination of those
entities and persons,


c. the investment of the funds of the trust is restricted to:


i. investment instruments that are described as qualified investments
for a trust governed by a registered retirement savings plan within the
meaning of section 146 of the
Income Tax Act
or in any other investments that may be agreed upon from time to time by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, Canada and British Columbia,


ii. loans to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village,
or a Nisg̱a'a government corporation at a rate of interest equal to the
rate prescribed under regulation 4301(c) of the
Income Tax Act
in effect at the time the loan was made or last renewed,


iii. investments in a share of a Nisg̱a'a government corporation where
the average annual rate of dividends on that share over any five year
period cannot exceed the rate prescribed under regulation 4301 (c) of
the
Income Tax Act
at the beginning of that period, and if the amount receivable on
redemption of the share or on liquidation of the corporation is limited
to the amount of the consideration for which the share was originally
issued, and


iv. low interest or interest free loans to a Nisg̱a'a citizen, or a
partnership or trust in which Nisg̱a'a citizens hold all the interests as
partners or beneficiaries, where the purpose of the loan is to assist
the borrower to:


A. acquire, construct or renovate a residential property for their own
habitation in British Columbia,


B. attend courses to further their own education, technical or
vocational skills, or attend courses in native studies, culture or
language programs, or


C. acquire funding for purposes of carrying on a business on Nisg̱a'a
Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands, where the borrower is unable to
borrow from ordinary commercial lenders at normal commercial rates,


where, at the time the loan was made,
bona fide
arrangements were made for repayment of the loan within a reasonable
period of time,


d. the trust is not permitted to carry on a business as a proprietor or
member of a partnership, or acquire any beneficial interest in a trust
engaged in a business where one or more of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a
Village, a Nisg̱a'a government corporation, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust or
a Nisg̱a'a citizen, either alone or in combination, holds more than 10%
of all of the beneficial interests in the trust,


e. the trust does not borrow money except as required to finance the
acquisition of qualified investments or to carry out its operations,


f. contributions to the trust are limited to contributions received from
the Nisg̱a'a Nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the
Capital Transfer and Negotiation Loan Repayment Chapter or amounts
received from another Nisg̱a'a settlement trust where substantially all
of the funds of that contributing trust reasonably can be considered to
have been derived from a contribution to a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the
Financial Transfers Chapter and income and gains derived therefrom, and


g. the trust is not permitted to make any distributions other than to
one or more beneficiaries in accordance with the trust, or to another
Nisg̱a'a settlement trust; and


"person"
includes an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a trust, an
unincorporated association or other entity or government or any agency
or political subdivision thereof, and their heirs, executors,
administrators and other legal representatives.



INTERPRETATION


2.
If a principle in paragraph 16, or in an own source revenue agreement,
applies in respect of a Nisg̱a'a exempt corporation, the own source
revenue capacity that results:


a. will be reduced proportionately to fully account for the direct or
indirect ownership interests in the corporation of persons other than
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a government
corporations, and Nisg̱a'a settlement trusts; and


b. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, or any combination of
them, cannot cause a distribution by the corporation, will be taken into
account only at the time, and to the extent, that a distribution is made
to the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a government
corporation.



FISCAL FINANCING AGREEMENTS


3.
Every five years, or at other intervals if the Parties agree, the
Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a fiscal
financing agreement by which funding will be provided to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation to enable the provision of agreed-upon public programs and
services to Nisg̱a'a citizens and, where applicable, non-Nisg̱a'a
occupants of Nisg̱a'a Lands, at levels reasonably comparable to those
generally prevailing in northwest British Columbia.


4.
A fiscal financing agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land
claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal
or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


5.
The recognition of the legislative authority of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments does not create or imply any
funding or financial obligation for Canada, British Columbia, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, or a Nisg̱a'a Village.


6.
Nisg̱a'a citizens are eligible to participate in programs established by
Canada or British Columbia and to receive public services from Canada or
British Columbia, in accordance with general criteria established for
those programs or services from time to time, to the extent that the
Nisg̱a'a Nation has not assumed responsibility for those programs or
public services under a fiscal financing agreement.


7.
The Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in respect of
grants, between them,
in lieu
of property taxes.


8.
The funding for the Nisg̱a'a Nation and Nisg̱a'a Villages is a shared
responsibility of the Parties and it is the shared objective of the
Parties that, where feasible, the reliance of the Nisg̱a'a Nation and
Nisg̱a'a Villages on transfers will be reduced over time.


9.
In negotiating fiscal financing agreements, the Parties will take into
account, among other things:


a. costs necessary to establish and operate Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government
and Nisg̱a'a Village Governments, and agreed-upon Nisg̱a'a Public
Institutions and the Nisg̱a'a Court;


b. efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of public programs and
services;

c. location and accessibility of Nisg̱a'a Lands;

d. population and demographic characteristics of persons receiving
agreed-upon public programs and services;


e. other funding or support in respect of agreed-upon public programs or
services provided to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village by Canada
or British Columbia;


f. the level, type and condition of agreed-upon public works and
utilities within Nisg̱a'a Lands;


g. major maintenance and replacement of assets identified in and funded
according to Schedule C to the first fiscal financing agreement, or
other agreed-upon community or health capital assets;


h. necessary training requirements for agreed-upon public programs and
services;


i. the desirability of reasonably stable, predictable and flexible
funding arrangements;


j. the jurisdictions, authorities and obligations of Nisg̱a'a Lisims
Government and the Nisg̱a'a Village Governments;


k. the authorities and obligations of, and the public programs and
services for which responsibility is assumed or is to be assumed by, the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village;


l. prevailing fiscal policies of Canada and British Columbia;

m. Nisg̱a'a cultural values; and

n. Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity as determined under an own
source revenue agreement or, in the absence of an own source revenue
agreement, under this Chapter.


10.
The Parties will address the following, among other things, in fiscal
financing agreements:


a. procedures for negotiating the next fiscal financing agreement;


b. procedures for assuming or transferring responsibility for the
provision of agreed -upon programs and services;


c. procedures for funding, and assuming or transferring responsibility
for, the provision of additional programs and services during the term
of the fiscal financing agreement;

d. costs of emergencies and of fire suppression;
e. payment procedures;
f. dispute resolution; and
g. information exchange.

11.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the first fiscal financing agreement
will come into effect on the effective date.


12.
If the Parties do not reach a further fiscal financing agreement by the
expiry date of a fiscal financing agreement, the fiscal financing
agreement will continue in effect for two years from its original expiry
date, or for any other period that the Parties may agree while they
attempt to reach a further fiscal financing agreement.


13.
Any amounts required for the purposes of a fiscal financing agreement
will be paid out of appropriations as may be made by the Parliament of
Canada or the Legislature of British Columbia for those purposes.



OWN SOURCE REVENUE AGREEMENTS


14.
Every 10 years, or at other intervals if the Parties agree, the Parties
will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on an own source revenue
agreement under which Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity, and
the manner and extent to which that capacity will be taken into account
under fiscal financing agreements, will be determined.


15.
An own source revenue agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land
claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal
or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
.


16.
In determining Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity, the Parties
will apply the following principles:


a. the own source revenue capacity in respect of any source will not be
taken into account so as to unreasonably reduce the incentive for the
Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village to raise revenues from that source
or to occupy any tax room that other Canadian governments may have made
available by agreement with the Nisg̱a'a Nation;


b. there should be a fair basis of comparison between the own source
revenue capacity in respect of a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust and the
additional tax revenue that Canadian governments would have received if
the income and capital gains, net of losses, of the trust were earned or
realized in equal shares by all Nisg̱a'a citizens, instead of by the
trust, and if all Nisg̱a'a citizens were resident in British Columbia;


c. the own source revenue capacity in respect of each tax will not
exceed the sum of:


i. the value of any tax room made available in respect of the tax by
Canada or British Columbia under an agreement referred to in
subparagraph 3 (b) of the Taxation Chapter, or other agreement with the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, and


ii. where the tax is similar to a tax generally imposed by local
authorities in British Columbia:


A. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village is taxing only Nisg̱a'a
citizens, the amount by which the revenues derived by the Nisg̱a'a Nation
or the Nisg̱a'a Village from the tax exceed the amount, if any, included
in subparagraph 16 (c) (i), or


B. if there is a delegated taxation authority in respect of the tax,
under an agreement referred to in subparagraph 3 (a) of the Taxation
Chapter, the amount by which the tax capacity in respect of all persons
over which Nisg̱a'a Government has taxation power or authority exceeds
the amount included in subparagraph 16 (c) (i), and for this purpose,
tax capacity will be determined on a fair and reasonable basis, taking
into account the circumstances in Nisg̱a'a communities and in similar
communities in northwest British Columbia;


d. the own source revenue capacity in respect of commercial and
investment activities, including exploitation of a natural resource, of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, the Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a government
corporations, Nisg̱a'a exempt corporations, and corporations without
share capital established and operated for the benefit of the Nisg̱a'a
Nation or a Nisg̱a'a Village, or any combination of them, will be
reasonably comparable to, and not exceed, the additional revenues that
other Canadian governments would have from taxation of those entities
if:


i. they were Canadian private enterprises subject to taxation under
federal and provincial laws of general application,


ii. the commercial and investment activities were their only activities,


iii. their only properties were properties related to the activities,
and


iv. those properties were owned by them as private persons and not as
governments; and


e. to the extent that a base is used in the calculation of a tax paid or
payable by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a government
corporation, a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or a Nisg̱a'a exempt
corporation, it will not be used as a base in the calculation of Nisg̱a'a
Nation own source revenue capacity in place of that tax.


17.
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity in respect of any source not
referred to in paragraph 16 will be taken into account in a manner that
does not unreasonably reduce the incentive for the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a
Nisg̱a'a Village to raise revenues from that source.


18.
There is no Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity in respect of:


a. proceeds from the sale of Nisg̱a'a Lands or Nisg̱a'a Fee Simple Lands;

b. a capital transfer;

c. the capital of a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to the extent that
a capital gain results in own source revenue capacity in accordance with
the principle in subparagraph 16 (b);


d. a distribution of capital from a Nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to
the extent that a distribution to a Nisg̱a'a citizen results in a tax
that is included in the determination of own source revenue capacity in
accordance with the principle in subparagraph 16 (c);


e. the Nisg̱a'a capital finance authority, including any income, gains or
property of the authority, and any distribution by the authority, except
to the extent that a distribution is included as own source revenue
capacity in respect of a commercial activity of the recipient of the
distribution; and


f. a transfer by a corporation to the Nisg̱a'a Nation or a Nisg̱a'a
Village, to the extent that the transfer represents a distribution out
of income that has already been taken into account in determining
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity.


19.
Nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity will be phased in over a 12
year period as provided in the own source revenue agreement.


20.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the first own source revenue
agreement will come into effect on the effective date.



OWN SOURCE REVENUE ADMINISTRATION


21.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws that impose an obligation on the
Nisg̱a'a Nation, Nisg̱a'a Villages, Nisg̱a'a settlement trusts, or Nisg̱a'a
government corporations, in respect of the determination, adjustment,
payment, or collection of amounts, to enable the Nisg̱a'a Nation to
recover from those entities amounts in respect of Nisg̱a'a Nation own
source revenue capacity.


22.
In the event of a conflict between a Nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 21 and
a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or
provincial law will prevail to the extent of the conflict.



Contents
|



Sections 1-70

|



Schedule - Table of Contents

|


Preamble
|


Chapter 1
|


Chapter 2
|


Chapter 3
|


Chapter 4
|


Chapter 5
|


Chapter 6
|


Chapter 7
|


Chapter 8
|


Chapter 9
|



Chapter 10

|



Chapter 11

|



Chapter 12

|



Chapter 13

|



Chapter 14

|

Chapter 15 |


Chapter 16

|



Chapter 17

|



Chapter 18

|



Chapter 19

|



Chapter 20

|



Chapter 21

|



Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands

|



Appendix - Contents

|



Appendix - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M





