Occupational Health and Safety Regulation
Workers Compensation Act
Table 5-3: Provision and location of emergency washing equipment
High risk
Moderate risk
Low risk
Eye
Equipment
Tempered, continuous flow eyewash facility with a minimum duration
of 15 minutes (or more if required by the nature of the material).
Tempered, continuous flow eyewash facility with a minimum duration
of 15 minutes.
Effective means to flush the eyes.
Location
Within 5 seconds walking distance of the hazard area, but no
further than 6 m (20 ft). For high risk corrosive gases
such as ammonia or chlorine, the facilities must not be located in
the gas storage or use area, but rather, adjacent to it.
Within 10 seconds walking distance of the hazard area, but no
further than 30 m (100 ft).
May be located further than 30 m, provided that
(a) a supplementary eyewash facility such as a personal eyewash
unit or a non-tempered drench hose is located within 10 seconds
walking distance of the hazard area but no further than 30 m, and
(b) first aid services are maintained to start treatment of an
affected worker within 5 minutes of the contact.
Within 10 seconds walking distance of the hazard area but no
further than 30 m (100 ft).
Skin
Equipment
Tempered, continuous flow emergency shower facility with a minimum
duration of 15 minutes (or more if required by the nature of the
material).
Tempered, continuous flow emergency shower facility with a minimum
duration of 15 minutes.
Emergency flushing equipment, such as a non-tempered drench hose.
Location
Same location criteria as for high risk eyewash facility except
that the shower may be located further than 6 m if
(a) a supplementary emergency washing facility such as a
non-tempered drench hose is located within 5 seconds walking
distance of the hazard area but no further than 6 m, and
(b) a tempered shower facility is available within the building to
start emergency washing within 5 minutes of the contact.
Same location criteria as for moderate risk eyewash facility
except that the supplementary emergency washing facility for
locations beyond 30 m must be a unit such as non-tempered
drench hose.
Same location criteria as for low risk eyewash facility.
