View Complete Statute
Despite the above date, the Schedule to the Act, including the Map of
Nisg̱a'a Lands and the Appendices, is current to May 11, 2000. See
"Amending Agreements" for amendments to the Schedule.
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement Act
[SBC 1999] CHAPTER 2
CHAPTER 5
FOREST RESOURCES
DEFINITIONS
1.
In this Chapter and in Appendix H:
"agreement under the
Forest Act
"
means a major licence or timber sale licence that, before the effective
date, provided for the harvesting of timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands;
"former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves"
means those lands within Nisg̱a'a Lands that were Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves
on the day before the effective date as identified in Appendix A-4, and
all Category A lands;
"forest practices legislation"
means the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
, the
Forest Act
, or any regulation under those Acts;
"forest practices"
means timber harvesting and related activities, including silviculture,
and road construction, modification, maintenance, and deactivation;
"forest standards"
means the performance requirements or constraints associated with a
forest practice;
"Forestry Transition Committee"
means the committee established under paragraph 32 of this Chapter;
"licence"
means an agreement issued by British Columbia, in the nature of a forest
licence or a timber sale licence, that provides for the harvesting of
timber on Nisg̱a'a Lands during the transition period;
"Nisg̱a'a Contractor"
means a full phase logging contractor whose operations and direction are
effectively controlled by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen;
"non-timber forest resources"
means all forest resources other than timber or timber resources;
"timber"
or
"timber resources"
means trees, whether living, standing, dead, fallen, limbed, bucked, or
peeled;
"transition period"
means the five year period commencing on the effective date; and
"transition year"
means a one year period commencing on the effective date, or any
anniversary of the effective date, within the transition period.
Interpretation
2.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, words and expressions used in
this Chapter and in Appendix H that are not defined in this Agreement
have the meaning given to them in forest practices legislation.
OWNERSHIP OF RESOURCES
3.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation owns all forest resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
4.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government has the exclusive authority to determine,
collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in
respect of:
a. non-timber forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands;
b. timber resources referred to in paragraphs 20 and 21; and
c. after the transition period, all timber resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands.
APPLICABLE LAWS AND STANDARDS
Forest Practices and Standards
5.
During the transition period, forest practices legislation applies to
activities and obligations of:
a. the holder of an agreement under the
Forest Act
on Nisg̱a'a Lands as if Nisg̱a'a Lands were Crown land; and
b. the holder of a licence within the area covered by its forest
development plan on Nisg̱a'a Lands as if Nisg̱a'a Lands were Crown land.
6.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government will make laws in respect of the management of
timber resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, that will take effect on the
effective date.
7.
Laws made under paragraph 6 do not apply to:
a. activities and obligations referred to in paragraph 5; and
b. fire control and suppression activities for which British Columbia is
responsible under paragraphs 57 and 59.
8.
Laws made under paragraph 6 will include forest standards that meet or
exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation
applicable to Crown land, and will include forest standards in respect
of the following subject areas if these subject areas are addressed in
forest practices legislation:
a. riparian management;
b. cut block design and distribution;
c. road construction, maintenance and deactivation;
d. reforestation;
e. soil conservation;
f. biodiversity;
g. hazard abatement, fire preparedness and initial fire suppression;
h. silvicultural systems and logging methods; and
i. forest health.
9.
In a determination of whether forest standards established under
paragraph 6 meet or exceed forest standards established under forest
practices legislation applicable to Crown land, the subject areas
referred to in paragraph 8 will be compared collectively.
10.
Forest standards established under paragraph 6 will be deemed to meet or
exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation
applicable to Crown land, if they are no more intrusive to the
environment than the forest standards applicable to Crown land
established under forest practices legislation.
11.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws in respect of non-timber forest
resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, including establishing standards to regulate
harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources, provided
that the standards meet or exceed any federal or provincial standards
established under legislation to regulate, on private land, the
harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources.
12.
The Parties may negotiate arrangements to achieve coordination and
administrative efficiencies in respect of matters such as timber
harvesting plans, road building, forest health concerns, forest fire
detection and suppression, non-timber forest resources, and the
protection of fisheries habitat.
Timber Marking and Timber Scaling
13.
Subject to paragraph 14, provincial laws in respect of timber scaling
apply to timber harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands.
14.
After the transition period, Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government may make laws
compatible with provincial laws in respect of timber scaling.
15.
If Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government makes laws under paragraph 14, Nisg̱a'a
Lisims Government will, on or before March 31 of each year, provide to
British Columbia a report on the volume of timber harvested during the
preceding year from Nisg̱a'a Lands, by species, grade, and timber mark.
16.
Provincial laws in respect of timber marks apply to timber harvested on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
TIMBER HARVESTING
Timber Harvesting Rates
17.
Subject to the cut control provisions in Appendix H, the volume of
timber that may be harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a
Indian reserves, during the nine year period commencing on the effective
date, is:
a. year 1   165,000 m
3
;
b. year 2   165,000 m
3
;
c. year 3   165,000 m
3
;
d. year 4   165,000 m
3
;
e. year 5   165,000 m
3
;
f. year 6   135,000 m
3
;
g. year 7   135,000 m
3
;
h. year 8   135,000 m
3
; and
i. year 9   130,000 m
3
.
18.
On the effective date, or as soon as is practicable, British Columbia
will apportion among the holders of licences the volume of timber to be
harvested on Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves,
by the holders of licences during the transition period as follows:
a. year 1   155,000 m
3
;
b. year 2   155,000 m
3
;
c. year 3   155,000 m
3
;
d. year 4   135,000 m
3
; and
e. year 5   125,000 m
3
.
19.
During the transition period, the aggregate volume of timber to be
harvested by holders of licences from that portion of the
Ksi Hlginx (Ishkheenickh)
watershed that is within Nisg̱a'a Lands will not exceed 210,000 m
3
.
20.
During the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation, subject to this
Agreement, may authorize the harvest of the volumes of timber from
Nisg̱a'a Lands, other than former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves as follows:
a. year 1   10,000 m
3
;
b. year 2   10,000 m
3
;
c. year 3   10,000 m
3
;
d. year 4   30,000 m
3
; and
e. year 5   40,000 m
3
.
21.
In addition to the volumes specified in paragraph 20, the Nisg̱a'a Nation
may authorize the harvest of:
a. any overcut or accumulated undercut volumes of timber determined
under and in accordance with Appendix H; and
b. timber from former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves.
22.
Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in accordance with Nisg̱a'a laws, including
any cut control provisions, will authorize the harvest of volumes of
timber from Nisg̱a'a Lands for years six through nine after the effective
date as follows:
a. year 6   135,000 m
3
;
b. year 7   135,000 m
3
;
c. year 8   135,000 m
3
; and
d. year 9   130,000 m
3
.
23.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia may negotiate agreements in
respect of matters such as the rate of harvest of timber resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
24.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will make timber harvested under paragraph 20 and
subparagraph 21 (a) reasonably available to local mills.
Timber Harvesting Rights Existing Before the Effective Date
25.
Except as provided in Appendix H, British Columbia will ensure that on
the effective date any portion of:
a. any agreement under the
Forest Act
; and
b. any plan, permit or authorization associated with any agreement under
the
Forest Act
that applies to Nisg̱a'a Lands, ceases to be valid.
26.
Timber harvesting rights under a licence or permit granted under the
Indian Timber Regulations in respect of former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves
expire on the effective date.
Timber Harvesting Rights During the Transition Period
27.
British Columbia may enter into a licence with a person who was the
holder of an agreement under the
Forest Act
to allow for the harvesting of some or all of that volume of timber on
Nisg̱a'a Lands referred to in paragraph 18.
28.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a major licence
will:
a. have similar terms and conditions as a non-replaceable forest
licence, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:
i. the date that was specified in the agreement under the
Forest Act
,
ii. the end of the transition period, or
iii. the cancellation of the licence;
b. if the licence replaces a portion of a tree farm licence, provide
that the holder of the licence may not harvest timber outside of that
portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands that was included in the area of the tree farm
licence unless requested to do so by the Forestry Transition Committee;
and
c. require the holder of the licence to use Nisg̱a'a Contractors under
full phase logging contracts in accordance with Appendix H.
29.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a timber sale
licence will have similar terms and conditions as the licence it
replaces, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:
a. the date that was specified in the agreement under the
Forest Act
;
b. the end of the transition period; or
c. the cancellation of the licence.
Operational Plans and Permits During the Transition Period
30.
During the transition period, the operational planning and performance
requirements contained in Appendix H apply to timber harvesting and
related activities on Nisg̱a'a Lands.
31.
Except as set out in this Agreement, British Columbia will not:
a. approve plans or issue permits under forest practices legislation in
respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands; or
b. allow the holders of licences to carry out timber harvesting or
related activities on Nisg̱a'a Lands.
32.
On the effective date, the Nisg̱a'a Nation and British Columbia will
establish the Forestry Transition Committee and will each appoint one
member to that committee.
33.
The Forestry Transition Committee has, in respect of Nisg̱a'a Lands, sole
authority to approve, extend or issue, or to exempt the requirement for:
a. forest development plans and amendments in respect of timber
harvesting and related activities to be carried out during the
transition period;
b. silviculture prescriptions and amendments submitted by the holder of
a licence for harvesting proposed for the fourth and fifth years of the
transition period;
c. all cutting permits and road permits required by the holder of a
licence to carry out timber harvesting and related activities during the
fifth year of the transition period; and
d. all road use permits required during the transition period.
34.
The Forestry Transition Committee may exempt a person from any
requirement to comply with operational planning constraints specified in
Appendix H.
35.
The Forestry Transition Committee may impose conditions on any exemption
referred to in paragraph 33 or 34.
36.
British Columbia has the authority to approve, extend or issue, or to
exempt the requirement for, prescriptions and permits referred to in
this Agreement that are:
a. required by the holder of a licence; and
b. not referred to in paragraph 33.
37.
British Columbia may impose conditions on any exemption referred to in
paragraph 36.
38.
The Forestry Transition Committee will make its decisions by consensus,
and any dispute between the members of the Forestry Transition Committee
arising out of the performance of its duties will be finally determined
by arbitration in accordance with Appendix H.
39.
The member of the Forestry Transition Committee who acts on behalf of
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, or an arbitrator in an arbitration referred to in
paragraph 38, will have the same immunities from liability as a district
manager under forest practices legislation.
Performance Obligations
40.
Notwithstanding paragraph 25, British Columbia will ensure that all
obligations in respect of harvested areas and roads constructed on
Nisg̱a'a Lands imposed under agreements under the
Forest Act
or the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.
41.
Notwithstanding the expiry, surrender, suspension, or cancellation of a
licence, British Columbia will ensure that all obligations imposed under
the licence and the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.
42.
British Columbia will fulfill on Nisg̱a'a Lands all obligations imposed
under forest practices legislation for the small business forest
enterprise program.
43.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will:
a. determine which roads that require deactivation under forest
practices legislation will not require deactivation; and
b. notify in writing the person responsible for the road that
deactivation of the road is not required.
44.
Notice under paragraph 43 will be given as soon as practicable after the
person responsible for the road advises the Nisg̱a'a Nation that they
intend to deactivate the road.
45.
All roads that are required to be deactivated will be deactivated:
a. as soon as practicable after the end of the transition period; or
b. if they are required for carrying out silviculture obligations, as
soon as practicable after the completion of those obligations.
46.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation will provide access to Nisg̱a'a Lands to holders of
agreements under the
Forest Act
, to holders of licences and to British Columbia so that they may
fulfill the obligations referred to in paragraphs 40 to 42 and 45.
Compliance and Enforcement
47.
During the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for
enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands
by holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and by holders of licences.
48.
British Columbia will ensure that the holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and the holders of licences comply with the requirements of their
agreements and licences.
49.
After the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for
enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands
by holders of agreements under the
Forest Act
and by holders of licences for obligations referred to in paragraphs 40
to 42 and 45.
50.
If British Columbia determines that a holder of an agreement or a holder
of a licence has contravened forest practices legislation by harvesting
timber without proper authority, British Columbia will levy a penalty
against the holder equal to:
a. British Columbia's determination of the stumpage and bonus bid that
would have been payable had the volume of timber been sold under section
20 of the
Forest Act
; and
b. twice British Columbia's determination of the market value of logs
and special forest products that were, or could have been, produced from
the timber.
51.
During the transition period, if a penalty other than a performance
penalty is imposed on a person for a contravention of forest practices
legislation on or affecting Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia will pay to
the Nisg̱a'a Nation an amount equivalent to the portion of that penalty
that is imposed in respect of the contravention on or affecting Nisg̱a'a
Lands.
52.
During the transition period, if a performance penalty is imposed on a
person for a contravention of forest practices legislation on Nisg̱a'a
Lands, British Columbia will pay to the Nisg̱a'a Nation an amount
equivalent to the portion of that penalty that is imposed and collected
in respect of the contravention on Nisg̱a'a Lands, less the reasonable
costs associated with imposing that penalty.
53.
During the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation may commence, or
intervene in, an appeal to the Forest Appeals Commission in respect of:
a. a determination of whether a person has contravened forest practices
legislation on or affecting Nisg̱a'a Lands; or
b. the determination of whether to impose a penalty referred to in
paragraphs 51 and 52 and the amount of that penalty.
54.
During the transition period, the powers of the Forest Practices Board
set out in forest practices legislation in respect of complaints, audits
and special reports apply on Nisg̱a'a Lands to holders of agreements
under the
Forest Act
and to holders of licences.
55.
During the transition period, the Forest Practices Board will perform an
annual audit of compliance with and enforcement of forest practices
legislation on Nisg̱a'a Lands.
56.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation is responsible for enforcing compliance with laws
made under paragraphs 6 and 11.
FOREST FIRES AND FOREST HEALTH
Forest Fire Control and Suppression on Nisg̱a'a Lands
57.
During the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for the
control and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Lands:
a. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere in
British Columbia; and
b. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority
to the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere
in British Columbia.
58.
During the transition period, Canada will pay the costs incurred by
British Columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires that
originate on former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on the same basis as would
have applied if the former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves had remained Indian
reserves under the
Indian Act
.
59.
After the transition period, British Columbia is responsible for control
and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands:
a. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere in
British Columbia; and
b. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority
to the control and suppression of forest fires on Crown land elsewhere
in British Columbia.
60.
After the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will be responsible for
the control and suppression of forest fires on Nisg̱a'a Village Lands and
on Nisg̱a'a Private Lands.
61.
After the transition period, the Nisg̱a'a Nation will pay the costs
incurred by British Columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires
on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands if the forest fire:
a. originates on Nisg̱a'a Public Lands and is caused by an act of God or
an industrial user authorized by the Nisg̱a'a Nation;
b. originates on Crown land and is caused by an act of God;
c. originates on private land and is caused by an act of God; or
d. originates on Nisg̱a'a Village Lands or on Nisg̱a'a Private Lands.
Forest Health
62.
Except for the responsibilities of the holders of licences set out in
Appendix H, the Nisg̱a'a Nation is responsible for forest health on
Nisg̱a'a Lands.
63.
If a forest health problem on Nisg̱a'a Lands threatens forest resources
on adjacent Crown land:
a. British Columbia may notify the Nisg̱a'a Nation of the nature, extent
and location of the forest health problem;
b. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation receives notice under subparagraph (a), it
will, within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate
the forest health problem;
c. if the Nisg̱a'a Nation does not meet its obligation under subparagraph
(b), British Columbia, after providing reasonable notice to the Nisg̱a'a
Nation, may enter onto Nisg̱a'a Lands and carry out reasonable measures,
consistent with Nisg̱a'a laws made under paragraphs 6 and 11, to mitigate
the forest health problem;
d. British Columbia will use, to the extent that they are available and
qualified, Nisg̱a'a citizens to carry out measures under subparagraph
(c); and
e. the Nisg̱a'a Nation will reimburse British Columbia for all reasonable
costs incurred by British Columbia in carrying out measures under
subparagraph (c).
64.
If British Columbia becomes aware of forest health problems on Crown
land that threaten forest resources on Nisg̱a'a Lands, British Columbia
will:
a. within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate
the identified forest health problem; and
b. compensate the Nisg̱a'a Nation for any damage to forest resources on
Nisg̱a'a Lands that result from its failure to meet its obligation under
subparagraph (a).
TIMBER PROCESSING
65.
Provincial laws in respect of manufacture in British Columbia of timber
harvested from Crown land apply to timber harvested from Nisg̱a'a Lands.
66.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation may apply to British Columbia to export timber
harvested from Nisg̱a'a Lands.
67.
During the transition period, British Columbia will approve an
application referred to in paragraph 66 if the application is in
accordance with provincial laws and policies.
68.
Paragraph 65 does not apply in respect of timber harvested from former
Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves during the transition period.
69.
Timber harvested from former Nisg̱a'a Indian reserves during the
transition period may be exported in accordance with federal laws as if
the timber had been harvested from a "reserve" as defined in the
Indian Act
.
70.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or a Nisg̱a'a Corporation will not
establish a primary timber processing facility for 10 years after the
effective date.
71.
Paragraph 70 does not preclude the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, or
a Nisg̱a'a Corporation from:
a. establishing a timber processing facility to provide lumber for use
by the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, Nisg̱a'a Institutions, a
Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or Nisg̱a'a citizens for residential or public
purposes;
b. conducting value-added timber processing; or
c. entering into any partnership or joint venture with the owner of an
existing timber processing facility.
ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
Same Economic Position
72.
British Columbia, in accordance with Appendix H, will make payments to
the Nisg̱a'a Nation in respect of timber harvested by holders of licences
during the transition period.
Restoration
73.
British Columbia and Canada recognize that the present and anticipated
efforts of the Nisg̱a'a Nation to restore watersheds within the Nass Area
are consistent with the objectives of Forest Renewal British Columbia.
74.
The Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply for funding for restoration of Nisg̱a'a Lands
under federal, provincial, or Crown corporation programs, in accordance
with requirements and guidelines of those programs.
FOREST RESOURCES OUTSIDE NISG̱A'A LANDS
Forest Management
75.
Canada or British Columbia will provide the Nisg̱a'a Nation, through the
Joint Fisheries Management Committee and the Wildlife Committee, the
information concerning forest development plans applicable to all or
part of the Nass Area that is provided to the ministries or departments
of Canada and British Columbia participating on those committees.
Forest Tenures
76.
British Columbia agrees in principle to an acquisition by the Nisg̱a'a
Nation of a forest tenure or tenures having an aggregate allowable
annual cut of up to 150,000 m
3
.
77.
An acquisition referred to in paragraph 76 will require approval by the
Minister of Forests in accordance with the
Forest Act
.
78.
The Minister of Forests supports, and will approve, an acquisition
referred to in paragraph 76 if the Minister is satisfied that:
a. there has been a public process, in accordance with Ministry policy
on tenure transfers and corporate concentration, that identifies public
interests in relation to those matters; and
b. the tenure or tenures contain terms and conditions that address local
employment and economic opportunities, including those in the Nass Area,
and regional fibre supply needs.
79.
In addition to the requirements set out in paragraphs 77 and 78, if the
tenure to be acquired by the Nisg̱a'a Nation is a Tree Farm Licence, the
approval of the Minister of Forests will be conditional upon the
agreement by the Nisg̱a'a Nation to the inclusion of a portion of Nisg̱a'a
Lands as Schedule A Lands within the Tree Farm Licence.
80.
The portion of Nisg̱a'a Lands to be included as Schedule A Lands within a
Tree Farm Licence will be:
a. negotiated at the time of the Tree Farm Licence acquisition; and
b. based on appropriate management considerations.
81.
Nothing in this Agreement limits the ability of the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a
Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen to acquire
a forest tenure under the
Forest Act
.
82.
A forest tenure referred to in paragraph 76 or 81 that is acquired by
the Nisg̱a'a Nation, a Nisg̱a'a Village, a Nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a
Nisg̱a'a citizen, is subject to federal and provincial laws of general
application.
Contents
|
Sections 1-70
|
Schedule - Table of Contents
|
Preamble
|
Chapter 1
|
Chapter 2
|
Chapter 3
|
Chapter 4
|
Chapter 5 |
Chapter 6
|
Chapter 7
|
Chapter 8
|
Chapter 9
|
Chapter 10
|
Chapter 11
|
Chapter 12
|
Chapter 13
|
Chapter 14
|
Chapter 15
|
Chapter 16
|
Chapter 17
|
Chapter 18
|
Chapter 19
|
Chapter 20
|
Chapter 21
|
Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Map of Nisg̱a'a Lands
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
