View complete statute Election act [rsbc 1996] chapter 106 Part 3 — calling an election Order for a general election 24 (1) For a general election to be held, the lieutenant governor in council Must issue an order under this section that (a) Directs the chief electoral officer to issue writs of election for all Electoral districts, (b) Sets the date of issue for the writs of election, which must be the Same for all writs, (c) Specifies the final voting day for the election in accordance with Section 27 of this act and section 23 of the Constitution act , and (d) Directs that the writs of election be returned in accordance with this Act.
(2) If a general election is called before final voting day for a By-election that is in progress, the by-election is cancelled and the Election for that electoral district is to take place as part of the General election.
Order for a by-election 25 (1) On receiving a warrant under the Constitution act For a by-election, the chief electoral officer must notify the Lieutenant governor in council for the purposes of allowing the writ Of election to be issued within the time limit established by that Act.
(2) For a by-election to be held, the lieutenant governor in council must Issue an order that (a) Directs the chief electoral officer to issue a writ of election for The electoral district, (b) Sets the date of issue for the writ of election, (c) Specifies the final voting day for the election in accordance with Section 27, and (d) Directs that the writ of election be returned in accordance with this Act.
Election called when writ of election issued 26 (1) On receiving an order of the lieutenant governor in council under Section 24 or 25, the chief electoral officer must (a) Issue the writ or writs of election in accordance with the order, (b) Transmit each writ to the district electoral officer to whom it is Addressed, and (c) Arrange for the writ or writs to be published in the gazette.
(2) A writ of election must be substantially in the form of form 1 as set Out in the schedule to this act and must include the following:
(a) The dates for the start and end of the nomination period for Nominations under section 56; (b) The date of final voting day for the election; (c) The day for the return of the writ, being the date on or before which The district electoral officer is to certify to the chief electoral Officer the name of the individual elected as member of the Legislative assembly.
(3) For the purposes of this act, an election is called when the writ for The election is issued in accordance with the applicable order of the Lieutenant governor in council under section 24 or 25.
Final voting day 27 (1) Final voting day for an election, (a) In the case of a general election conducted in accordance with section 23 (2) or (3) of the Constitution act , and in the case of a by-election, is the twenty-eighth day after the Date on which the election is called, and (b) In the case of a general election that is not conducted in accordance With section 23 (2) or (3) of the Constitution act , subject to subsection (3) of this section, is at least the Thirty-second day but no later than the thirty-eighth day after the Date on which the election is called.
(2) Final voting day for a general election described in subsection (1) (a) must occur on a saturday.
(3) Final voting day for a general election described in subsection (1) (b) must occur on a saturday, and the date under subsection (1) (b) is to be determined accordingly.
(4) As an exception to subsections (2) and (3), if the day under Subsection (1) falls on a holiday, final voting day is the next day That is not a holiday.
Notice of election 28 (1) As soon as possible after an election is called, the chief electoral Officer must publish or direct the district electoral officer to Publish a notice of election in accordance with section 270.
(2) The notice of election must include the following:
(a) The dates, times and places at which nominations will be received by The district electoral officer during the nomination period; (b) How interested individuals can obtain information on the requirements And procedures for making a nomination; (c) The dates and voting hours for final voting and advance voting, in the Event that an election by voting is required; (d) Any other information the chief electoral officer considers should be Included.
(3) The notice of election must also be posted in the office of the District electoral officer throughout the nomination period.
(4) The chief electoral officer may direct or authorize the district Electoral officer to provide for additional notice of the election to Be given to the public.
Contents
| Part 1
| Part 2
| Part 3 |
Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 7
| Part 8
| Part 9
| Part 10
| Part 10.1
| Part 11
| Part 12
| Part 13
| Schedule