View complete statute Strata property act [sbc 1998] chapter 43 Part 8 — rentals Repealed
139-140 [repealed 2022-41-17.] No restriction of rentals by strata corporation 141 The strata corporation must not screen tenants, establish screening Criteria, require the approval of tenants, require the insertion of Terms in tenancy agreements or otherwise restrict the rental of a Strata lot.
Repealed
142-145 [repealed 2022-41-19.] Landlord to give bylaws, rules and notice of tenant's responsibilities To tenant 146 (1) Before a landlord rents all or part of a residential strata lot, the Landlord must give the prospective tenant (a) The current bylaws and rules, and (b) A notice of tenant's responsibilities in the prescribed form.
(2) Within 2 weeks of renting all or part of a residential strata lot, the Landlord must give the strata corporation a copy of the notice signed By the tenant.
(3) If a landlord fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2), the tenant (a) Is still bound by the bylaws and rules, but (b) May, within 90 days of learning of the landlord's failure to comply, End the tenancy agreement without penalty by giving notice to the Landlord.
(4) If a tenant ends a tenancy agreement under subsection (3), the Landlord must pay the tenant's reasonable moving expenses to a maximum Of one month's rent.
Assignment of powers and duties to tenant 147 (1) A landlord may assign to a tenant some or all of the powers and duties Of the landlord that arise under this act, the bylaws or the rules, But may not assign to a tenant the landlord's responsibility under Section 131 for fines or the costs of remedying a contravention Of the bylaws or rules.
(2) The assignment is not effective until the landlord gives the strata Corporation a written notice stating all of the following:
(a) The name of the tenant to whom the assignment is made; (b) The powers and duties that have been assigned; (c) The time period during which the assignment is effective.
Long term lease 148 (1) In this section, "long term lease" Means a lease to the same person for a set term of 3 years or More.
(2) If a residential strata lot is leased under a long term lease, the Tenant is assigned the powers and duties of the landlord under this Act, the bylaws and the rules for the term of the lease.
(3) Before exercising any powers of the landlord, the tenant must have Given to the strata corporation written notice of the assignment Referred to in subsection (2), stating the name of the tenant and the Time period during which the lease is effective.
(4) The strata corporation must give a copy of the notice referred to in Subsection (3) to the landlord and to the owner.
(5) The assignment does not include an assignment of the landlord's Responsibility under section 131 for fines or the costs of Remedying a contravention of the bylaws or rules.
(6) The tenant must not, without the owner's consent, exercise any power Or right of an owner (a) To acquire or dispose of land, (b) To cancel or amend the strata plan, or (c) To do anything that would affect the owner's interest in the strata Lot, common property or land that is a common asset.
(7) The landlord must not deal with the landlord's interest in the strata Lot, common property or land that is a common asset in a way that Unreasonably interferes with the rights of the tenant under the lease Or assignment.
Contents
| Part 1
| Part 2
| Part 3
| Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 7
| Part 8 |
Part 9
| Part 10
| Part 11
| Part 12
| Part 13
| Part 14
| Part 15
| Part 16
| Part 17
| Schedule of standard bylaws