View complete regulation B.c. reg. 296/97 Workers' compensation board Deposited september 8, 1997 Effective april 15, 1998 This consolidation is current to november 28, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after november 28, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Workers compensation act Occupational health and safety regulation [last amended march 1, 2023 by b.c. reg. 223/2022] Part 10 — de-energization and lockout Definitions
10.1 In this part:
"control system isolating device" Means a device that physically prevents activation of a system used For controlling the operation of machinery or equipment; "energy isolating device" Means a device that physically prevents the transmission or release of An energy source to machinery or equipment; "energy source" Means any electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, chemical, Thermal, or other source of energy of potential harm to workers; "key securing system" Means a system which physically prevents access to keys when locks or Positive sealing devices are applied in a group lockout procedure; "lockout" Means the use of a lock or locks to render machinery or equipment Inoperable or to isolate an energy source in accordance with a written Procedure;
"maintenance" Means work performed to keep machinery or equipment in a safe Operating condition, including installing, repairing, cleaning, Lubricating and the clearing of obstructions to the normal flow of Material;
"normal production" Means work that is routine, repetitive, and integral to the normal use Of machinery or equipment for production; "personal lock" Means a lock provided by the employer for use by a worker to ensure Personal lockout protection such that each lock when applied is Operable only by a key in the worker's possession, and by a key under The control of the supervisor or manager in charge.
General requirement 10.2 If the unexpected energization or startup of machinery or equipment or The unexpected release of an energy source could cause injury, the Energy source must be isolated and effectively controlled.
When lockout required 10.3 (1) If machinery or equipment is shut down for maintenance, no work may be Done until (a) All parts and attachments have been secured against inadvertent Movement,
(b) Where the work will expose workers to energy sources, the hazard has Been effectively controlled, and (c) The energy isolating devices have been locked out as required by this Part.
(2) If machinery or equipment is in use for normal production work, Subsection (1) applies if a work activity creates a risk of injury to Workers from the movement of the machinery or equipment, or exposure To an energy source, and the machinery or equipment is not effectively Safeguarded to protect the workers from the risk.
Lockout procedures 10.4 (1) When lockout of energy isolating devices is required, the devices must Be secured in the safe position using locks in accordance with Procedures that are made available to all workers who are required to Work on the machinery or equipment.
(2) The employer must ensure that each worker required to lock out has Ready access to sufficient personal locks to implement the required Lockout procedure.
(3) Combination locks must not be used for lockout.
(4) Each personal lock must be marked or tagged to identify the person Applying it.
(5) Procedures must be implemented for shift or personnel changes, Including the orderly transfer of control of locked out energy Isolating devices between outgoing and incoming workers.
(6) If the use of a personal lock is not practicable for lockout, another Effective means, if approved by the board, may be used in place of a Personal lock to secure an energy isolating device in the safe Position.
Access to energy isolating devices 10.5 When an energy isolating device is locked out, the lock must not Prevent access to other energy isolating devices supplying machinery Or equipment that could cause injury to workers.
Checking locked out equipment 10.6 (1) Effective means of verifying lockout must be provided and used.
(2) Before commencing work, a worker must verify that all energy sources Have been effectively locked out.
Worker responsibilities 10.7 Each worker who works on machinery or equipment requiring lockout is Responsible for (a) Locking out the energy isolating devices before starting work, except As provided by section 10.9, (b) Removing personal locks on the completion of the worker's work, and (c) Maintaining immediate control of the key(s) to personal locks Throughout the duration of the work.
[am. b.c. reg. 116/2022, app. b, s. 9.] Removal of locks 10.8 (1) A personal lock must only be removed by the worker who installed it, Or if this is not possible, the matter must be referred to the Supervisor or manager in charge, who will be responsible for its Removal.
(2) The supervisor or manager in charge must (a) Make every reasonable effort to contact the worker who installed the Lock, and (b) Ensure that the machinery or equipment can be operated safely before Removing the lock.
(3) A worker must be notified at the start of the worker's next shift if The worker's personal lock(s) have been removed since the worker's Previous shift.
[am. b.c. reg. 116/2022, app. b, s. 9.] Group lockout procedure 10.9 (1) If a large number of workers are working on machinery or equipment or A large number of energy isolating devices must be locked out, a group Lockout procedure that meets the requirements of subsections (2) to (7) may be used.
(2) In a group lockout procedure 2 qualified workers must be responsible For
(a) Independently locking out the energy isolating devices, (b) Securing the keys for the locks used under paragraph (a) with personal Locks or other positive sealing devices acceptable to the board, and (c) Completing, signing and posting a checklist that identifies the Machinery or equipment components covered by the lockout.
(3) Before commencing work each worker working on the locked out Components must apply a personal lock to the key securing system used In subsection (2) (b).
(4) Workers may lock out a secondary key securing system if 2 qualified Workers lock out the primary key securing system and place their keys In the secondary system.
(5) On completion of the worker's work, each worker referred to in Subsections (3) and (4) must remove the worker's personal lock from The key securing system.
(6) When the requirements of subsection (5) have been met and it has been Determined that it is safe to end the group lockout, 2 qualified Workers must be responsible for removing their personal locks or the Positive sealing device(s) from the key securing system or systems Containing the keys for the locks used under subsection (2) (a), and Once those keys are released, the system is no longer considered to be Locked out.
(7) The written group lockout procedure must be conspicuously posted at The place where the system is in use.
[am. b.c. reg. 116/2022, app. b, s. 9.] Alternative procedures 10.10 (1) If lockout of energy isolating devices as required by Section 10.3 is not practicable, (a) In the case of a power system as defined in part 19 (electrical Safety), the requirements of that part must be followed, (b) In the case of mobile equipment, the requirements of part 16 must be Followed,
(c) In the case of machinery or equipment designed and equipped with Effective control system isolating devices, the devices must be locked Out as required by sections 10.4 to 10.9, And 10.10 (2), and (d) In an emergency, the energy isolating devices or control system Devices must be effectively controlled to prevent inadvertent start up Or hazardous energy release.
(2) Control system isolating devices and the procedures for using them Must be approved in writing by the board, and must be used by workers Qualified and authorized to carry out the work.
[am. b.c. reg. 139/2021, app. d, s. 4.] Locks not required 10.11 The application of a lock is not required under section 10.3 Or 10.10 if (a) The energy isolating device is under the exclusive and immediate Control of the worker at all times while working on the machinery or Equipment, or (b) A tool, machine or piece of equipment which receives power through a Readily disconnected supply, such as an electrical cord or quick Release air or hydraulic line, is disconnected from its power supply And its connection point is kept under the immediate control of the Worker at all times while work is being done.
Work on energized equipment 10.12 If it is not practicable to shut down machinery or equipment for Maintenance, only the parts which are vital to the process may remain Energized and the work must be performed by workers who (a) Are qualified to do the work, (b) Have been authorized by the employer to do the work, and (c) Have been provided with and follow written safe work procedures.
Part 11 — fall protection Definitions
11.1 In this part:
"anchor" Means a component or subsystem of a fall protection system used to Connect other parts of a fall protection system to an anchorage, and Includes an anchorage connector; "anchorage" Means a secure connection point for a fall protection system; "fall arrest system" Means a system that will stop a worker's fall before the worker hits The surface below; "fall protection system" Means
(a) A fall restraint system, (b) A fall arrest system, or (c) Work procedures that are acceptable to the board and minimize the risk Of injury to a worker from a fall; "fall restraint system" Means a system to prevent a worker from falling from a work position, Or from travelling to an unguarded edge from which the worker could Fall;
"full body harness" Means a body support device consisting of connected straps designed to Distribute the force resulting from a fall over at least the thigh, Shoulders and pelvis, with provision for attaching a lanyard, lifeline Or other components; "horizontal lifeline system" Means a system composed of a synthetic or wire rope, installed Horizontally between 2 anchors, to which a worker attaches a personal Fall protection system; "lanyard" Means a flexible line of webbing, or synthetic or wire rope, that is Used to secure a safety belt or full body harness to a lifeline or Anchor;
"lifeline" Means a synthetic or wire rope, rigged from one or more anchors, to Which a worker's lanyard or other part of a personal fall protection System is attached; "personal fall protection system" Means a worker's fall restraint system or fall arrest system composed Of
(a) A safety belt or full body harness, and (b) A lanyard, lifeline and any other connecting equipment individual to The worker That is used to secure the worker to an anchor, an anchorage or a Horizontal lifeline system; "safety belt" Means a body support device consisting of a strap with a means for Securing it about the waist and attaching it to other components.
[am. b.c. regs. 420/2004, s. 2; 404/2012, app. a, s. 1.] Obligation to use fall protection 11.2 (1) Unless elsewhere provided for in this regulation, an employer must Ensure that a fall protection system is used when work is being done At a place (a) From which a fall of 3 m (10 ft) or more may occur, or (b) Where a fall from a height of less than 3 m involves a risk of Injury greater than the risk of injury from the impact on a flat Surface.
(2) The employer must ensure that guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4 (general conditions) or other similar means of fall restraint Are used when practicable.
(3) If subsection (2) is not practicable, the employer must ensure that Another fall restraint system is used.
(4) If subsection (3) is not practicable, the employer must ensure that One of the following is used:
(a) A fall arrest system; (b) A rope access system that meets the requirements of part 34.
(5) If subsection (4) is not practicable, or will result in a hazard Greater than if a fall arrest system or a rope access system was not Used, the employer must ensure that work procedures are followed that Are acceptable to the board and minimize the risk of injury to a Worker from a fall.
(6) Before a worker is allowed into an area where a risk of falling Exists, the employer must ensure that the worker is instructed in the Fall protection system for the area and the procedures to be followed.
(7) A worker must use the fall protection system provided by the employer.
[am. b.c. regs. 420/2004, s. 4; 199/2014, app. k, s. 1.] Fall protection plan 11.3 (1) The employer must have a written fall protection plan for a workplace If
(a) Work is being done at a location where workers are not protected by Permanent guardrails, and from which a fall of 7.5 m (25 ft) Or more may occur, or (b) Section 11.2 (5) applies.
(c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 5 (a) (iii).] (2) The fall protection plan must be available at the workplace before Work with a risk of falling begins.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 5 (b).] [am. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 5.] Selection of harness or belt 11.4 (1) A worker must wear a full body harness or other harness acceptable to The board when using a personal fall protection system for fall Arrest.
(2) A worker must wear a safety belt, a full body harness or other harness Acceptable to the board when using a personal fall protection system For fall restraint.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Equipment standards 11.5 Equipment used for a fall protection system must (a) Consist of compatible and suitable components, (b) Be sufficient to support the fall restraint or arrest forces, and (c) Meet, and be used in accordance with, an applicable csa or ansi Standard in effect when the equipment was manufactured, subject to any Modification or upgrading considered necessary by the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Anchors
11.6 (1) In a temporary fall restraint system, an anchor for a personal fall Protection system must have an ultimate load capacity in any direction In which a load may be applied of at least (a) 3.5 kn (800 lbs), or (b) Four times the weight of the worker to be connected to the system.
(2) Each personal fall protection system that is connected to an anchor Must be secured to an independent attachment point.
(3) In a temporary fall arrest system, an anchor for a personal fall Protection system must have an ultimate load capacity in any direction Required to resist a fall of at least (a) 22 kn (5 000 lbs), or (b) Two times the maximum arrest force.
(4) A permanent anchor for a personal fall protection system must have an Ultimate load capacity in any direction required to resist a fall of At least 22 kn (5 000 lbs).
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. b.c. regs. 19/2006, s. 3; 404/2012, App. a, s. 2.] Temporary horizontal lifelines 11.7 A temporary horizontal lifeline system may be used if the system is (a) Manufactured for commercial distribution and installed and used in Accordance with the written instructions from the manufacturer or Authorized agent, and the instructions are readily available in the Workplace,
(b) Installed and used in accordance with written instructions certified By a professional engineer, and the instructions are readily available In the workplace, or (c) Designed, installed and used in a manner acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. b.c. reg. 19/2006, s. 4.] Certification by engineer 11.8 The following types of equipment and systems, and their installation, Must be certified by a professional engineer:
(a) Permanent anchors; (b) Anchors with multiple attachment points; (c) Permanent horizontal lifeline systems; (d) Support structures for safety nets.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Inspection and maintenance 11.9 Equipment used in a fall protection system must be (a) Inspected by a qualified person before use on each workshift, (b) Kept free from substances and conditions that could contribute to its Deterioration, and (c) Maintained in good working order.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Removal from service 11.10 (0.1) If, at any time, a permanent anchor does not meet the requirements of Section 11.5 (c), the anchor must not be used until it has been Inspected and recertified, by a professional engineer, as meeting the Requirements of section 11.5 (c).
(1) After a fall protection system has arrested the fall of a worker, it Must
(a) Be removed from service, and (b) Not be returned to service until it has been inspected and recertified As safe for use by the manufacturer or its authorized agent, or by a Professional engineer.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a Personal fall protection system designed and intended for reuse by a Performer in the entertainment industry for conducting a planned fall Sequence.
(3) The following conditions must be met before a personal fall protection System described in subsection (2) will be exempt from subsection (1) (b):
(a) The system must be designed and used in accordance with a standard Acceptable to the board; (b) Each use of the system must be carried out in accordance with the plan For the conduct of the fall; (c) The peak arrest forces generated in the system during each use must be At or below both the planned limits and the maximum forces allowed for The system; (d) After each use of the system no part of the system, including the Anchorage, may be reused until a qualified person has inspected it and Determined it is in serviceable condition and safe for reuse.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. b.c. regs. 320/2007, app. c; 404/2012, app. a, s. 3.] Repealed
11.11- 11.40 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Contents
| Parts 1 to 3 | Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 7
| Part 8
| Part 9
| Parts 10 to 11 | Part 12
| Part 13
| Part 14
| Part 15
| Part 16
| Parts 17 to 18 | Part 19
| Part 20
| Part 21
| Part 22
| Part 23
| Part 24
| Parts 25 to 26 | Part 27
| Part 28
| Parts 29 to 34 | Schedules