B.c. reg. 450/59 O.c. 2866/59 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Industrial roads act Part xx Vehicular traffic on industrial roads regulations [last amended march 30, 2022 by b.c. reg. 76/2022] Extent and application of rules Repealed
1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 1.] Expressions interpreted Definitions
2 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Industrial roads act ; "chief inspector" Means the chief inspecting engineer appointed pursuant to the act, and Includes the chief engineer; "crew car" Or
"crummy" Means a motor vehicle intended for the transportation of workers, the Seating capacity of which exceeds 9 passengers; "inspector" Means an inspecting engineer appointed pursuant to the act; "insurance corporation" Means the insurance corporation of british columbia; "tractor" Means a motor vehicle capable of hauling a trailer on which materials Are transported, and includes the entire vehicle and all Appurtenances, and every part thereof; "trailer" Means a vehicle which does not have its own motive power but is Intended to be hauled by a tractor, and includes the entire vehicle And every part thereof; "truck" Means a self-contained motor vehicle capable of carrying materials, And includes a tractor with or without trailer being hauled or loaded On the body of the tractor.
[am. b.c. regs. 12/63; 225/2004, s. 1; 335/2004, s. 1; 76/2022, s.
11.] Responsibility of industrial roads administrator Obligations on vehicles using industrial roads 3 An owner of a motor vehicle used on or in the operation or Construction of an industrial road must (a) Ensure that the motor vehicle is maintained in a safe and proper Condition and operated on the industrial road in a safe and proper Manner, and (b) Maintain, and produce to peace officers and workers' compensation Board officials, on demand, the logbooks and other records necessary To demonstrate compliance with the obligations imposed under paragraph (a).
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 2.] Repealed
4-7 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 3.] Inspection of equipment Requirement to inspect 8 On each day that a truck, crew car or crummy owned or operated by an Industrial road administrator is to be operated on an industrial road Owned or operated by the industrial road administrator, the industrial Road administrator must ensure that the motor vehicle is inspected and Determined to be suitable for that operation by competent personnel Before that motor vehicle is operated on that industrial road.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 4.] Reporting of defects 9 Drivers shall examine their equipment before starting work each day And shall be responsible for reporting in writing to their immediate Supervisor or other authorized person all defects or unsafe Conditions. suitable logbooks or report forms shall be made available By the industrial road administrator for this purpose (w.c.b. 869).
[am. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 3.] Repealed
10-11 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 5.] Approval of brakes and brake systems Brakes
12 (1) A person must not drive a motor vehicle on an industrial road unless The brakes on the motor vehicle are maintained and operated in Compliance with the guidelines provided by the original equipment Manufacturer.
(2) Without limiting section 3, if the brakes of a motor vehicle have been Altered or modified, the owner of the motor vehicle must not allow the Motor vehicle to be operated on an industrial road unless the Alteration or modification (a) Has been completed in accordance with guidelines provided by the Original equipment manufacturer, or (b) Meets the applicable standard or recommended practices established by The society of automotive engineers (sae).
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 6.] Repealed
12.1-16 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 7.] Water for cooling brake drums Water supply 17 (1) An owner of a truck used on or in the operation or construction of an Industrial road must, if the motor vehicle is equipped with a water Supply to cool the brake drums, ensure that (a) The truck is equipped with tanks of sufficient capacity to store an Adequate water supply, and (b) For any intended operation of the truck on an industrial road, the Tanks carry a supply of water that is adequate to cool the brakes over The greatest distance that the truck may travel on the industrial road During that operation.
(2) The driver of a truck referred to in subsection (1) must ensure that The tanks and water supply referred to in that subsection are under The driver's control at all times.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 8; am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 4.] Water tanks with air pressure 18 Water tanks to which compressed air is supplied to place the water Under a static pressure shall be designed for a working pressure of at Least 15 pounds per square inch, and unless designed for a working Pressure equal to the tractor's main air reservoir pressure such tanks Shall be fitted with an air pressure relief valve set not higher than The pressure for which the manufacturer designed the tank, and no Valve or shut off shall be placed between the relief valve and the Tank.
Air pressure exhaustion 19 Water tanks to which compressed air is supplied shall be fitted either With a means of exhausting the air pressure contained within the tank Or a type of filling cap which will automatically permit the said air Pressure to be exhausted before such a cap is entirely removed.
Safety appliances Repealed
20 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 9.] Operation, maintenance and alteration of equipment 21 (1) Without limiting section 3, the owner of a motor vehicle used on or in The operation or construction of an industrial road must ensure that The following are operated and maintained in compliance with the Guidelines provided by their original manufacturer:
(a) Mirrors;
(b) Doors;
(c) Windows;
(d) Windshields;
(e) Horns;
(f) Audible signals; (g) Tires;
(h) Steps;
(i) Power steering; (j) Any other item necessary for the safe operation of the motor vehicle.
(2) Without limiting section 3, the owner of a motor vehicle used on or in The operation or construction of an industrial road must ensure that Any alteration that is made to items attached to or forming part of The motor is performed in accordance with (a) Guidelines provided by the original manufacturer of that item, or (b) The applicable standards or recommended practice established by the Society of automotive engineers (sae).
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 10.] Repealed
22 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 11.] Bunks
23 Bunks used on logging trucks shall be of a type suitable and safe for Intended use.
Repealed
24-28.1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 11.] Lights
Lights
29 Without limiting section 3, the owner of a motor vehicle used on or in The operation or construction of an industrial road must ensure that The lights on the motor vehicle are installed, maintained and operated In accordance with the following:
(a) Unless it is a motorcycle, the motor vehicle must be equipped with 2 Headlights mounted on each side of the front of the motor vehicle and Capable of displaying white light of equal power; (b) During the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour before Sunrise, and at any other time when there is not sufficient light to Render clearly discernible a substantial object on the roadway at a Distance of 61 metres, the headlights must be kept lighted whenever The motor vehicle is in motion on any industrial road; (c) If the motor vehicle is a passenger-carrying motor vehicle, the motor Vehicle, and any trailer being pulled by it, must be equipped with one Or more lights mounted on the back, which lights (i) Must be capable of displaying a red light that is plainly visible Under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 152 metres to The rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, as the case may be, and (ii) Must be kept lighted during the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour before sunrise, and at any other time when there is not Sufficient light to render clearly discernible a substantial object on The roadway at a distance of 61 metres; (d) Every crew car or crummy must, if the width of any part of the motor Vehicle or of any load on the motor vehicle is greater than 2 metres, Carry 4 clearance lights, on the extreme left side and right side of The motor vehicle, (i) 2 of which are located at the front, each displaying a white, green or Amber light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a Distance of 152 metres to the front of the motor vehicle, and (ii) The other 2 of which are located at the rear of the motor vehicle, Each displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric Conditions from a distance of 152 metres to the rear of the motor Vehicle;
(e) During the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour before Sunrise, and at any other time when there is not sufficient light to Render clearly discernible a substantial object on the industrial road At a distance of 61 metres, the clearance lights prescribed by Paragraph (d) must be kept lighted whenever the crew car or crummy is On the travelled portion of any industrial road; (f) Additional spotlights, foglights, auxiliary driving lights, passing Lights, identification lights, backup lights, emergency lights and Flasher lights may, at the discretion of the owner, be installed in Accordance with (i) Guidelines provided by the original manufacturer of that item, or (ii) The applicable standards or recommended practice established by the Society of automotive engineers (sae).
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 12.] Repealed
30 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 13.] Safety glass Repealed
31-32 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 13.] Crew cars and crummies Crew cars and crummies 33 (1) Without limiting section 3, the owner of a crew car or crummy used on Or in the operation or construction of an industrial road must ensure That
(a) The motor vehicle has tops and sides that are, and body construction That is, sufficiently strong to ensure the safe transport of Passengers,
(b) The motor vehicle has rear entry doors or side doors for entry or Egress of passengers, (c) The doors referred to in paragraph (b) are maintained so that they can Be unlatched and opened from both the inside and outside, (d) Any side doors are on the right side of the motor vehicle, (e) There is at least one emergency exit from the motor vehicle, which Emergency exit is on the left side or rear of the motor vehicle, and (f) If bulkheads exist between the driver and the passengers, there is a Window or opening in the bulkheads and a means of communication Between the driver and the passengers.
(2) The owner of a crew car or crummy referred to in subsection (1) must Not use curtains instead of doors or side walls.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 14.] Repealed
34 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 14.] Certification and licensing of drivers Driver requirements 35 (1) A person must not operate a motor vehicle of any class on an Industrial road in british columbia unless the person holds (a) A driver's licence issued by the insurance corporation authorizing the Person to operate a motor vehicle of that class, or (b) Subject to subsection (2), (i) A driver's licence, other than one referred to in paragraph (a), and (ii) A certificate of competency authorizing the person to operate a motor Vehicle on an industrial road.
(2) If a motor vehicle of any class operated on an industrial road Crosses, enters or operates on any highway, the driver of that motor Vehicle must hold a driver's licence issued by the insurance Corporation authorizing the person to operate a motor vehicle of that Class.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 14.] Prerequisites for candidates 36 Applicants for a certificate of competency referred to in section 35 (b) (ii) must (a) Hold a valid british columbia driver's licence, (b) For certificates of competency applicable to motor vehicles of a class Of motor vehicles, meet minimum age requirements set by section 30.04 Of the motor vehicle act regulations for the driver's licence required To operate motor vehicles of that class of motor vehicles, (c) Be an employee of the industrial road administrator that owns or Operates the industrial road or industrial roads on which the Applicant wishes to operate motor vehicles, (d) Submit a letter acceptable to the insurance corporation signed by the Management of the industrial road administrator referred to in Paragraph (c), indicating the applicant's training, experience and Competency to operate motor vehicles of the class of motor vehicles on The industrial road administrator's industrial roads, (e) Complete an application in the form required by the insurance Corporation, and (f) Submit to and pass any testing, including, without limitation, medical Testing, required by the insurance corporation or the superintendent Of motor vehicles.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 14.] Repealed
37-40 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 15.] Student drivers 41 The industrial road administrator may, upon its own roads and for a Period not exceeding 30 days, engage any suitable employee as a Student driver on any of its own motor vehicles; provided that such an Employee is the holder of a valid driver's licence issued under the Motor vehicle act , that the industrial road administrator is in possession of medical Proof as to the student's physical fitness to drive the type of Vehicle upon which the student is being trained, and that a certified Driver accompanies the student while driving until the industrial road Administrator is satisfied the student is sufficiently proficient to Take over control of the vehicle.
[am. b.c. regs. 225/2004, s. 3; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 8.] Temporary licences 42 (1) The insurance corporation may, on application, issue a temporary Driver's licence to a person if the insurance corporation considers That the person is (a) An employee of the industrial road administrator that owns or operates The industrial road on which the applicant for a temporary licence Intends to operate motor vehicles, and (b) Sufficiently qualified to operate those motor vehicles.
(2) A licence issued under subsection (1) is valid from the date of issue For a period of 60 days.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 16.] Repealed
43-44 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 17.] Responsibilities of drivers Operator's obligations 45 (1) If a motor vehicle is or is to be operated on an industrial road, the Operator of the motor vehicle must (a) Ensure that the motor vehicle is in a safe operating condition before And during its operation on the industrial road, and (b) If, for any reason, the motor vehicle is not in a safe operating Condition,
(i) Notify the industrial road administrator, and (ii) Refrain from operating the motor vehicle on the industrial road until The problem is rectified.
(2) If a motor vehicle that is operating on an industrial road is carrying A load, the operator of the motor vehicle must perform a running brake Test before operating the motor vehicle down a heavy grade.
[en. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 4.] Repealed
46-48 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 5.] Speed in accordance with conditions 49 The driver of every vehicle shall, in order to ensure safety, govern Speed according to the condition of the roadway.
Backing
50 Before any truck and trailer is backed into a loading works, a warning Signal shall be sounded on the horn of the truck which is backing in; Also, the driver of the truck shall receive signals from the head Loader or other responsible person at the loading works, who shall see That everyone is into clear before giving such signals.
Repealed
51 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 5.] Railway crossings 52 Except where a regular watcher is on duty and has signalled vehicles To proceed over any railway crossing, the drivers of crew cars Transporting passengers on any road, public or otherwise, shall cause Their vehicles to come to a full stop before crossing any railway, and Shall not cross until sure the railway is clear of trains in both Directions, and while in the process of crossing the tracks Transmission gears shall not be shifted.
[am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 11.] Signals
Signals
53 Except on industrial roads used exclusively for logging purposes, Signals as to the intention of the operator of any motor vehicle to Turn, stop or change course on an industrial road shall be given or Executed in accordance with the regulations governing signals made Pursuant to the Motor vehicle act .
Bridges and structures Construction and maintenance of bridges and structures 54 All bridges and structures on industrial roads through, over or under Which motor vehicles may travel shall be constructed and safely Maintained as follows:
(a) On every bridge and structure sufficient strength shall be maintained To safely accommodate all loadings encountered; (b) Where railway or other bridges are converted for the use of motor Vehicles, all posts, caps, stringers, braces and decks shall be of Sufficient spread, width and strength for safety, and adequate bull Rails shall be bolted to the structure; (c) Bridges over which vehicular traffic may travel shall be inspected by The industrial road administrator at regular intervals and, in Particular, at all times of flood and flood danger, all footings and Spans which are liable to be weakened or affected shall be examined Each day before traffic passes over such bridges; (d) Approaches to all bridges shall, wherever possible, be such that there Is no abrupt change of grade on the structure of the bridge.
Substantial bull rails shall be installed on all bridges and Approaches thereto, and the minister may order heavier and more Adequate bull rails if deemed necessary; (e) Abandoned bridges not safe for use shall be blocked to vehicular Traffic.
[am. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 3.] General and special rulings Repealed
55-56 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 5.] Vehicle identification 57 In the absence of licence plates or other numbered identification, Every motor vehicle operating on any industrial road shall have Identification numbers placed in a conspicuous place, and there shall Be no duplication of identification numbers between vehicles operating On the same road.
Repealed
58 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 5.] Stop signs at crossings 59 At every railway crossing or the crossing of every public road or Highway, standard stop signs shall be installed in both directions on The industrial road and all traffic on industrial roads shall observe The signs.
Rules of the road Normal rules of road apply; exceptions 60 Unless caution or notice boards are posted to the contrary, the normal Rules of the road shall apply on industrial roads; that is, vehicles Will normally travel on the right hand side of the road and shall obey Stop signs and give signals the same as on public highways. however, Nothing in this part shall be construed to prevent any industrial road Administrator from changing the rule of the road from right to left at Any point on an industrial road, provided signs of an approved type Are properly posted.
[am. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 3.] Repealed
61-65 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 5.] Accommodating other motor vehicles 66 (1) If a motor vehicle is being overtaken by another motor vehicle on an Industrial road, the operator of the first motor vehicle (a) Must pull the motor vehicle over to the side of the industrial road in Such a way as to allow the other motor vehicle to pass, or (b) If it is impracticable or unsafe to comply with paragraph (a), must Immediately stop, and, if necessary for the safety of the other motor Vehicle, assist the operator of the other motor vehicle to pass Without damage.
(2) If 2 motor vehicles are approaching each other on an industrial road, The operators of the motor vehicles (a) Must pull their respective motor vehicles over to the side of the Industrial road in such a way as to allow the other motor vehicle to Pass on the operator's left, or (b) If it is impracticable or unsafe to comply with paragraph (a), must Immediately stop their respective motor vehicles, come to an agreement As to how to proceed in the circumstances and proceed in accordance With that agreement.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 18.] Public vehicles on industrial roads 67 Unless otherwise provided for, vehicles owned and operated by the Public and licensed to operate on public highways shall not be Permitted to run on industrial roads during the hours industrial Vehicles are transporting materials on such industrial roads except With permission of the industrial road administrator, and signs shall Be posted accordingly by the industrial road administrator at all Entrances of industrial roads from public roads.
[am. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 3.] Speed restrictions 68 A person operating a motor vehicle on an industrial road must observe The following speed restrictions:
(a) When travelling through a school zone on a school day between the Hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., or times otherwise indicated in accordance With the motor vehicle act regulations, the operator must not allow The motor vehicle to exceed 30 kilometres per hour; (b) When travelling through a playground zone between dawn and dusk, the Operator must not allow the motor vehicle to exceed 30 kilometres per Hour;
(c) When travelling on any part of an industrial road in respect of which There is a speed limit posted by the industrial road administrator, The operator must not allow the motor vehicle to exceed the posted Speed limit; (d) When travelling on any part of an industrial road in respect of which There is no posted speed limit, the operator must not allow the motor Vehicle to exceed 80 kilometres per hour.
[en. b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 19.] Meeting school bus 69 (1) In this section, "school bus" Means a bus that displays, on the bus or on a sign attached to the Bus, wording designating the bus as a school bus.
(2) The driver of a motor vehicle on an industrial road who encounters a School bus that has stopped on the industrial road must, if there is, On or near the school bus, a sign or signal indicating that the school Bus is receiving or discharging school children, stop the motor Vehicle before reaching the school bus and not proceed until (a) The school bus resumes motion, or (b) The driver of the school bus signals to the driver of the motor Vehicle that it is safe for the driver of the motor vehicle to Proceed.
[en. b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 6.] Repealed
70-83 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 225/2004, s. 7.] General accident prevention regulations, published by the workers' Compensation board, regarding motor truck logging Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 20.] Appendix
Schedules a to e, l, s, t, u, x to z, bt-75, sx, l-75, t-75 and the Hose and tubing schedule Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 20.] General information Repealed. [b.c. reg. 335/2004, s. 20.] [provisions of the Industrial roads act , industrial roads act, r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 189, s. 28.]