View complete regulation B.c. reg. 296/97 Workers' compensation board Deposited september 8, 1997 Effective april 15, 1998 This consolidation is current to november 28, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after november 28, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Workers compensation act Occupational health and safety regulation [last amended march 1, 2023 by b.c. reg. 223/2022] Part 14 — cranes and hoists Definitions
14.1 In this part:
"chimney hoist" Means a temporary hoist used for transporting personnel or materials During the construction of a chimney or similar structure; "construction material hoist" Means a material hoist consisting of a guiding and supporting Structure and hoist equipment that is not a permanent part of a Building, structure, or other work and that is installed and used During construction, alteration, or demolition to raise and lower Materials required for the project; "critical lift" Means
(a) A lift by a mobile crane or boom truck that exceeds 90% of its rated Capacity while it is lifting the load at a load radius of more than 50% of its maximum permitted load radius, taking into account its Position and configuration during the lift, (b) A tandem lift if the load on any one crane, hoist or other piece of Powered lifting equipment exceeds 75% of the rated capacity of that Crane, hoist or other piece of powered lifting equipment, (c) A tandem lift involving the simultaneous use of more than two cranes, Hoists or other pieces of powered lifting equipment, (d) A lift of a person in a work platform suspended from or attached to a Crane or hoist, (e) A lift in which the centre of gravity of the load changes during the Lift,
(f) A lift in which the length of one or more sling legs changes during a Lift,
(g) A lift by a crane, boom truck or hoist, supported on a floating base, That exceeds 90% of rated capacity for the lifting system, (h) A lift of a load over or between energized high voltage electrical Conductors, or (i) A lift of a submerged load; "duty cycle work" Means
(a) The use of a crane to do dragline work, clamshell work, dynamic Compaction work or pile driving work, including pile extraction using A vibratory pile extraction device, or (b) The use of a crane with an electromagnet or grapple for the handling Of scrap metal and other similar materials; "load bearing component" Means any component that transfers load through a crane or hoist to The surface supporting the crane or hoist; "sign truck" Means a truck that is (a) Capable of acting as a crane and as an aerial ladder, and (b) Used as a work platform or used for hoisting loads or accessing a work Location;
"tandem lift" Means a lift using (a) More than one crane or one hoist, or (b) A crane or hoist and another piece of powered lifting equipment.
[am. b.c. regs. 320/2007, app. e, s. 1; 188/2011, app. f, s. 1; 9/2017, app. i, s. 2.] Application
14.1.1 (1) This part applies to a crane or hoist of a type required to meet a Standard specified in section 14.2 and to any other equipment with a Different primary design function that is being used in a hoisting or Lifting application.
(2) Except as otherwise specifically provided, this part applies to Logging equipment that uses a load line for lifting.
(3) This part does not apply to a front end loader, an excavator or other Earth moving equipment that is being used (a) In applications consistent with its primary design purpose, or (b) During a lifting task incidental to its primary design purpose if the Manuals and operating instructions of the manufacturer of that Equipment provide criteria for that lifting task.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 2.] General requirements Standards
14.2 (1) Except as otherwise required by this regulation, a crane or hoist must Be designed, constructed, erected, disassembled, inspected, maintained And operated as specified by the manufacturer or a professional Engineer, and to meet the requirements of the applicable standard Listed in subsections (2) to (15).
(2) A bridge, jib, monorail, gantry or overhead travelling crane must meet The design requirements for electrical components and functions of Csa standard c22.1-94, canadian electrical code , part 1, section 40 and Csa standard c22.2 no. 33-m1984 (reaffirmed 1992), construction and Test of electric cranes and hoists .
(3) A bridge, jib, monorail, gantry or overhead travelling crane must meet The design requirements of (a) Ansi standard mh27.1-2003, specifications for patented track Underhung cranes and monorail systems , (b) Crane manufacturers association of america (cmaa) specifications for Top running bridge & gantry type multiple girder electric Overhead traveling cranes — no. 70 (2004) , or (c) Crane manufacturers association of america (cmaa) specifications for Top running and under running single girder electric overhead cranes Utilizing under running trolley hoist — no. 74 (2004) .
(4) A bridge, jib, monorail, gantry or overhead travelling crane must meet The safety requirements of (a) Csa standard b167-96, safety standard for maintenance and inspection Of overhead cranes, gantry cranes, monorails, hoists, and trolleys , (b) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.2-2005, overhead and gantry cranes (top Running bridge, single or multiple girder, top running trolley Hoist)
, (c) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.11-2004, monorails and underhung cranes , (d) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.16-2003, overhead hoists (underhung) , or (e) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.17-2003, overhead and gantry cranes (top Running bridge, single girder, underhung hoist) .
(5) A mobile crane, telescoping or articulating boom truck or sign truck Must meet the requirements of (a) Csa standard z150-1998, safety code for mobile cranes , (b) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.5-2004, mobile and locomotive cranes , or (c) Ansi standard ansi/asme b30.22-2005, articulating boom cranes .
(6) A tower, hammerhead crane or self erecting tower crane must meet the Requirements of Csa standard z248-2004, code for tower cranes .
(7) A portal, tower or pillar crane must meet the requirements of Ansi standard asme b30.4-2003, portal, tower, and pedestal cranes .
(8) A construction material hoist, other than a light duty portable Material hoist, must meet the requirements of Csa standard can/csa-z256-m87, safety code for material hoists .
(9) A chimney hoist must meet the requirements of worksafebc standard 14.116 — chimney hoists, set out in schedule 14-a.
(10) A base mounted drum hoist must meet the requirements of Ansi standard asme b30.7-2001, base mounted drum hoists .
(11) A guy, stiffleg, basket, breast, gin pole, chicago boom, shearleg or A-frame derrick must meet the requirements of Ansi standard asme b30.6-2003, derricks .
(12) A side boom tractor used for pipe laying or similar operations must Meet the requirements of Ansi standard asme b30.14-2004, side boom tractors .
(13) A manually lever operated hoist must meet the requirements of Ansi standard b30.21-2005, manually lever operated hoists .
(14) A patient lift must meet the requirements of Csa standard can/csa z10535-03, hoists for the transfer of disabled Persons-requirements and test methods .
(15) A crane or hoist of a type not covered by the standards specified in Subsections (2) to (14) must meet good engineering practice and be Able to safely perform its function.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. a, s. 19; 320/2007, app. e, s. 3; 188/2011, app. l, s. 2; 9/2017, app. i, s. 3; 222/2021, app. c, s. 1.] Identification
14.3 (1) A crane or hoist must be permanently identified by the legible display Of the manufacturer's name, model and serial number on the structure.
(2) Each major interchangeable structural component of a crane or hoist Must be uniquely identified and must be legibly marked to enable Confirmation that the component is compatible with the crane or hoist.
(3) If a crane or hoist was not commercially manufactured and does not Have a model number or serial number, the crane or hoist must not be Used unless engineering documentation signed by a professional Engineer, including technical specifications and instructions for use, Are available at the workplace where the crane or hoist is being used.
(4) A crane or hoist described in subsection (3) must be identified in a Manner that links the engineering documentation referred to in that Subsection with that crane or hoist.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 4.] Repealed
14.4 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 5.] Rated capacity indication 14.5 (1) The rated capacity of a crane or hoist, other than a crane or hoist to Which subsection (2) or (3) applies, must be permanently indicated on Each of the following:
(a) The superstructure; (b) The hoist; (c) The load block.
(2) The rated capacity of a monorail crane must be permanently indicated On each of the following:
(a) The hoist; (b) The load block; (c) The monorail beam, at intervals not exceeding 10 m (33 ft.).
(3) If the rated capacity of a crane or hoist is affected by (a) The vertical or horizontal angle of a boom or jib, (b) The length of a boom or jib, (c) The position of a load supporting trolley, or (d) The use or position of outriggers to increase the stability of the Structure,
A load chart must be permanently posted on the crane or hoist or must Be issued to the crane or hoist operator who must keep it available at All times when operating the crane or hoist.
(4) A load chart under subsection (3) must indicate the rated capacity for The crane or hoist for the working positions and configurations in use And must be in a legible condition.
[am. b.c. regs. 320/2007, app. e, s. 6; 9/2017, app. j, s. 1.] Repealed
14.6 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 7.] Boom angle indicator 14.7 A crane or hoist with a boom movable in the vertical plane must have a Device to indicate the boom angle if the rated capacity is affected by The boom angle, and the device must be readable by the operator at the Control station.
Boom extension and load radius indicators 14.8 A crane or hoist must have a means or device to indicate the boom Extension or load radius if the rated capacity of the equipment is Affected by boom extension or load radius.
Logging exemption 14.9 Specialized equipment designed and used only for logging operations is Exempt from the requirements of sections 14.5 to 14.8.
Reeved-in devices 14.10 The rated capacity of a crane or hoist with reeved-in lifting devices Must be the net capacity of the equipment, except for mobile cranes.
Support structure 14.11 (1) The rated capacity of a crane or hoist must not exceed the rated Capacity of the structure supporting the crane or hoist.
(2) Selector switches or other effective means must be provided to ensure That the supporting structure is not overloaded by simultaneous use of Multiple cranes or hoists installed on the supporting structure.
[am. b.c. regs. 320/2007, app. e, s. 8; 9/2017, app. j, s. 2.] Manual and instructions 14.12 (1) In this section:
"engineer's instructions" Mean instructions, approved in writing by a professional engineer, for The assembly, erection, dismantling, maintenance, inspection and Operation of the component parts of a crane or hoist and of the Assembled crane or hoist; "manufacturer's manual" Means a manual, prepared by the manufacturer of a crane or hoist, that Describes the approved methods of assembly, erection, dismantling, Maintenance, inspection and operation of the component parts of the Crane or hoist and of the assembled crane or hoist.
(2) A crane or hoist must not be used unless the following is reasonably Accessible to the equipment operator and other persons inspecting or Maintaining the equipment at the workplace where the crane or hoist is To be used:
(a) The manufacturer's manual for the crane or hoist; (b) If the manufacturer's manual is not available, an engineer's Instructions for the crane or hoist.
(3) A crane or hoist must not be used unless the following is readily Available at the workplace where the crane or hoist is to be used:
(a) The portions of the manufacturer's manual related to the assembly, Erection, dismantling, inspection, routine maintenance and safe Operation of the crane or hoist; (b) If the portions of the manufacturer's manual referred to in paragraph (a) are not available, the portions of an engineer's instructions Related to the assembly, erection, dismantling, inspection, routine Maintenance and safe operation of the crane or hoist.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 9.] Inspection, maintenance and repair 14.13 (1) Each crane and hoist must be inspected and maintained at a frequency And to the extent required to ensure that every component is capable Of carrying out its original design function with an adequate margin Of safety.
(2) A crane or hoist must not be used until any condition that could Endanger workers is remedied.
(3) Any repair to load bearing components of a crane or hoist must be Certified by a professional engineer or the original equipment Manufacturer as having returned the component to a condition capable Of carrying out its original design function with an adequate margin Of safety.
(4) Maintenance or repair of a crane or hoist must be done by or under the Direct supervision of a qualified person.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 10.] Inspection and maintenance records 14.14 Records of inspection and maintenance meeting the requirements of part 4 (general conditions) must be kept by the equipment operator and Other persons inspecting and maintaining the equipment, for (a) A crane or hoist with a rated capacity of 900 kg (2 000 lbs.) or More,
(b) A crane or hoist used to support a worker, (c) A tower crane, (d) A mobile crane, boom truck or sign truck, (e) A side boom tractor or pipe layer, (f) A construction material hoist, (g) A chimney hoist, (g.1) A logging truck trailer reload hoist, and (h) Any other type of hoisting equipment specified by the board.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 11.] Modifications
14.15 (1) Each crane or hoist must be erected, dismantled, operated, adjusted, Inspected and maintained as specified by the manufacturer's manual Unless otherwise approved by the original equipment manufacturer or a Professional engineer.
(2) If a modification that affects the rated capacity or safe operation of A crane or hoist is made to its structure, to one of its mechanical Components or to its control system, the crane or hoist must (a) Be assessed, (b) Have its rated capacity adjusted as necessary, and (c) Be certified as safe for use.
(2.1) The assessment, rated capacity adjustment and certification under Subsection (2) must be carried out (a) In accordance with the applicable design or safety standard specified In section 14.2, and (b) By the original equipment manufacturer or a professional engineer.
(3) Modifications to a crane or hoist must be recorded in the inspection And maintenance records system and the equipment operation and Maintenance manuals must be revised as necessary to ensure that Adequate and appropriate information is available for safe use and Maintenance of the equipment.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 12.] Certification required 14.16 (1) Subsection (2) applies in respect of a crane or hoist if (a) The origin or rated capacity of the equipment is not available, (b) The continued safe use of the equipment cannot be assured because of Its condition, age or history, or (c) Modifications referred to in section 14.15 that affect the rated Capacity have been made to the crane or hoist.
(2) A person must not use a crane or hoist described in subsection (1) Unless a professional engineer has certified the rated capacity of the Crane or hoist in accordance with the applicable design or safety Standard specified in section 14.2.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 13.] Certification following misadventure 14.16.1 (1) In this section, "misadventure" Means
(a) A contact, other than a contact that is consistent with operation as Specified by the manufacturer or a professional engineer, (b) A shock load, (c) A loss of a load, (d) A brake failure, (e) An upset, or (f) Any other circumstance that may impair the safe operation of the crane Or hoist.
(2) If a crane or hoist has been subject to a misadventure, it must be Removed from service until a professional engineer has (a) Supervised an inspection of, and supervised any necessary repairs to, The equipment, and (b) Certified the equipment as safe for use at the manufacturer's rated Capacity for the equipment or as provided by section 14.16 if the Manufacturer's rated capacity is not available.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 13; am. b.c. reg. 223/2022, s. 1.] Access and egress 14.17 (1) A crane or hoist must have a safe means of access to and egress from (a) The operator's position, and (b) All maintenance and inspection locations on the crane and hoist.
(2) If the normal safe means of egress is not always available to the Operator during crane operations, an alternative safe means must be Provided for the operator to get from the operating position to a safe Area in the event of a power failure or other emergency.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 14.] Audible warning 14.18 (1) An effective audible warning device must be installed on a crane or Hoist, unless the hoisting equipment is operated using a pendant or Remote control and the operator walks in a safe position near the Load.
(2) The operator of a crane or hoist must sound a warning signal when it Is necessary to alert workers to hoisting operations.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 15.] Drop stops 14.19 (1) A top-running crane, under-running crane, wheel- or rail-mounted Gantry crane, tower crane and monorail hoist must have a means to Limit the drop of the crane, trolley and bridge truck frames to 25 mm (1 in.) if a tire, wheel or axle fails.
(2) Drop stops must be able to support the trolley, bridge and gantry with The crane or hoist loaded to its rated capacity and must be certified To be able to do so by the original equipment manufacturer or a Professional engineer.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 16.] Rail end stops 14.20 (1) End stops must be provided on crane and hoist tracks and rails to Prevent the equipment running off the end of the rail or track.
(2) The stops must contact the truck frame or be of a height of at least 1/2 the diameter of the wheels if the wheels contact the stops.
Fenders
14.21 (1) Fenders must be provided on a crane or hoist which operates on rails If there is a possibility of injury to workers from contact with the Equipment wheels moving along the rail.
(2) Fenders required by subsection (1) must effectively deflect any object From the path of the wheel.
Securing pins 14.22 A heel-pin, sheave-pin, shackle-pin or similar device must be secured Against inadvertent dislodgment, in the manner specified by the Equipment manufacturer or by the professional engineer who designed And certified the equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 17.] Boom stops 14.23 (1) Positive boom stops must be provided on a crane or hoist with a boom That may fall over backward.
(2) A boom hoist disconnect, shutoff or hydraulic relief must be provided On a crane or hoist to automatically stop the boom hoist when the boom Reaches the maximum boom operating angle specified by the manufacturer And before the boom stops are contacted.
(3) A jib on a crane or hoist must be restrained from backward Overturning.
Molten metal 14.24 A crane or hoist that handles molten metal must have 2 holding brakes On the hoist mechanism.
Repealed
14.25 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 19/2006, s. 7.] Sheave guards 14.26 A running line sheave on a crane or hoist must have a device to retain The rope in the sheave groove.
Ungrounded supply 14.27 An electrically powered crane receiving its source of power from an Ungrounded supply must have a ground fault indication system that is Monitored on a routine basis.
Controls
14.28 (1) Each control for a crane or hoist must have its function clearly Identified and must be maintained in good condition.
(2) Each control for a crane or hoist that causes load movement must Return to neutral when pressure from the operator is released.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a crane or hoist manufactured before January 1, 2000 for which continuous pressure controls were not Previously required.
(4) Each control for a crane or hoist must be located to allow safe Operation of the equipment and if the control is not located in a cab It must be located to provide a safe distance between the operator and The load being handled.
(5) A pendant control for a crane or hoist must be supported independently From its electrical conductors.
(6) A remote control panel for a crane or hoist must be designed to Safeguard effectively against the unintended activation of the crane Or hoist.
(7) A wireless remote control system for a crane or hoist must incorporate (a) Error checking to prevent the controlled equipment from responding to Corrupt data, and (b) Identification coding methods to prevent a transmitter other than the Designated transmitter for that crane or hoist from operating the Equipment.
(8) A remote control system for a crane or hoist must be designed to Ensure the following:
(a) If the power to the remote control system is removed for any reason, All crane or hoist functions stop; (b) If the control signal for any crane or hoist motion becomes Ineffective, the crane or hoist motion stops; (c) The remote control panel has an operator controlled emergency stop Feature that (i) Permits the operator to stop all crane or hoist movement regardless of A malfunction within the remote control system, and (ii) Requires resetting of the emergency stop feature before equipment Operation can resume.
(9) A remote control panel for a crane or hoist must be marked to identify The corresponding base control unit to be used with it.
(10) The maximum distance between a remote control panel and the crane or Hoist being operated by the remote control system must (a) Not exceed the limit specified by the control system manufacturer, and (b) Be communicated to the operator before the operator uses the crane or Hoist.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 18.] Operator protection 14.29 The operator of a crane or hoist must be protected against hazardous Conditions such as falling or flying objects and excessive heat or Cold that could adversely affect the health or safety of the operator.
Cab windows 14.30 (1) Cab windows on a mobile crane must be made of safety glazing materials Meeting the requirements of Ansi/sae z26.1-1996, american national standard for safety glazing Materials for glazing motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment Operating on land highways — safety standard .
(2) Cab windows on a hoist or crane, other than a mobile crane, must be Laminated glass, tempered glass, wired glass or clear polycarbonate Plastic.
(3) Operator cab windows on a crane or hoist must (a) Be kept clear, (b) Provide an unobstructed field of vision toward the load hook, and (c) Have window wipers, if necessary to maintain a clear view through the Window.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. a, s. 5; 320/2007, app. e, s. 19; 139/2021, app. d, s. 8.] Operator's seat 14.31 The operator's seat on a crane or hoist must be of a design that Allows the operator to safely operate the equipment and the seat must Be kept in good condition.
Storage
14.32 (1) The operator's cab of a crane or hoist must be kept free of Unnecessary tools, material or equipment.
(2) Adequate storage facilities must be provided if it is necessary to Keep tools or equipment in the operator's cab of a crane or hoist.
Fire extinguisher 14.33 A fire extinguisher having at least a 10 bc rating must be immediately Available in the cab of each crane.
Equipment operation Operator qualifications 14.34 (1) A crane or hoist must only be operated by a qualified person who has Been instructed to operate the equipment.
(2) A person must demonstrate competency, including familiarity with the Operating instructions for the crane or hoist and the code of signals For hoisting operations authorized by the board before operating the Equipment.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 243/2006, s. 8 (b).] [am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. f, s. 4; 243/2006, s. 8.] Operator certification 14.34.1 On and after july 1, 2007, a mobile crane, tower crane or boom truck Must be operated only (a) By a person with a valid operator's certificate issued by a person Acceptable to the board, and (b) In accordance with any conditions stipulated on the certificate.
[en. b.c. reg. 243/2006, s. 9.] Pre-use inspection 14.35 (1) Before an operator uses a crane or hoist, the operator must ensure That
(a) The crane or hoist was inspected for that work shift, and (b) The control and safety devices were tested for that work shift.
(1.1) The inspection and testing in subsection (1) must be carried out in The manner specified (a) By the manufacturer, (b) In the applicable design or safety standards set out in section 14.2, And
(c) In this regulation.
(2) Any defects found during inspection or use of a crane or hoist must be Recorded in the inspection and maintenance record system and be Reported immediately to the supervisor, who must determine the course Of action to be taken.
(3) If a defect affects the safe operation of the crane or hoist, the Equipment must not be used until the defect has been remedied.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 20.] Load weight 14.36 (1) The weight of each load to be hoisted by a crane or hoist must be Determined and communicated to the equipment operator and to any Person rigging the load.
(2) If the weight of a load to be lifted cannot be accurately determined, The crane or hoist to be used for the lift must have a load weight Indicator or an overload prevention system.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to logging equipment that is Being used to lift logs or to lift a log trailer.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 21.] Calibration
14.37 (1) The following devices or systems on a crane or hoist must be Calibrated at the intervals specified by the manufacturer and whenever There is an indication the device or system is not functioning Correctly:
(a) A load weighing device; (b) A load moment indicator; (c) An overload prevention system.
(2) The dates of calibration under subsection (1) must be recorded in the Inspection and maintenance records system for the crane or hoist.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 22.] Operator's duties 14.37.1 The operator of a crane, hoist or boom truck must have full control of The equipment controls whenever the hoisting equipment is in use, and Engage in no other duties while operating the equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. d, s. 1.] Safe lifting 14.38 (1) The rated capacity of a crane or hoist must not be exceeded.
(2) The operator of a crane or hoist must not move a load unless the Operator is satisfied that the load can be handled safely.
(3) A load must be secured during a lift to ensure that all or any part of The load cannot be dislodged.
(4) A load line on a crane or hoist must not contact anything other than The load block or hook and the sheaves and hoist drum.
(5) Tag lines or other effective means must be used when necessary to Control hazardous movement of a load or to assist with positioning a Load.
(6) If a crane or hoist is being operated at the same time and in the same Location as other work activity, the employer or the prime contractor Must organize and control the work of any persons who are not involved In that operation to ensure that the operation can be carried out Safely.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 23.] Repealed
14.39 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 223/2022, s. 2.] Swing and shear hazards 14.40 (1) If a hazard is created by the swing or shearing movement of a load, Cab, counterweight or any other part of a crane or hoist, the operator Of the crane or hoist must not move the equipment when a person is Within range of the swing or shearing movement of the load or Equipment.
(2) If a hazard is created by the swing or shearing movement of a load, Cab, counterweight or any other part of a crane or hoist, a person Must not enter or remain within the range of the swing or shearing Movement of the load or equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 25.] Position of equipment 14.41 (1) Equipment must be positioned so that no moving part of the equipment Will come within 60 cm (2 ft) of any obstruction in any Area accessible to workers.
(2) If the clearance required by subsection (1) cannot be provided, entry To such areas must be prevented by barriers or other effective means.
Tandem lift 14.42 (1) If a tandem lift is a critical lift or if the lifted load is to be Moved laterally, the tandem lift must be carried out under the Direction of a qualified supervisor who (a) Is not operating a crane, hoist or other piece of powered lifting Equipment, and (b) Is responsible for the safe conduct of the operation.
(2) A written lift plan must be prepared for every tandem lift and must be Available at the worksite during the lift.
(3) The lift plan required in subsection (2) must include the following:
(a) Rigging details; (b) Wind speed limitations; (c) Maximum hoist line speed; (d) Maximum crane travel speed, if applicable; (e) Load distribution; (f) The need for and position of signallers.
(4) If a tandem lift involves the use of a tower crane, the lift plan Required in subsection (2) must be certified by a professional Engineer.
(5) At a pre-job meeting held immediately before commencing hoisting Operations for a tandem lift, the lift plan required in subsection (2) Must be communicated to all people involved and the supervisor must Document the meeting.
(6) The pre-job meeting required under subsection (5) must be repeated Whenever there is a change in the people or equipment involved in the Tandem lift.
(7) Effective communication must be established and maintained between all People involved in a tandem lift.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 26.] Critical lift 14.42.1 (1) A written lift plan must be prepared for every critical lift and must Be available at the worksite during the lift.
(2) The written lift plan required in subsection (1) must include the Following:
(a) Rigging details; (b) Wind speed limitations; (c) Maximum hoist line speed; (d) Maximum crane travel speed, if applicable; (e) Load distribution; (f) The need for and position of signallers.
(3) At a pre-job meeting held immediately before commencing hoisting Operations for a critical lift, the lift plan required in subsection (1) must be communicated to all people involved and the supervisor Must document the meeting.
(4) The pre-job meeting required under subsection (3) must be repeated Whenever there is a change in the people or equipment involved in the Critical lift.
(5) Effective communication must be established and maintained between all People involved in a critical lift.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 27.] Travelling with a load 14.43 (1) When a crane or hoist is travelling with a load, the operator of the Crane or hoist must ensure that the load is carried as close to the Ground or grade as possible and rigged to control load swing.
(2) When a crane or hoist is travelling with a load, adequate safety Measures must be taken to ensure people are not endangered by the Movement of the crane, hoist or load.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 28.] Loads over work areas 14.44 (1) If practicable, work must be arranged to prevent passing a load over Any person.
(2) A crane or hoist operator must not pass a load over a person unless no Practicable alternative exists and then only after the person has been Warned of the danger by an audible alarm or other effective means.
(3) A person working at a workplace must not stand under or pass beneath a Suspended load.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 29.] Unattended loads 14.45 A load must not be left suspended from or supported by a crane or Hoist when an operator is not at the controls.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 30.] Vertical load line 14.46 The load line above the load hook or the load block of a crane or Hoist must be kept vertical when lifting a load in order to prevent Side loading of the crane or the load swinging.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 31.] Signals
14.47 (1) When the operator of a crane or hoist does not have a clear and Unobstructed view of the boom, jib, load line, load hook and load Throughout the whole range of the hoisting operation, the operator Must act only on the directions of a qualified signaller who has a Clear view of the things the operator cannot see.
(2) The operator of the crane or hoist must stop the operation of the Equipment on receiving a stop signal from any person.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 32.] Alternative to hand signals 14.48 (1) Two-way radio or other audio or video systems acceptable to the board Must be used if distance, atmospheric conditions or other Circumstances make the use of hand signals hazardous or impracticable.
(2) Audio and video communication systems used in a hoisting operation Must be designed, installed, operated and maintained according to a Standard acceptable to the board.
Dedicated radio system 14.49 (1) A two-way radio system, used for communications between the operator Of a tower crane or a self erecting tower crane and the riggers and Signallers working with that operator, must operate on a frequency and At a transmitter power assigned and coordinated by the board or by a Person acceptable to the board.
(2) Multi-channel radios are not permitted for use to direct crane or Hoist movement.
(3) Only the operator of the crane and the riggers and signallers working With the operator may have the capability to transmit on the radio Frequency assigned under subsection (1).
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 33.] Communication between equipment operators 14.49.1 If, during the operation of a crane or hoist, another piece of Equipment is operating in the vicinity and has the reach to interfere With the movement of the crane or hoist, or the load being handled, (a) Each operator must have effective voice communication with every other Operator, and (b) Written procedures must be developed and implemented to ensure Coordination of the operation of the equipment to prevent any contact Between a component or suspended load of the equipment and a component Or suspended load of the crane or hoist.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 34; am. b.c. reg. 223/2022, s. 3.] Unhooking loads 14.50 A load on a crane or hoist load hook must be safely landed and Supported, before being unhooked.
Riding hook or load 14.51 A worker must not ride on a load, sling, hook or any other rigging Equipment.
Induced voltage 14.52 (1) Before a crane or hoist is operated near a source such as a radio Transmitter or energized high voltage electrical equipment which may Induce an electric charge which could pose a hazard to workers, the Following precautions must be implemented:
(a) The crane or hoist must be effectively grounded; (b) Any induced electric charge on the load must be dissipated by applying Grounding cables or by other effective means before workers contact The load; (c) Flammable materials must be removed from the immediate work area.
(2) Subsection (1) (a) and (b) does not apply if work is being performed On a power system in accordance with the requirements of part 19 (electrical safety).
Work near high voltage 14.52.1 A crane or hoist must be operated in a manner that prevents any part Of the crane or hoist, load line, rigging or load from coming within The minimum distance of energized high voltage electrical conductors Or equipment as specified in part 19.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 34.] Repealed
14.53 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. d, s. 12.] Bridge, gantry and overhead travelling cranes Operational and running tests 14.54 (1) This section applies to (a) A bridge crane, gantry crane or overhead travelling crane that was Installed after january 1, 1999, and (b) A crane referred to in paragraph (a) or its runway that has been Reinstalled, modified or rebuilt.
(1.1) The following tests must be performed before the equipment described In subsection (1) is used for the first time after it has been Installed, reinstalled, modified or rebuilt, as applicable:
(a) All crane motions, holding brakes and travel brakes must be tested to Meet the manufacturer's specifications and the requirements of the Applicable design or safety standard for when the hook is carrying a Load at rated capacity; (b) All circuits, controls, interlocks and sequences of operation of the Equipment must be tested to ensure they are functioning properly; (c) All crane motions, holding brakes and travel brakes must be tested to Prove the crane's ability to safely handle a load of 125% of the Crane's rated capacity; (d) All limit switches, brakes and other protective devices must be tested To ensure they function properly when the crane is carrying a load of 100% of the rated capacity; (e) Structural deflection must be measured with a load of 100% of the Rated capacity and must not exceed the allowable deflection specified By the applicable design standard; (f) The load must be travelled over the full length of the bridge and Trolley runways during the load tests at 100% and 125% of rated Capacity, and only the parts of runways that have been successfully Load tested may be placed into service.
(2) A record of all load tests must be included in the equipment record System giving details of the tests and verification of the loads used, And be signed by the person conducting the tests.
(3) A replacement crane or hoist to be installed on an existing runway may Be load tested in the manufacturer's facility and installed on the Existing runway provided that the rated capacity of the replacement Crane or hoist and the loads imposed on the runway by the replacement Crane or hoist are equal to or less than the previously tested load Rating for the runway.
(4) In the circumstances set out in subsection (3), the existing runway is Not required to be load tested as required in subsection (1.1) unless The runway has been modified since it was previously load tested.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 35.] Detailed inspection 14.54.1 A bridge crane, gantry crane or overhead crane must be inspected by a Qualified person in accordance with (a) The inspection criteria specified by the manufacturer of the crane, (b) The applicable design or safety standard specified in section 14.2, And
(c) The requirements of this regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 36.] Uptravel limit 14.55 (1) A bridge, gantry or other overhead travelling crane must have a device Which will prevent hook travel beyond the safe upper limit at all Design hoist speeds.
(2) The device required by subsection (1) must be tested at the beginning Of each shift.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 37.] Electrical conductors 14.56 Electrical conductors for the bridge and trolley must be located or Guarded to prevent contact by workers.
Power shutoff 14.57 An electrically powered crane, other than a monorail crane built prior To january 1, 1985, must have a means for the operator to safely Interrupt the main electric circuit under any load condition and this Means must require a manual reset before power is restored to the Crane.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 38.] Direction markings 14.58 A bridge, gantry, or overhead travelling crane operated by a pendant Or remote control must have markings on the crane structure or Building, visible to the operator, clearly indicating the direction of Hook, bridge and trolley motions compatible with those marked on the Controls.
Pneumatically powered hoists and winches Pneumatically powered hoists 14.59 (1) The air supply for a pneumatically powered hoist or winch must (a) Be sufficient to safely operate the hoist, and (b) Not exceed the maximum allowable pressure for the operation of the Hoist, as specified by the hoist manufacturer.
(2) Air supply hoses for a pneumatically powered hoist or winch must be Secured against inadvertent disconnection.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 39.] Repealed
14.60 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. e, s. 7.] Manually powered hoists Brakes
14.61 A manually powered hoist must have a ratchet and pawl, load brake, or Other mechanism to hold the load at any height.
Crank handles 14.62 The crank handle for a crank operated winch without automatic load Brakes must be (a) Prevented from slipping off the crankshaft while hoisting, and (b) Removed from the crankshaft before the load is lowered.
Mobile cranes, boom trucks and sign trucks Repealed
14.63 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. d, s. 13.] Load weight indicators 14.64 (1) A mobile crane or boom truck with a rated capacity of 10 tonnes (11 Tons) or more must have a device that measures and indicates the Weight of the load on the load hook or disengages crane functions Whose movement can cause the mobile crane or boom truck to lift beyond The rated capacity.
(2) A load indicating device required by subsection (1) must meet the Requirements of Ansi/sae recommended practice j376-apr85, load indicating devices in Lifting crane service .
(3) A crane being used for duty cycle work is exempt from the requirements Of subsection (1) if the load applied to the crane is safely below the Rated capacity of the crane and if the possibility of an unexpected Overload does not exist.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. a, s. 4; 320/2007, app. e, s. 40.] Repealed
14.65 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 41.] Level turntable 14.66 (1) A mobile crane or boom truck must be operated with the crane turntable Or boom truck frame level, unless the manufacturer provides that it May be operated otherwise.
(2) Level indicating devices must be provided to permit the operator of a Mobile crane or boom truck to determine whether the crane turntable or Boom truck frame is level within the limits specified by the Manufacturer.
(3) When a mobile crane or boom truck is operating on a floating support, The rated capacity must be determined by a professional engineer or The manufacturer of the crane or boom truck, taking into account the List and trim characteristics of the floating support and the mobile Crane or boom truck operating together as a system.
(4) When a mobile crane or boom truck is used on a floating support, a Device to measure the list of the floating support must be provided And located so it can be read by the operator from the operator's Position for the mobile crane or boom truck.
(5) A mobile crane or boom truck being used on a floating support must be Blocked and secured as necessary to prevent it from shifting relative To the bearing surface of the floating support.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 42.] Outriggers and stabilizers 14.67 (1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. b, s. 24 (b).] (2) Outrigger beams and stabilizers on a crane or boom truck must be Marked to indicate when the necessary extension has been achieved.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. b, s. 24 (b).] (4) Floats must be secured to the outrigger jacks of a crane or boom truck When outriggers are used.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. b, s. 24; 320/2007, app. e, s. 43.] Tires
14.68 Mobile crane or boom truck tire type, condition and inflation must be As specified by the manufacturer when lifting on rubber.
Supporting surface 14.69 (1) A mobile crane or boom truck must be used only on a surface capable of Safely supporting the equipment and any hoisted load.
(2) If a mobile crane or boom truck will be used adjacent to an Excavation, slope or backfilled area, a qualified person must Determine the location for the equipment for hoisting operations.
(3) In subsection (2), "adjacent to an excavation" Has the same meaning as in section 20.1.
(4) Blocking, shoring or cribbing must be sized and used as necessary to Ensure the load from a mobile crane or boom truck support does not Exceed the bearing capacity of the supporting surface.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 44.] Travelling with a load 14.70 A mobile crane or boom truck may travel with a suspended load only if (a) The crane manufacturer specifies load ratings for this operation, and (b) The operation is carried out in accordance with the manufacturer's Instructions for this operation.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 45.] Annual inspection 14.71 (1) A mobile crane or boom truck must be inspected at least once every 12 Months in accordance with good engineering practice to ensure it meets (a) The crane or boom truck manufacturer's specifications, (b) The requirements of the applicable design or safety standard specified In section 14.2, and (c) The requirements of this regulation.
(2) A mobile crane or boom truck must not be used after an inspection Under subsection (1) unless a professional engineer certifies it is Safe for use on the basis of that inspection.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 46.] Boom inspection 14.72 (1) A crane boom used with a vibratory hammer for driving piles must be Inspected at least once every 3 months in accordance with good Engineering practice to ensure it meets (a) The crane boom manufacturer's specifications, (b) The requirements of the applicable design or safety standard specified In section 14.2, and (c) The requirements of this regulation.
(2) A crane boom used with a vibratory pile extractor or with a drop Hammer or used for dynamic compaction must be inspected at least once A month in accordance with good engineering practice to ensure it Meets
(a) The crane boom manufacturer's specifications, (b) The requirements of the applicable design or safety standard specified In section 14.2, and (c) The requirements of this regulation.
(3) A boom must not be used after an inspection under subsection (1) or (2) unless a professional engineer certifies it is safe for use on the Basis of that inspection.
(4) A crane used in any operation described in subsection (1) or (2) must Not be returned to lifting service unless a professional engineer Inspects the crane and certifies that it is safe for such use.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 47.] Sign trucks 14.73 (1) A sign truck must be inspected, maintained and operated according to The requirements for mobile cranes, and for elevating work platforms In part 13 (ladders, scaffolds and temporary work platforms).
(2) When a sign truck is being used, the load rating charts for the Configuration in use must be available at the workplace.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 48.] Tower cranes Definition
14.73.1 In sections 14.73.2 to 14.93, "tower crane" Means a tower crane that is erected on site from component parts or That is self erecting.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 49.] Tower crane erection 14.73.2 The erection, climbing and dismantling of a tower crane must be done By qualified persons and in accordance with the instructions of (a) The crane manufacturer, or (b) A professional engineer, if the installation varies from the crane Manufacturer's instructions.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 49.] Tower crane support 14.74 (1) The foundation for support of a tower crane must be certified by a Professional engineer.
(2) The design of shoring and bracing to support a tower crane must be Certified by a professional engineer, and the shoring and bracing must Be constructed as specified by the design.
(3) If a tower crane is supported partially or fully by, or connected to, A building or structure, the connections to and any bracing or shoring Of the building or structure necessary to support the tower crane must Be certified by a professional engineer.
(4) The bearing capacity of the supporting surface for a tower crane must Be determined by a professional engineer.
(5) The loads from a tower crane must be distributed onto its supporting Surface to prevent the bearing capacity of the supporting surface Being exceeded.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 50.] Before use 14.75 (1) Before a tower crane is put in service, the erector of the tower crane Must verify that the crane has been erected according to (a) The manufacturer's specifications, or (b) The specifications of a professional engineer, if the engineer has Authorized the crane to be erected otherwise.
(2) If a tower crane is not erected according to the manufacturer's Specifications, a professional engineer must certify before the crane Is put in service that (a) The variations from the manufacturer's specifications meet the Requirements of the applicable design or safety standard, (b) The load charts are adjusted as necessary, and (c) The crane is safe for use.
(3) The erector of a tower crane must adjust the overload prevention System as necessary to meet the load chart for the crane as erected.
(4) Before a tower crane, other than a self erecting tower crane, is put In service after its mast has been repositioned, a professional Engineer must certify that the parts of the crane affected by the Repositioning process have been properly installed and any required Reshoring for, and bracing to, the supporting structure is in place.
(5) Before a tower crane is put in service following its erection or the Repositioning of its mast, the person responsible for the erection of The crane or the repositioning of its mast must make available at the Workplace where the crane is installed a report verifying that (a) The certification documents required by section 14.74 and subsections (2) and (4) of this section are available at the workplace, and (b) The overload prevention system of the crane has been adjusted as Required in subsection (3), including specifying the load limits set For the various devices.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 51.] Identification
14.76 The interchangeable structural components of tower cranes must be Uniquely identified and that unique identification must be used when Referring to structural components in reports for inspection and Testing, and certifications for repairs and modifications.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 52.] Structural inspection 14.77 (1) Subject to subsection (4), before the erection of a tower crane, the Structural components of the crane must be (a) Inspected to determine their integrity by a qualified person using Non-destructive testing (ndt) methods meeting the requirements of the Canadian general standards board (cgsb), and (b) Certified by a professional engineer as safe for use after the Inspection in paragraph (a) and any necessary repairs.
(2) If a tower crane remains erected at a workplace for more than 12 Months,
(a) Its structural components must be inspected to determine their Integrity by a qualified person using ndt methods meeting the Requirements of the cgsb, and (b) After the inspection required by paragraph (a), the crane, including Any necessary repairs, must be certified by a professional engineer as Safe for use.
(3) If a tower crane is scheduled to be dismantled within 15 months of its Being erected, subsection (2) does not apply provided that a visual Inspection, conducted 12 months after erection of the crane and Supervised by a professional engineer, shows no evidence of cracking Or other structural weakness.
(4) A self erecting tower crane must be (a) Inspected visually by a qualified person each time it is erected, and (b) Inspected and certified under subsection (1) at least once every 12 Months.
(5) Subsection (3) does not apply to a self erecting tower crane.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. a, s. 20; 320/2007, app. e, s. 53.] Structures kept clean 14.78 Tower crane structures must be kept clean and free of concrete and Other debris that can hinder inspection and the base area must be Clear of debris and the accumulation of water.
Manual and records 14.79 The following documents respecting operation, inspection, maintenance And repair of a tower crane must be kept at the workplace where and While the crane is erected:
(a) The portions of the manufacturer's manual or engineer's instructions Required by section 14.12 (3); (b) All records dated from the date of structural certification under Section 14.77, including those specified in section 14.75 (5); (c) In the case of a self erecting tower crane, all records dated from the Date of the last certification of the crane.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 54.] Counterweights and ballasts 14.80 (1) Counterweights and ballasts used on a tower crane must be as specified By the original equipment manufacturer or by a professional engineer.
(2) Each counterweight and ballast element must be accurately weighed and The weight of the counterweight or element must be clearly and durably Marked on it.
(3) The weight of counterweight and any ballast installed on a tower crane Must be recorded in the report required by section 14.75 (5).
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 55.] Limit devices 14.81 (0.1) In this section:
"limit device" Means a device on a tower crane that is designed to control the loads Or motions of the crane, and includes the switches and devices Described in subsections (1) and (5); "warning device" Means a device, such as a visual signal, audio signal or gauge, Attached to a limit device that indicates when the limit device Malfunctions.
(1) A tower crane must have automatic travel limit switches and automatic Overload prevention devices that prevent overloading at any trolley Position, the load block from travelling beyond the highest allowable Position specified by the manufacturer and the trolley from travelling Beyond the allowable limit specified by the manufacturer.
(2) Subject to subsection (4), limit devices on a tower crane must be Tested before the crane is first used on each work shift (a) In accordance with the manufacturer's testing procedures, or (b) If the manufacturer's testing procedures are not available, in Accordance with testing procedures approved by a professional Engineer.
(3) Any malfunction of a limit device, warning device or safety device on A tower crane that is discovered after testing or at any other time Must be remedied before the crane is used.
(4) If it is not practicable, due to the configuration of the workplace, To position sufficient test weights to test the maximum load limit Switch before the crane is first used on each work shift, the maximum Load limit switch must (a) Be set to activate at a load of less than 80% of the maximum rated Capacity for the crane and tested using test blocks, and (b) Be reset to the maximum load limit for the crane and tested using test Blocks before making any lift that is greater than the load limit Setting established under paragraph (a).
(5) A tower crane with a luffing boom must have an automatic limit device That prevents the boom being raised beyond the maximum permitted boom Angle.
(6) In subsection (5), "luffing boom" Means a boom that is raised and lowered about a pivot point to change The load radius.
[am. b.c. regs. 320/2007, app. e, s. 56; 9/2017, app. k.] Test blocks 14.82 (1) Test blocks for testing overload prevention devices on a tower crane Must be available at the tower crane site.
(2) The weights of test blocks required by subsection (1) must be as Specified by (a) The crane manufacturer if the crane is erected in accordance with the Manufacturer's instructions, or (b) A professional engineer if the crane has been erected other than in Accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(2.1) The weight of each test block required by subsection (1) must be Accurately determined and durably and legibly marked on that block.
(3) Test blocks, including the lifting point, must be designed by the Crane manufacturer or a professional engineer.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 57.] Operator's cab 14.83 (1) The design, location and method of attaching a tower crane operator's Cab must be approved by the crane manufacturer or by a professional Engineer.
(2) The rated capacity of a tower crane must be adjusted as necessary if Using a cab type and location not approved by the crane manufacturer.
Monitoring jib swing 14.84 (1) The operator of a tower crane must have a clear view of the jib of the Crane whenever the jib is being slewed.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if a signaller or a rigger who is able To see the jib of the crane is in communication with the operator of The crane and provides directions to the operator.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 58.] Overlapping operating zones 14.84.1 (1) In this section:
"operating zone" Means,
(a) In the case of a tower crane, the complete circular area covered by The swing of the tower crane's jib as it rotates, and (b) In the case of any other equipment, the area covered by the swing or Movement of the equipment; "overlapping operating zone" Means the area where the operating zone of a tower crane intersects The operating zone of another tower crane or other piece of equipment.
(2) If practicable, an employer must ensure that a tower crane is erected To avoid creating an overlapping operating zone.
(3) If the operating zone of a tower crane overlaps the operating zone of Another tower crane, the following procedures apply:
(a) The cranes must be erected and maintained so that the lowest point of Any component of the higher crane is at least 3 m (10 ft.) Above the highest component of the lower crane that crosses into the Overlapping operating zone; (b) The boundaries of the overlapping operating zone must be marked so the Boundaries are visible to the operators of all the affected cranes; (c) Any load suspended by the higher crane must be positioned at a Location that ensures at least 3 m (10 ft.) lateral Clearance between it and an operator's cab on the jib of the lower Crane;
(c.1) If practicable, each crane must be equipped with and operated under The control of a zone-limiting device with anti-collision control; (d) Written operating procedures in accordance with subsection (4) must be Developed and implemented to coordinate lifting tasks in the Overlapping operating zone to prevent contact between a component or Suspended load of one crane and a component or suspended load of Another crane.
(4) The procedures required by subsection (3) (d) must do the following:
(a) Minimize the time each crane spends in the overlapping operating zone; (b) Establish that the lower crane has priority for working in the Overlapping operating zone; (c) Establish that the operator of the higher crane requires temporary Permission from the operator of the lower crane for each lifting Sequence in the overlapping operating zone; (d) Establish a means and protocol for communication between the operators Of the cranes when a crane operates in the overlapping operating zone, Including a requirement for the operator of the higher crane to Contact the operator of the lower crane before the higher crane enters The zone; (e) Establish that, when the lower crane is being operated or when a Person is on the lower crane, the higher crane will not pass a load Over the lower crane unless (i) The activity meets one or both of the following criteria:
(a) The higher crane is being used to erect, service or dismantle the Lower crane; (b) There is a minimum clearance of 18 m (60 ft.) between the underside of The jib of the higher crane and the highest point on the lower crane That is within the tip radius of the higher crane, and (ii) Written operating procedures for the activity are developed and Implemented to ensure the safety of workers.
(5) If the operating zone of a tower crane overlaps the operating zone of Another piece of equipment with a reach capable of interfering with The movement of the crane or hoist, or the load being lifted, (a) Written operating procedures must be developed and implemented to Coordinate lifting tasks in the overlapping operating zone to prevent Contact between a component or suspended load of the tower crane and a Component or suspended load of the other equipment, and (b) The boundaries of the overlapping operating zone must be marked so the Boundaries are visible to the operators of all affected cranes and Equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 59; am. b.c. reg. 223/2022, s. 4.] Clearance and freedom to slew 14.85 (1) Except as otherwise required by this regulation, at all times and Under all load conditions, a tower crane must have vertical and Lateral clearances, between any component of the tower crane jib and Counter jib and any obstruction, that are the greater of (a) The vertical and lateral clearances specified by the crane Manufacturer, and (b) A vertical clearance of 1 m (3.3 ft.) and a lateral Clearance of 30 cm (1 ft.).
(2) At all times and unless otherwise specified by the crane manufacturer, A tower crane must be able to slew 360 degrees.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 60.] Repealed
14.86 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. j, s. 4.] Repealed
14.87 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 61.] Access
14.88 (1) A tower crane must have a fixed ladder installed in or on the mast to Provide access to the jib and crown of the crane.
(2) The ladder under subsection (1) must meet the following requirements:
(a) The ladder must be able to support two 1.1 kn (250 lbs.) point loads Between any two consecutive points where the ladder is attached to the Crane;
(b) There must be a minimum horizontal distance of 15 cm (6 in.) between The rungs and the object to which the ladder is attached; (c) Landing platforms must be provided at least every 9 m (30 ft.) on the ladder; (d) Each section of the ladder must be offset horizontally from adjacent Sections or the landing platforms must have trap doors; (e) If a section of the ladder has a climb exceeding 6 m (20 ft.) in length, that section of ladder must have a ladder Safety cage 68 cm to 76 cm (27 in. to 30 in.) in diameter or a ladder Safety device must be used.
(3) Each tower crane jib must have a continuous walkway from the mast to The tip.
(4) The walkway referred to in subsection (3) must meet the following Requirements:
(a) The walkway must be at least 30 cm (12 in.) wide and constructed with A non-skid surface; (b) A handline, which is approximately 1 m (39 in.) above the level Of the walkway, and a midline must be provided on both sides of the Walkway not more than 30 cm (12 in.) out from the edge of the walkway And supported at intervals not exceeding 3 m (10 ft.); (c) The handline and midline referred to in paragraph (b) must be wire Rope of at least 1 cm (3/8 in.) diameter; (d) If it is not practicable to provide handlines in accordance with Paragraph (b), alternative means of fall protection, such as a Horizontal lifeline system, must be provided in accordance with the Requirements of part 11 (fall protection) and must be set out in the Fall protection plan.
(5) If, due to the design or size of the tower crane, it is not Practicable to meet the requirements set out in subsections (1) to (4), alternative safe means of access must be provided.
(6) The climbing space of a tower crane mast must be clear of protruding Objects and must provide a safe and unobstructed passage.
(7) A written fall protection plan, which addresses the requirements of Fall protection when a person is operating, inspecting, servicing and Maintaining the tower crane, must be developed and implemented.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 61.] Repealed
14.89- 14.90 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 61.] Hoisting ropes 14.91 (1) A rotation resistant hoisting rope on a tower crane must be shortened By the removal of 3 m (10 ft) of rope at the dead end after Every 500 hours of use unless (a) Otherwise specified by the rope manufacturer, (b) The rope has 14 or more outer strands, or (c) The rope has a plastic coated inner core.
(2) The hoisting rope on a tower crane must be properly seized before Cutting.
(3) The equipment records for a tower crane must contain the following Information about the hoisting rope installed on the crane:
(a) The name of the manufacturer or supplier of the rope; (b) The type of rope installed as described by the rope construction, Number of outer strands, type of lay, direction of lay and type of Core;
(c) The diameter and the length of the rope; (d) The nominal or minimum rated breaking strength of the rope; (e) The rated working load limit for the rope; (f) The date the rope was installed; (g) If the rope was not new at the time of installation, the name of the Qualified person who inspected the rope before installation on the Crane to ensure that the rope was in a suitable condition for use as The hoist line on the crane; (h) The name of the qualified person who installed the rope.
[am. b.c. regs. 243/2006, s. 10; 320/2007, app. e, s. 62.] Wind limitations 14.92 (1) An anemometer must be mounted on the crown, apex or operator's cab of Each tower crane.
(2) The readout for the anemometer required by subsection (1) must be Readable by the operator while at the crane controls.
(3) Tower crane operations must stop when a load cannot be handled safely Because of wind.
(4) In the absence of the manufacturer's specifications for maximum Permitted wind speed during crane operation, the maximum allowable Wind speed in which a tower crane may be used is 50 km/h (30 mph), or Less if a load cannot be handled safely because of wind.
(5) A sign or other item that would increase the surface area of a crane Structure exposed to wind must not be installed unless authorized by The crane manufacturer or a professional engineer.
(6) A tower crane must not be erected, operated or dismantled when the Wind speed exceeds the upper limit specified by the crane manufacturer For erection, operation or dismantling of the crane.
[am. b.c. regs. 312/2003, app. b, s. 25; 320/2007, app. e, s. 63.] Temperature limitations 14.93 Tower crane operations must stop when the ambient temperature drops Below -18°c (0°f) or as otherwise specified by the crane manufacturer Or a professional engineer.
Repealed
14.94- 14.95 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 64.] Construction material hoists Certifications and instructions 14.96 (1) Before a construction material hoist is put into use, a professional Engineer must certify that (a) The hoist is safe for use, and (b) The installation of the hoist complies with (i) The design criteria for that installation, (ii) The hoist manufacturer's specifications, (iii) The requirements of Csa standard can/csa-z256-m87, safety code for material hoists , and (iv) The requirements of this regulation.
(2) If, after certification under subsection (1), a modification is made To the structure, mechanical components or control system of a Construction material hoist or it is changed through the addition or Removal of a support section of the hoist, the hoist must not be used Until it is recertified as safe for use by a professional engineer.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to a light duty portable material Hoist installed and operated in accordance with the hoist Manufacturer's instructions.
(4) A copy of the certifications required in subsections (1) and (2) or The manufacturer's instructions referred to in subsection (3) must be Available at the workplace where the hoist is installed.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 65.] Rider restriction 14.97 A worker must not ride on a construction material hoist unless it is Necessary to do so for inspection and maintenance of the hoist.
[am. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 66.] Notices
14.98 (1) The net rated capacity of each construction material hoist must be Clearly and durably marked upon the hoist structure in letters or Figures at least 5 cm (2 in) high in a location which is visible to Persons involved with operation of the hoist.
(2) Each construction material hoist must prominently display a notice Stating that no person may ride on the equipment.
Repealed
14.99- 14.115 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 67.] Chimney hoists Permission to use 14.116 If it is not practicable to provide safe access to a work platform on A chimney or similar structure using stairs or other means acceptable Under the Bc building code Or this regulation, a chimney hoist meeting the requirements of Worksafebc standard 14.116 — chimney hoists, set out in schedule 14-a, May be used to provide access for any person.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 67; am. b.c. reg. 188/2011, app.
L, s. 3.] Certification
14.117 (1) Before a chimney hoist is used, a professional engineer must certify That
(a) The chimney hoist is safe for use, and (b) The installation of the hoist complies with (i) The design criteria for that installation, (ii) The hoist manufacturer's specifications, (iii) The requirements of worksafebc standard 14.116 — chimney hoists, set Out in schedule 14-a, and (iv) The requirements of this regulation.
(2) A copy of the certification required in subsection (1) must be Available at the workplace where the chimney hoist is installed.
[en. b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 67; am. b.c. reg. 188/2011, app.
L, s. 4.] Support structures 14.118 The structure supporting a chimney hoist, together with all hoisting Gear and equipment, must be well constructed, accurately aligned, Securely anchored and have the required strength and stability to Safely withstand the loads imposed.
Load rating 14.119 The rated capacity of the hoist of a chimney hoist must be Conspicuously marked on the hoist and must not be exceeded.
[en. b.c. reg. 188/2011, app. l, s. 5.] Repealed
14.120- 14.132 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 320/2007, app. e, s. 69.] Schedule 14-a [en. b.c. reg. 188/2011, app. l, s. 6.] (sections 14.2 (9), 14.116 and 14.117) Worksafebc standard 14.116 — chimney hoists Scope
1 This standard sets out the minimum requirements that are in addition To those set out in sections 14.116 to 14.119 of this regulation for The design and use of a chimney hoist to transport personnel to a Fixed work platform on a chimney or similar structure.
Definitions and interpretation 2 (1) In this standard:
"cage" Means the fully enclosed platform of a chimney hoist, which platform Is used to raise or lower one or more persons to a fixed work platform On a chimney or similar structure; "hoist" , in respect of a chimney hoist, means the apparatus that is used to Raise or lower the cage; "rated capacity" , in respect of a cage or a hoist, means the maximum weight the cage Or hoist is rated by its manufacturer to carry.
(2) The definitions set out in Ansi/asse standard a10.22-2007, safety requirements for rope-guided And non-guided workers' hoists , apply in this standard.
General requirements 3 (1) A chimney hoist must (a) Be designed, constructed, erected, disassembled, inspected, maintained And operated as specified by the manufacturer or a professional Engineer, and (b) Meet the requirements of Ansi/asse standard a10.22-2007, safety requirements for rope-guided And non-guided workers' hoists , except as otherwise specified in this standard.
(2) A chimney hoist must have a cage.
Certification after alteration 4 (1) Following any alteration to a chimney hoist, other than ordinary Adjustments or repairs, (a) The chimney hoist must be tested by a professional engineer and Certified as required under section 14.117 of this regulation, and (b) The design documents and operating instructions must be updated by the Professional engineer as necessary to ensure the documentation is Complete and allows for safe use of the chimney hoist.
(2) A copy of the certification required under subsection (1) must be Available at the workplace where the chimney hoist is installed.
Emergency stopping devices 5 A chimney hoist must be outfitted with emergency stopping devices on At least two separate guide wire ropes that will apply automatically To prevent the cage from falling if a wire rope fails.
Safety factors 6 Suspension and guide wire ropes, supporting structures, slings and Metal fittings used on a chimney hoist must have a safety factor of 10.
Drive restrictions 7 A hoist must have a positive drive and there must not be a clutch Between the transmission and the hoist drum.
Brakes
8 A hoist must have two independent braking systems: one that applies Automatically when the controls are in the neutral position, and one That applies automatically in the event of loss of power.
Terminal stopping devices 9 A chimney hoist must have upper and lower terminal stopping devices That automatically stop the cage from normal travel speed, within the Top and bottom travel limits.
Speed governor 10 A hoist must have a governing device that will effectively prevent the Drum speed from exceeding 110% of the design speed.
Equipment condition 11 The hoist, wire ropes and cage of a chimney hoist must be in good Working order with all components, controls and functions meeting, and Operating in accordance with, the manufacturer's specifications, the Professional engineer's design specifications and this regulation.
Cage markings 12 The cage must be legibly marked to show (a) The name of the manufacturer or certifying professional engineer, (b) A unique identification number or code that links to the design and Certification documentation for the chimney hoist from the certifying Professional engineer, (c) The weight of the cage, and (d) The rated capacity of the cage.
Load restrictions 13 (1) The rated capacity of the cage must not be exceeded.
(2) A chimney hoist must not use a hoist with a rated capacity that is Less than the rated capacity of its cage.
Cage layout and guarding 14 The cage must be constructed so that (a) It does not cause a hazard to the occupants, and (b) The occupants cannot reach any hazard created by movement of the cage Or the hoisting mechanism.
Fall protection at landings 15 A landing that is 3 m (10 ft) or more above grade must have Gates, hinged guardrails, hinged covers or other effective guarding That protects persons who are at or near the landing from the hazard Of falling off of or through the landing platform when the cage is not At that landing.
Guarding at the lower landing 16 The lower landing for a chimney hoist must be guarded by perimeter Guards or guardrails and a gate.
Instructions for use and maintenance 17 The instructions from the professional engineer who designed the Chimney hoist and from the manufacturers of its component parts, Relating to safe use and maintenance of the chimney hoist, must be Available in the workplace.
Chimney hoist must be in good condition 18 The chimney hoist, including its cage, must be in good condition at The beginning of each shift and during use.
Operator training and authorization 19 (1) A chimney hoist operator must not operate a chimney hoist unless Authorized by the employer.
(2) A chimney hoist operator must not be authorized under subsection (1) Unless the operator has demonstrated (a) Competency in the operation of the chimney hoist, and (b) Familiarity with the operating instructions required under section 17 And the communication systems required under sections 22 and 23.
Daily testing 20 Before the first use on each work shift, the cage of the chimney hoist Must be raised to its maximum operating height and lowered back to the Ground or base to ensure that (a) All functions are operating correctly, (b) All limit devices are functioning properly, and (c) There is adequate clearance between the cage and any surrounding Object such as a structure, overhead obstruction, storage rack, or Scaffold, and any hazard such as energized electrical wires and Equipment.
Attending the controls 21 The operator of a chimney hoist must not leave the hoist controls Unattended or engage in any other tasks unless the cage is at the Lowest landing level, which is usually at ground or grade level, and No persons are in the cage.
Communication with the operator 22 (1) There must be effective voice communication, using single channel Two-way radios, among the chimney hoist operator, occupants of the Cage and people at each hoist landing.
(2) If there is more than one occupant in a cage, one person in the cage Must be designated to be the primary person to signal the chimney Hoist operator regarding cage movement requests.
Backup communication plan 23 (1) An effective signalling system must be developed and implemented as an Alternative in the event the primary voice communication system Becomes ineffective while the chimney hoist is in use.
(2) If the voice communication system becomes ineffective while the Chimney hoist is in use, the signalling system required under Subsection (1) must be used to bring the cage down to the lowest Landing and the hoist must not be used until the voice communication System is effectively restored.
Persons or materials 24 Materials, equipment or supplies must not be raised or lowered by the Chimney hoist with a person in the cage.
Getting in or out of the cage 25 The cage must be at a designated landing before a person gets into or Out of the cage.
Hoisting speed 26 A cage must not be raised or lowered at a speed greater than 76 m/min (250 fpm).
Position of gates 27 All the gates of a chimney hoist must be kept closed, except at a Landing designated for loading and unloading the cage.
Emergency evacuation 28 (1) Before a chimney hoist is used, a plan must be developed for the Evacuation of personnel from the cage in the event of loss of power or Equipment malfunction.
(2) While a chimney hoist is in use, personnel and equipment must be Immediately available to implement the plan required under subsection (1).
Contents
| Parts 1 to 3 | Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 7
| Part 8
| Part 9
| Parts 10 to 11 | Part 12
| Part 13
| Part 14 |
Part 15
| Part 16
| Parts 17 to 18 | Part 19
| Part 20
| Part 21
| Part 22
| Part 23
| Part 24
| Parts 25 to 26 | Part 27
| Part 28
| Parts 29 to 34 | Schedules