View complete statute Environmental management act [sbc 2003] chapter 53 Part 6.1 — greenhouse gas reduction Division 1
Not in force. repealed 76.1 [not in force. repealed 2014-29-57.] Division 2 — waste management facilities Management of greenhouse gases at waste management facilities 76.2 The owner or operator of a waste management facility of a prescribed Class must manage, in accordance with the regulations, specified Greenhouse gases produced from wastes handled at the waste management Facility.
Regulations for purposes of division 2 76.21 (1) Without limiting section 138 (1) [general authority to make regulations] , the lieutenant governor in council may make regulations as follows:
(a) Specifying greenhouse gases for the purposes of this division; (b) Prescribing actions that must be taken in relation to either or both Of the following:
(i) The management or reduction of specified greenhouse gases; (ii) The recovery of energy potential from specified greenhouse gases; (c) Regulating and imposing requirements and prohibitions in relation to Actions required under paragraph (b); (d) Regulating and imposing requirements and prohibitions for the design, Siting and operation of any works, activities or operations related to The management of, or the recovery of energy potential from, Greenhouse gases; (e) Exempting any works, activities or operations or any class of persons, Works, activities or operations from any or all of the provisions of The regulations in circumstances or on conditions that the lieutenant Governor in council prescribes; (f) Imposing monitoring and reporting requirements in relation to (i) Greenhouse gases or the recovery of energy potential from greenhouse Gases,
(ii) Handling, treating, transporting, discharging or storing greenhouse Gases or energy potential recovered from greenhouse gases, and (iii) Places and things that the lieutenant governor in council considers May be affected by the handling, treatment, transportation, discharge Or storage of greenhouse gases or energy potential recovered from Greenhouse gases, Including, without limitation, prescribing requirements for the Publication of information and respecting to whom reports are to be Submitted and the timing, form, content, supporting evidence, Verification, certification and manner of submission of the reports; (g) Establishing requirements respecting the retention of records that Support reports and information required to be provided to the Director under this division; (h) Defining words or expressions used but not defined in this division.
(2) Section 139
[regulations — general rules] Applies for the purpose of making regulations under this division.
Division 3 and 4 Not in force. repealed 76.3- 76.43 [not in force. repealed 2014-29-57.] Division 5 — general This part does not affect authority under other parts 76.5 Nothing in this part affects the authority to deal with greenhouse Gases under any other part of this act.
Contents
| Part 1
| Part 2
| Part 3
| Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 6.1 |
Part 7
| Part 8
| Part 9
| Part 9.1
| Part 10
| Part 11