View complete regulation B.c. reg. 296/97 Workers' compensation board Deposited september 8, 1997 Effective april 15, 1998 This consolidation is current to november 28, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after november 28, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Workers compensation act Occupational health and safety regulation [last amended march 1, 2023 by b.c. reg. 223/2022] Part 17 — transportation of workers General requirements Definitions
17.01 In this part:
"gross vehicle weight rating (gvwr)" Means the manufacturer's maximum recommended weight for a vehicle, Including the weight of the vehicle itself, fuel and other fluids, Passengers, and all cargo; "highway" Has the same meaning as in the Motor vehicle act ; "worker transportation vehicle" Means a motor vehicle provided by or arranged by an employer to Transport 3 or more workers to and from, or to or from, a workplace.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 1.] Application
17.1 This part applies to all persons, including the operator, engaged in Transporting workers by any type of conveyance operated on behalf of The employer.
General responsibilities 17.1.1 Vehicles used to transport workers must be designed, maintained and Operated in a safe manner.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 1.] Provision for seating and seat belt assemblies 17.1.2 If a worker transportation vehicle is used off a highway, the seating Requirements under division 39 of the motor vehicle act regulations And the seat belt assembly requirements of section 220 of the Motor vehicle act Apply as if the vehicle were operated on a highway.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 1.] Employer's responsibility 17.2 If workers are to travel in a worker transportation vehicle, the Employer must ensure that (a) Reasonable measures are taken to evaluate road, weather and traffic Conditions to ensure the safe transit of the workers, (b) An inspection of the worker transportation vehicle has been conducted By a qualified person before first use on a work shift, and (c) Any defect which might affect the safety of workers is corrected Before the vehicle is used.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 2.] Operator responsibility 17.2.1 (1) The operator of a worker transportation vehicle must ensure that the Worker transportation vehicle has been inspected by a qualified person Before first use on a work shift.
(2) In addition to the requirements of section 17.1.2, the operator must Not operate a vehicle in which there is a worker who occupies a Seating position for which a seat belt assembly is provided unless That worker is wearing the complete seat belt assembly in a properly Adjusted and securely fastened manner.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 2.] General operation requirements 17.2.2 (1) A vehicle used to transport workers must be operated by a driver Properly licensed under the provisions of the Motor vehicle act And, if required, the Industrial roads act .
(2) If a vehicle is used to transport workers the following procedures Must be in place:
(a) All doors must be closed and latched while the vehicle is in motion; (b) The parking brake must be engaged when the vehicle is left unattended And the wheels blocked or chocked if the circumstances require.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 2.] Provision for seat belts 17.2.3 An exemption under division 32, and an exception under division 39, of The motor vehicle act regulations apply to the operation of a worker Transportation vehicle both on and off a highway.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 2.] Repealed
17.3 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 2.] Riding restrictions 17.4 A worker must not ride in a vehicle (a) In a standing position, unless protected from being thrown off Balance, or (b) With any part of the body outside the vehicle unless essential to the Work process, and then only if the worker is adequately restrained.
Securing equipment 17.5 (1) Materials, goods, tools or equipment carried in a portion or Compartment of a vehicle in which workers are riding must be located And secured to prevent injury to the operator or workers.
(2) If materials, goods, tools or equipment are regularly carried in a Worker transportation vehicle there must be a designated area in the Vehicle for transporting these items.
Gross vehicle weight rating 17.5.1 The gross vehicle weight rating (gvwr) of the worker transportation Vehicle must not be exceeded.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 3.] Hazardous materials 17.6 The transportation of hazardous materials in a vehicle transporting Workers is restricted as follows:
(a) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. d, s. 16.] (b) If it is necessary to carry volatile, flammable, or otherwise Hazardous materials, the materials must be carried in isolated Compartments which are (i) Accessible only from outside the vehicle, are securely fastened and Are fitted with adequate ventilation and drainage facilities, and (ii) If internal to the vehicle, separated from the crew compartment by an Approved firewall.
[am. b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. d, s. 16.] Carrying animals 17.7 An animal must not be carried in the operator's cab or passenger Compartment of a vehicle transporting workers unless appropriate Facilities are provided for this purpose.
Passenger compartments 17.8 Any enclosed portion or compartment of a vehicle in which workers are Transported must have (a) Effective ventilation, independent of doors, providing clean air, (b) Adequate lighting and means for heating and cooling, (c) An effective means of communication between the operator and Passengers, and (d) More than one means of exit.
Boarding and leaving 17.9 (1) A worker must not board or leave any vehicle while it is in motion, Except in case of emergency.
(2) Adequate docking facilities must be provided if necessary to ensure Safe worker access and egress to marine craft and float-equipped Aircraft.
(3) A walkway on a docking facility must have a surface finish or Otherwise be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk of a Worker slipping.
Worker transportation vehicles not designed for use on highways Vehicle design 17.10 (1) A vehicle operated by or on behalf of the employer primarily to Transport workers must (a) Be suited to the type of use, terrain and weather, (b) Have a body of strong and rigid construction that is securely fastened To the vehicle chassis, (c) Have, with the exception of utvs, rear or side doors with latches Operable from inside and outside, with side doors on the right side of The vehicle, (d) Be fitted with at least one emergency exit that is on the left side or Rear of the vehicle, operable from both inside and outside, and Unlocked while the vehicle is in use, (e) Have safe means of entry and exit with non-slip steps and handholds, (f) Be fitted with adequate service brakes and a mechanical parking brake, (g) Be equipped with appropriate first aid equipment determined under Section 3.16 or 3.20, and (h) Be equipped with a fire extinguisher in good working order that has a Ul rating of at least 2a:10 b:c.
(2) A vehicle used to transport workers off road must have (a) Service brakes capable of stopping and holding the fully loaded Vehicle on the maximum slope the vehicle can climb or at the maximum Specified operating slope, (b) A primary and secondary braking system with the secondary braking System having at least 50% of the braking capability of the primary Braking system, (c) If components are shared between the primary and secondary braking Systems, a design such that failure of any one component will not Disable both brake systems, (d) If the service brake operates on the drive train, a design such that Failure of any one component of the drive train will not reduce the Braking capability to less than 50% of the primary brake system, and (e) A mechanical parking brake capable of holding the vehicle in place on A slope of at least 15%.
[am. b.c. regs. 348/2003, s. 5; 139/2021, app. d, s. 10.] Repealed
17.11 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 4.] Seating design 17.12 A worker transportation vehicle must be equipped with seats that (a) Are safely located and securely attached to the vehicle, with a width Of at least 41 cm (16 in) for each passenger and an upholstered seat And seat back which provide normal and comfortable seating for Passengers,
(b) Face to the front or rear of the vehicle, unless installed otherwise By the vehicle manufacturer, and (c) Provide a spacing of at least 66 cm (26 in) measured between the face Of the seat back at seat level and the back of the seat or other fixed Object in front.
Seating capacity 17.13 For vehicles that do not have seat belt assemblies in every seating Position, the seating capacity must be determined by the number of 41 Cm (16 in) seat widths available, provided the gross vehicle weight Rating (gvwr) is not exceeded.
[en. b.c. reg. 258/2008, app. e, s. 5.] Aisles
17.14 If a worker transportation vehicle will carry 12 or more passengers, It must have an aisle at least 25 cm (10 in) wide Providing access from each seat to a regular entry/exit door, and also To an alternate or emergency exit.
Marine craft Repealed
17.15 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. e, s. 9.] Repealed
17.16 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 8.] Safety standards 17.17 A vessel used to transport workers must meet generally accepted Standards for safety and capacity based on the use of the vessel and The conditions in which the vessel could be expected to operate.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 9.] Operation
17.18 If the operator of a vessel transporting workers is not required to Hold a certification under the Canada shipping act , the operator must (a) Have successfully completed a course on navigation and ship safety Acceptable to the board, or (b) Have other combination of training and experience acceptable to the Board.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 10.] Repealed
17.19- 17.21 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 11.] Communication
17.22 (1) A vessel used to transport workers must be equipped with a two-way Communication system of a design effective in the area of operation.
(2) The two-way communication system must be maintained in good operating Condition, be able to establish contact with persons necessary to Effect emergency response, and be immediately accessible in the event Of an emergency.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 12.] Vessel preparation 17.23 Before transporting workers on a vessel, the operator of the vessel Must ensure that the vessel is capable of safely making the passage, Considering the (a) Stowage and securing of all cargo, skiffs, equipment, fuel containers And supplies, (b) Ballasting, and (c) Existing and forecast weather conditions.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 13.] Maintenance and inspection 17.24 (1) A vessel must be inspected before initial use to ensure that it is fit For safe operation, and after that at intervals that will prevent the Development of unsafe conditions.
(2) Defects must be reported immediately, in writing, to the supervisor, Employer or owner and those defects which affect the safe operation of The vessel must be remedied before the vessel is put to further use.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 14.] Anti-skid covering 17.25 A vessel used by workers wearing caulked boots must be fitted with Deck matting or other covering which provides safe footing for Workers, and the covering must be maintained in good condition.
[am. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 15.] Lighting
17.26 Searchlights or floodlights must be provided and used if necessary to Facilitate safe operation of a vessel and to illuminate working or Boarding areas adjacent to the vessel.
[en. b.c. reg. 381/2004, s. 16.] Aircraft
Repealed
17.27 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 312/2003, app. h, s. 1.] Part 18 — traffic control General requirements Definitions
18.1 In this part:
"barrier" Means a solid or continuous installation designed to prevent errant Vehicles from entering a closed or hazardous work zone; "brief duration work" Means planned work in a work zone that requires 15 minutes or less to Complete;
"emergency" Means an incident that requires immediate action to protect lives or Prevent serious injury; "emergent work" Means quick response work necessitated by an unanticipated occurrence, Other than an emergency, if the total time required for workers to Complete the quick response work is less than 5 minutes; "long duration work" Means planned work in a work zone that requires (a) More than one daylight period to complete, (b) Night work, or (c) Mobile work; "mobile work" Means continuously slow-moving work or intermittently moving work with Stops of 30 minutes or less; "risk assessment" Means a risk assessment in accordance with section 18.3.1; "short duration work" Means planned work in a work zone that requires more than 15 minutes during a single daylight period to complete; "temporary traffic control device" Means a sign, signal, marking or other device used to regulate, warn Or guide traffic through or around a work zone for a limited period of Time;
"traffic assistant" Means a person who (a) Has completed the training described in section 18.6.3, and (b) Assists or directs motorists within parking or holding areas in a Specified workplace, such as a parking lot or roadway terminus used For vehicle holding prior to boarding a vessel; "traffic control" Means the use of temporary traffic control devices, traffic Arrangements or layouts and procedures to protect workers and move Traffic safely through a work zone; "traffic control person" Means a person who (a) Has completed the training described in section 18.6.2, and (b) Is designated or assigned by the employer to direct traffic; "traffic control plan" Means a workplace-specific plan that documents how traffic control is To be achieved, including (a) A combination of text, layouts and, if required, drawings that Describe specifically the traffic control measures and devices that Will be provided to mitigate the risks from hazards identified in the Risk assessment, (b) How the traffic control measures are to be implemented, and (c) On what schedule the traffic control measures are to be implemented; "traffic management manual" Means the latest edition of the Traffic management manual for work on roadways Issued by the ministry of transportation and infrastructure; "work zone" Means an area where a worker is or may be exposed to a moving vehicle, With the exception of (a) A parking lot, and (b) A roadway terminus used for vehicle holding prior to boarding a Vessel.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 1.] Employer responsibility 18.2 The employer must ensure that effective traffic control is provided And implemented whenever traffic could be hazardous to a worker.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 2.] Standards for traffic control 18.3 (1) The traffic management manual applies to all work zones.
(2) An employer must ensure that traffic control equipment, arrangements Or layouts and procedures, to the extent practicable, meet the Requirements of the traffic management manual unless otherwise Specified in this regulation or in the act.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 3.] Risk assessment 18.3.1 (1) An employer must not permit workers to engage in a work activity that May expose workers to traffic unless a risk assessment has first been Completed by a qualified person and the risk assessment (a) Meets the requirements of subsection (2) or (3), as applicable, and (b) Takes into account the risks to worker health and safety whenever Traffic control is required for (i) Emergent work, (ii) Brief duration work, (iii) Short duration work, or (iv) Long duration work.
(2) An employer responsible for emergent work or brief duration work must (a) Determine that the emergent work or brief duration work can be Performed safely in less than 5 minutes or 15 minutes or Less, respectively, (b) Develop written work procedures applicable to the emergent work or Brief duration work, including specifying (i) The temporary traffic control devices and layouts required, if Applicable, and (ii) Instructions and procedures to follow when a worker encounters an Unanticipated occurrence that prevents the work from being completed In the time allocated, and (c) Require workers to follow the written work procedures described in Paragraph (b).
(3) An employer responsible for short duration work or long duration work Must ensure that the risk assessment is in writing and includes Consideration of at least the following:
(a) Work duration and time of day the work activity is scheduled to occur; (b) Whether the nature of the work activity is expected to create a Hazard;
(c) Whether any of the following is expected to create a risk of worker Injury:
(i) Traffic volume; (ii) Lines of sight; (iii) Vehicles travelling at the posted speed limits; (iv) Configuration of the work zone, including the number of lanes and lane Widths;
(v) Equipment movement and storage; (d) Environmental conditions or hazards that could present a risk to Workers during the installation or removal of temporary traffic Control devices, including (i) Avalanche or rock fall areas, (ii) Overhead structures, and (iii) Roadway surface conditions; (e) Coordination of overlapping work activities; (f) Any other reasonably foreseeable hazard; (g) Whether traffic control persons are required, and, if so, (i) The availability of escape routes for those traffic control persons, (ii) Environmental conditions or hazards, (iii) The locations at which traffic control persons can be positioned to Direct traffic and avoid the risk of being struck by traffic, (iv) Requirements for breaks by those traffic control persons, including Hygiene breaks, (v) Shift duration and the number of traffic control persons required for The work, and (vi) What site-specific orientation and training are required for traffic Control persons at the work zone; (h) The level of supervision required.
(4) An employer referred to in subsection (2) or (3), as applicable, must Ensure that the risk assessment is reviewed and updated by a qualified Person if (a) There is reason to believe the risk assessment is no longer valid, or (b) There has been a significant change in the scope or nature of the work To which the risk assessment relates.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 4.] Traffic control plan 18.3.2 (1) An employer responsible for short duration work or long duration work Must ensure that a written traffic control plan is developed based on The risk assessment.
(2) The traffic control plan required under subsection (1) must specify (a) Traffic control measures to mitigate the hazards identified in the Risk assessment, (b) Instructions for implementation of the traffic control measures, (c) Clear statements of roles and responsibilities for implementing the Traffic control plan, and (d) A schedule, for the traffic control plan, for (i) Implementation, and (ii) Regular review and updating.
(3) If the risk assessment is updated under section 18.3.1 (4), the Employer must ensure that (a) The traffic control plan is amended to address the changes to the risk Assessment, and (b) The amendments to the traffic control plan are implemented.
(4) The employer must ensure that the traffic control plan is accessible At all times to workers at the work zone.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 4.] Order of control measures 18.3.3 (1) An owner and an employer each must, to the extent practicable, Eliminate the risk of worker exposure to traffic in a work zone by Isolating the work zone using constructed detours, alternative routes, Barriers or other effective measures.
(2) If it is not practicable to eliminate worker exposure to traffic in a Work zone by using the measures described in subsection (1), worker Exposure to traffic must be minimized by applying control measures That
(a) Are appropriate to the work activity, (b) Are consistent with the risk assessment, and (c) Include, in order of priority, (i) The use of temporary traffic control devices and traffic arrangements Or layouts and procedures to effectively protect workers from traffic Travelling by or through a work zone without the use of traffic Control persons, (ii) Administrative controls that reduce the number of workers exposed to Traffic, such as scheduling work during off-peak hours, and (iii) The use of traffic control persons only after the control measures set Out in subparagraphs (i) and (ii), either alone or in combination, Have been considered and determined to be insufficient to manage Traffic in the circumstances.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 4.] Supervision
18.4 (1) An employer must ensure that a qualified supervisor is designated Whenever traffic control is required.
(2) The employer must ensure that the supervisor designated under Subsection (1) ensures that the following requirements are met:
(a) Traffic arrangements or layouts and procedures are implemented in Accordance with the traffic control plan set out in Section 18.3.2;
(b) The required temporary traffic control devices are in place before the Start of work and are removed or covered immediately when they are no Longer required; (c) The work zone is inspected at intervals appropriate to the risks; (d) It has been verified that any person assigned to direct traffic can Provide evidence of having completed the traffic control training Program in accordance with section 18.6.2; (e) If traffic control persons are assigned, the traffic control persons Are, before their first shift, provided orientation and training at The work zone that are (i) Documented or otherwise recorded, and (ii) Consistent with the risks identified in the risk assessment; (f) If 2 or more traffic control persons are expected to work as a team, Responsibility is assigned to one traffic control person to coordinate Any changes in traffic flow.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Placement of temporary traffic control devices 18.5 An employer must ensure that (a) Temporary traffic control devices are positioned and used as specified In the traffic control plan, (b) Temporary traffic control devices are positioned to allow traffic to Move by or through the work zone in a safe manner, (c) Temporary traffic control devices are in place before the start of the Work and are removed or covered immediately when they are no longer Required,
(d) Temporary traffic control devices are installed and removed in a Sequence that best protects workers during each phase of a traffic Control operation, and (e) The distance between the traffic control person ahead c-001-1 sign and The first traffic control person does not exceed 150 metres, Unless this is not practicable.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Traffic control persons Prohibitions
18.6 An employer must ensure that (a) Traffic control persons are not used to control traffic when speed Limits in effect are greater than 70 km/h, (b) Traffic control persons do not direct traffic contrary to any sign, Signal or traffic control device, and (c) Traffic control persons are not positioned in an intersection open to Traffic flow or the travelled portion of a roadway.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Emergency management 18.6.1 (1) In this section, "emergency responder" Includes, when present at an emergency scene in a work zone, a Firefighter, paramedic, highway rescue worker, search and rescue Worker, tow truck worker, utility owner's worker, road authority Worker and road maintenance worker.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), emergency responders may be Assigned to direct traffic during an emergency.
(3) An emergency responder, other than a peace officer, may not direct Traffic under subsection (2) unless the emergency responder has Completed training that includes (a) Basic traffic control principles, (b) Instructions on the use, set-up and take down of temporary traffic Control devices, (c) Traffic management principles described in the traffic management Manual,
(d) Use of a buffer vehicle to protect the work zone during an emergency, (e) Safe work procedures, and (f) Appropriate selection, use and maintenance of personal protective Clothing and safety equipment.
(4) An emergency responder, other than a peace officer, may not direct Traffic under subsection (2) for more than 2 hours after the Start of the emergency unless the emergency responder has completed The training described in section 18.6.2.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Traffic control person training 18.6.2 (1) An employer must ensure that a traffic control person has completed a Board-approved traffic control training program.
(2) On and after december 1, 2023, the traffic control training program Must be based on (a) Analysis of the knowledge, skills, abilities and other requirements to Perform the job, and (b) Training and competency assessment criteria contained in any one of The following:
(i) Iso/iec 17024:2012, conformity assessment — general requirements for Bodies operating certification of persons ; (ii) Ansi/ice 1100: 2019(e), standard for assessment-based certificate Programs
; (iii) Astm international astm e2659-18, standard practice for certificate Programs
; (iv) Can/csa z1001-18, occupational health and safety training ; (v) Another standard acceptable to the board.
(3) Successful completion of the traffic control training program must Include an assessment of the trainee's (a) Knowledge of the subject matter, and (b) Practical competency.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Traffic assistant training 18.6.3 (1) An employer must ensure that a traffic assistant receives workplace Training that addresses the hazards specific to the workplace and that Includes coursework and a practical component.
(2) The coursework for a traffic assistant referred to in subsection (1) Must include (a) Basic traffic control principles, (b) Instructions on the use, set-up and take down of temporary traffic Control devices, (c) Safe work procedures that include identifying an escape route, and (d) Appropriate selection, use and maintenance of personal protective Clothing and safety equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 5.] Traffic control person to remain on duty 18.7 The employer must ensure that a traffic control person is on duty at The assigned station whenever a traffic control person is required as Part of the traffic control plan for the work.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2.] Location of traffic control persons 18.8 (1) Subject to section 18.6 and subsection (3) of this section, an Employer must ensure that a traffic control person is in a position That has been identified in the risk assessment as a safe location.
(2) A safe location referred to in subsection (1) is one that (a) Is
(i) On the shoulder or curb adjacent to the traffic being controlled, or (ii) In a lane that has been closed by means of barriers or other temporary Traffic control devices, (b) Provides the traffic control person with an unobstructed route to Escape errant vehicles or traffic, (c) Is 25 metres or more from the work zone, unless circumstances or space Requirements, such as working at or near an intersection open to Traffic flow or in an urban setting, make this distance not Practicable, and (d) Makes the traffic control person stand out against the background or Appear as conspicuous as possible to approaching traffic.
(3) If a risk assessment identifies that it is not practicable to position The traffic control person in a location as described in Subsection (2), the employer must ensure that the positioning of The traffic control person is based on a written risk assessment of Site-specific conditions completed to determine an alternative Position to provide safety for the traffic control person.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 6.] Equipment for traffic control persons Operations during daytime 18.9 Each traffic control person must be provided and must use, when Directing traffic, the following:
(a) A traffic control paddle meeting the requirements set out in the Traffic management manual and, if determined by a risk assessment as Required to control fatigue, an extension pole for the paddle; (b) A traffic control person ahead c-001-1 sign, which must be immediately Removed or covered when traffic control persons are not actively Controlling traffic; (c) High visibility apparel meeting the requirements for the class 3 Garment criteria of Csa standard z96-15, high-visibility safety apparel And that (i) Is in fluorescent yellow-green or fluorescent orange-red background Colour,
(ii) Covers fully, at a minimum, the upper torso, (iii) Has, in a contrasting colour, combination retroreflective-fluorescent Stripes/bands that are at least 100 millimetres wide, made up of an at Least 50 millimetre-wide retroreflective band with 2 at least 25 millimetre-wide fluorescent stripes in a contrasting colour to The background colour, in fluorescent yellow-green or fluorescent Orange-red, on each side of the retroreflective band, (iv) Is worn as a torso vest, jacket or coveralls, with the combination Retroreflective-fluorescent stripes/bands described in Subparagraph (iii) laid out in the following pattern:
(a) A symmetric x, on the back of the garment, from shoulders to waist; (b) 2 vertical stripes/bands on the front and extending over the shoulders To the waist; (c) Waist-level, horizontal stripes/bands extending entirely around the Circumference of the torso, from the back to the bottom of the Vertical stripes/bands on the front where they end at the front Garment-fastening mechanism; (d) With no gaps, in the retroflective-fluorescent material, that exceed 50 millimetres, and (v) Has horizontal combination retroreflective-fluorescent stripes/bands Encircling both arms and legs, that are of the measurements set out in Subparagraph (iii) and that are placed below the elbows and below The knees, respectively; (d) Safety headgear of a high visibility colour with a strip of Retroreflective tape across the top from front to back and a strip of Retroreflective tape on each side; (e) Any other equipment required by the risk assessment.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 6.] Operations during darkness or poor visibility 18.10 (0.1) In this section, "darkness" Means the period from a half hour after sunset to a half hour before Sunrise.
(1) During the hours of darkness, or in other conditions of poor Visibility, each traffic control person must be provided with and must Use, in addition to the equipment required by section 18.9, a Flashlight fitted with a red signalling wand.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the traffic control person must Have immediate access to spare batteries for the flashlight.
(3) During the hours of darkness, or in other conditions of poor Visibility, a location from which a traffic control person directs Traffic must be illuminated by (a) Overhead street lighting, or (b) If overhead street lighting is not available, temporary lighting that Does not subject approaching road users to excessive glare.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 7.] Equipment maintenance 18.11 All temporary traffic control equipment and devices, including signs, Traffic control paddles and personal protective equipment, must be Kept clean and in good working condition.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 8.] Directions and signals by traffic control persons Precise motions 18.12 A traffic control person must make all traffic control directions and Signals precisely and deliberately so that the meaning can be clearly Understood.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2.] Communication between traffic control persons 18.13 If more than one traffic control person is controlling traffic at the Same work zone, the employer must ensure that an effective means of Communication is provided to and used by those persons for Communication between them.
[en. b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 9.] Repealed
18.14 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 10.] Other requirements Dust control 18.15 If traffic causes airborne dust to the extent visibility is reduced And interferes with effective traffic control or creates a hazard to Workers, the employer must control the dust by the periodic Application of water or other acceptable material to the grade surface To suppress dust.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2006, s. 2.] Repealed
18.16- 18.17 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 10.] Figure 18-1
Repealed. [b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 9.] Figure 18-2
Repealed. [b.c. reg. 222/2021, app. d, s. 10.] Contents
| Parts 1 to 3 | Part 4
| Part 5
| Part 6
| Part 7
| Part 8
| Part 9
| Parts 10 to 11 | Part 12
| Part 13
| Part 14
| Part 15
| Part 16
| Parts 17 to 18 | Part 19
| Part 20
| Part 21
| Part 22
| Part 23
| Part 24
| Parts 25 to 26 | Part 27
| Part 28
| Parts 29 to 34 | Schedules