B.C. Reg. 233/2018
O.C. 594/2018
Deposited November 9, 2018
effective April 1, 2019
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Civil Resolution Tribunal Act
Accident Claims Regulation
[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 147/2022]
Definitions and interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Civil Resolution Tribunal Act
;
"independent medical examination"
, in respect of an accident claim, means an examination conducted by
an expert appointed by the tribunal under section 3.
(2)
In sections 5 and 6, a reference to "expenses and charges" is to be
read as including
(a)
any amounts charged by a lawyer or other representative of a party,
and
(b)
any amounts payable in relation to expert evidence.
Part 1 — Benefits Claims, Minor Injury Claims and Liability and Damages
Claims
Application of Part
2
This Part applies in relation to accident claims referred to in
section 133 (1) (a) to (c) of the Act.
[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2022, Sch. 1, s. 2.]
Independent medical examination
3
On the request of a party or on the tribunal's own initiative, if the
physical or mental condition of a person is in issue, the tribunal may
appoint an expert
(a)
to conduct an independent medical examination with respect to a
person's injuries related to an accident claim, and
(b)
to provide an opinion in the form of a report that includes the
following information, to the extent that the information is
applicable or within the expert's area of practice:
(i)
the nature and extent of the person's injuries;
(ii)
the person's diagnosis;
(iii)
the person's condition at the time of the independent medical
examination;
(iv)
the person's prognosis;
(v)
any information required by the tribunal.
[am. B.C. Reg. 60/2019, App. 4.]
Other expert evidence
4
(1)
A party may introduce expert evidence from one expert other than a
report under section 3 (b).
(2)
The tribunal may allow a party to introduce evidence from up to 2
additional experts if the tribunal considers that the introduction of
additional evidence is reasonably necessary and proportionate to the
accident claim.
Prescribed allowable expenses
5
(1)
For the purposes of section 49 (3)
[order for payment of expenses]
of the Act, the following prescribed limits apply to the fees,
expenses and charges that one party may be required to pay to another
party:
(a)
in the case of expenses and charges associated with an independent
medical examination, $2 000 is the limit prescribed in relation to the
independent medical examination, excluding reasonable travelling and
out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred for the independent
medical examination;
(b)
in any case other than the case referred to in paragraph (a),
(i)
$2 000 is the limit prescribed for expenses and charges payable in
relation to each expert, including any expenses and charges payable in
relation to reports or other evidence prepared by each expert
providing expert evidence, and
(ii)
$5 000 is the total limit prescribed for all recoverable fees,
expenses and charges, including any expenses and charges payable under
subparagraph (i).
(2)
For certainty, the total limit described in subsection (1) (b) (ii)
does not include any fees, expenses and charges associated with an
independent medical examination.
Orders for payment for independent medical examinations
6
For the purposes of section 49 (3)
[order for payment of expenses]
of the Act, an order of the tribunal in relation to an order for
payment associated with an expert's independent medical examination is
subject to the following prescribed restrictions:
(a)
unless the tribunal orders otherwise, any expenses and charges
associated with an expert's independent medical examination are
payable
(i)
by the requesting party, or
(ii)
equally by the parties, if the expert is appointed on the tribunal's
own initiative;
(b)
the amounts payable by a party under paragraph (a) are recoverable by
the successful party.
Prescribed tribunal limit amount
7
For the purposes of the definition of "tribunal limit amount" in
section 132
[definitions for Division — accident claims]
of the Act, $50 000 is the maximum amount that the tribunal may award
in an accident claim in accordance with section 133 (1) (c)
[claims within jurisdiction of tribunal for accident claims]
of the Act.
Part 2 — Accident Responsibility Claims
Application of Part
8
This Part applies in relation to accident claims referred to in
section 133 (1) (d) of the Act.
[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2022, Sch. 1, s. 3.]
Time limit — determination of extent of responsibility for accident
9
(1)
For the purposes of section 13.5 of the Act, a party may not make a
request under section 4 of the Act asking the tribunal to resolve a
claim concerning a determination by the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia of the extent to which the party is responsible for
an accident more than 90 days after the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia makes a detailed assessment of responsibility in
relation to the accident.
(2)
For the purposes of subsection (1), the date that the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia makes a detailed assessment of
responsibility is the date of the detailed responsibility assessment
(CL 722) issued by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia in
relation to the accident under section 148.8 (3) of the Insurance
(Vehicle) Regulation.
[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2022, Sch. 1, s. 3.]
Matters required to be proven and onus of proof
10
In a claim concerning a determination by the Insurance Company of
British Columbia of the extent to which the initiating party is
responsible for an accident, the initiating party has the onus of
proving both of the following matters:
(a)
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia acted improperly or
unreasonably in assigning responsibility for the accident to the
initiating party;
(b)
the extent to which the initiating party is responsible for the
accident is less than the extent of responsibility assigned by the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia.
[en. B.C. Reg. 147/2022, Sch. 1, s. 3.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Civil Resolution Tribunal Act
, S.B.C. 2012, c. 25, s. 93.]
