B.c. reg. 108/2020 O.c. 253/2020 Deposited may 19, 2020 Effective january 1, 2020 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) School act Additional school tax regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the School act ; "long-term lease" Means a lease registered in the land title office that has a term of 60 years or more, as determined in accordance with section 4 [how term of lease must be determined] .
Application
2 This regulation applies in respect of the 2020 taxation year and Subsequent taxation years.
Dwelling property does not include property Owned by certain lessees of crown or other lands 3 For the purposes of section 117.1 [definitions for this division] Of the act, "dwelling property" does not include property owned by a Person if both of the following apply in respect of a taxation year:
(a) The person holds or occupies the property, under a long-term lease, in The manner referred to in one of the following provisions of the Assessment act :
(i) Section 26
[assessment of land the fee of which is in the crown] ; (ii) Section 27
[assessment of exempt land held by occupier] ; (iii) Section 28
[assessment of land the fee of which is in the municipality] ; (b) As at october 31 of the preceding taxation year, there were less Than 30 years remaining in the term of the long-term lease.
How term of lease must be determined 4 (1) For the purposes of this regulation, the term of a long-term lease of A property must be determined by adding (a) The number of years for which a lessee has the right to occupy the Property under the long-term lease, and (b) The maximum number of years, not already counted under Paragraph (a), for which a lessee would have the right to occupy The property were the lessee to exercise all rights or options to Renew or extend the long-term lease.
(2) If the number determined under subsection (1) includes a portion Of a year, the number must be rounded up to the next whole number.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
School act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 412, s. 117.1.]