B.c. reg. 10/2021 O.c. 33/2021 Deposited january 26, 2021 Effective february 5, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Professional governance act Agrologists regulation [last amended october 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 191/2022] Definitions
1 (1) In this regulation:
"act" Means the Professional governance act ; "limited licence agrologist" Means an individual who is registered with the regulatory body as a Limited license agrologist in accordance with the bylaws of the Regulatory body; "practice of agrology" , subject to subsection (2), means the provision of any of the Following advice or services:
(a) Advice or services that (i) Are based on agricultural or natural sciences or agricultural or Resource economics, and (ii) Relate to (a) Cultivation, production, improvement, processing, marketing or Management of aquatic or terrestrial plants or animals, (b) Classification, management, use, conservation, protection or Enhancement of aquatic, terrestrial or atmospheric ecosystems that are Affected by, sustain or have the potential to sustain the cultivation Or production of aquatic or terrestrial plants or animals, or (c) Restoration, reclamation or remediation of aquatic, terrestrial or Atmospheric ecosystems; (b) Advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a); "protective purposes" Means the safety, health and welfare of the public, including the Protection of the environment and the promotion of health and safety In the workplace.
(2) The practice of agrology does not include (a) The provision of advice or services within the reserved practice of a Registrant of another regulatory body, or (b) A normal farm practice, as defined in the Farm practices protection (right to farm) act , by a person on the person's land.
[am. b.c. regs. 239/2021, app. 2, s. 1; 191/2022, app. 2, s. 1.] Regulated practice 2 For the purposes of the definition of "regulated practice" in section 2 [definitions in respect of the british columbia institute of Agrologists]
Of schedule 1 of the act, the practice of agrology is prescribed.
Reserved title 3 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) [reserved titles] Of the act, the following titles are reserved for exclusive use by Registrants:
(a) "professional agrologist"; (b) "articling agrologist"; (c) "technical agrologist"; (d) "articling technical agrologist"; (e) "limited licence agrologist".
[am. b.c. reg. 191/2022, app. 2, s. 2.] Reserved practice 4 (1) For the purposes of section 51 (1) (b) [reserved practice] Of the act, the practice of agrology described in paragraph (a) (ii) Of the definition of "practice of agrology" in section 1 (1) of this Regulation is a reserved practice that may only be carried out by or Under the supervision of a registrant, if the practice relates to Providing advice or another service that, having regard to the Protective purposes, requires the experience or technical knowledge of An agrologist or limited licence agrologist.
(2) In the case of advice or services described in paragraph (a) (ii) (c) Of the definition of "practice of agrology", the reserved practice is Limited to the advice or services relating to the state or quality of Soil, water or air, for an agrology purpose.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2021, app. 2, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 191/2022, app. 2, S. 3.]
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional governance act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 47, ss. 118 and 119.]