B.c. reg. 2/2015 O.c. 19/2015 Deposited january 19, 2015 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Animal health act Animal products and byproducts regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Animal health act ; "bee" Has the same meaning as in the bee regulation, b.c. reg. 3/2015; "cappings" Has the same meaning as in the bee regulation, b.c. reg. 3/2015; "comb" Has the same meaning as in the bee regulation, b.c. reg. 3/2015; "farmed bird" Means a chicken, cornish hen, duck, emu, goose, ostrich, partridge, Pheasant, pigeon, quail, squab or turkey hatched or raised on a farm; "fur bearing animal" Has the same meaning as in the fur farm regulation, b.c. reg. 8/2015; "game" Has the same meaning as in the game farm regulation, b.c. reg. 5/2015; "hide" Has the same meaning as in the livestock licensing regulation, b.c.
Reg. 6/2015;
"livestock" Has the same meaning as in the livestock licensing regulation, b.c.
Reg. 6/2015.
From bees 2 (1) The following are prescribed as animal products from bees for the Purposes of the act and the regulations made under it:
(a) Honey;
(b) Pollen.
(2) The following are prescribed as animal byproducts from bees for the Purposes of the act and the regulations made under it:
(a) Beeswax;
(b) Cappings;
(c) Combs;
(d) Propolis;
(e) A queen cell, being a wax comb cell that contains a developing queen Bee that is near to emerging.
From farmed birds 3 (1) Eggs from farmed birds are prescribed as animal products for the Purposes of the act and the regulations made under it.
(2) Feathers from farmed birds are prescribed as animal byproducts for the Purposes of the act and the regulations made under it.
From fish and shellfish 4 (1) The following are prescribed as animal products from finfish for the Purposes of the act and the regulations made under it:
(a) Eggs;
(b) Oil.
(2) The following are prescribed as animal byproducts for the purposes of The act and the regulations made under it:
(a) Fish meal made from finfish; (b) Fertilizers and hydrolysates made from finfish; (c) Shells from crustaceans or molluscs.
From mammals 5 (1) Milk from livestock or water buffalo, including butter, cream, cheese And other dairy products made from that milk, is prescribed as an Animal product for the purposes of the act and the regulations made Under it.
(2) The following are prescribed as animal byproducts for the purposes of The act and the regulations made under it:
(a) Blood, bones, bristle, hair, hides, hooves, horns and offal from Livestock or water buffalo; (b) Antlers from game; (c) Wool from sheep; (d) Pelts from fur bearing animals.
From any animal 6 (1) Meat from farmed birds, finfish, crustaceans, molluscs, livestock or Water buffalo is prescribed as an animal product for the purposes of The act and the regulations made under it.
(2) Non-fertilized ova and semen from farmed birds, finfish, crustaceans, Molluscs, livestock, water buffalo or fur bearing animals are Prescribed as animal byproducts for the purposes of the act and the Regulations made under it.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Animal health act , s.b.c. 2014, c. 16, section 93 (1) (c)]