B.c. reg. 300/90 O.c. 1289/90 Deposited august 31, 1990 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Environmental management act Antisapstain chemical waste Control regulation [last amended july 8, 2004 by b.c. reg. 321/2004] Interpretation
1 (1) In this regulation:
"antisapstain chemical" Means chlorophenol, 2-(thiocyanomethylthio) benzothiazole (tcmtb), Copper-8-quinolinolate (cu-8), 3-iodo-2-propynyl butyl carbamate (ipbc) and didecyldimethyl ammonium chloride (ddac); "chlorophenol" Means the sum of chlorophenols plus chlorophenates as reported by a Laboratory testing method approved by a director; "curb" Means a raised edge or curbing which would confine all liquids Dropping within the enclosure formed by it and the surface on which it Sits;
"effluent" Includes precipitation runoff; "fixed roof" Means a roof which is designed and constructed to prevent the entry of Precipitation and to be a maintenance free structure for a period of Not less than 10 years, but does not include a structure which Utilizes tarpaulins or similar materials; "impervious" Means not allowing entrance or passage of antisapstain chemicals; "isolated" Means set apart from other operations in an enclosure away from any High traffic areas that can, under normal circumstances, prevent the Entry of unauthorized persons.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation effluent is toxic if the effluent At 100% concentration kills 50% or more of rainbow trout Within 96 hours when tested in accordance with procedures approved by A director.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (a).] Prohibition
2 A person shall not introduce into the environment (a) An effluent that contains antisapstain chemicals from (i) Sawmills, lumber export terminals and other facilities that, for the Purpose of preventing sapstain growth, apply antisapstain chemicals or Have during the 12 months immediately preceding the introduction of The effluent applied antisapstain chemicals, or (ii) Storage areas for lumber treated with antisapstain chemicals, not Including storage yards at facilities which only store lumber for the Purpose of retail sale directly to the public, (b) Emissions to the air from antisapstain chemical spray booth vents, or (c) Emissions to the air consisting of combustion products of antisapstain Chemicals and their byproducts Unless the person (d) Meets the requirements under sections 4 to 12 where the person used or Uses chlorophenol, tcmtb, ddac, ipbc or cu-8, and (e) Complies with a monitoring program, if any, established by a director That allows the director to determine (i) The concentration of antisapstain chemical in effluents, (ii) The toxicity of the effluents, or (iii) The rate of antisapstain chemical emissions to the air from Antisapstain chemical spray booths.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (b).] Exemption
3 A person to whom section 2 applies is exempt from section 6 of the Environmental management act In respect of the introduction into the environment of an effluent or Emission referred to in section 2 (a) to (c) if the Person meets the requirements of section 2 (d) and (e).
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (c).] Storm sewer design 4 (1) A storm sewer serving a storage area referred to in Section 2 (a) (ii) or any antisapstain treatment area of any Facility referred to in section 2 (a) shall receive only Precipitation and runoff from the storage area, treatment area or Both, including roof drainage from structures which shelter the Storage areas and treatment areas, and shall convey it to a sampling Point downstream of the storage area and treatment area.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the storm sewer may receive and convey Additional liquids downstream of the sampling point.
Quality of effluent including stormwater 5 (1) and (2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (d).] (3) The concentration of an individual antisapstain chemical in effluent Shall not exceed 6 µg/l chlorophenol, 6 µg/l tcmtb, 15 µg/l cu-8, 120 µg/l ipbc or 700 µg/l ddac.
(4) The effluents from operations described in section 2 (a) shall not be Toxic.
(5) Sampling to determine a concentration of any individual antisapstain Chemical in effluent under subsection (3) shall occur at the Sampling point referred to in section 4.
(6) Sampling referred to in subsection (4) and the analysis of the samples Shall be conducted using sampling and analytical methods approved by a Director.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (a) and (d) to (g).] Design of antisapstain chemical storage and mix facilities 6 (1) An antisapstain concentrated chemical storage system, concentrate feed System, mix system and working solution storage tanks (a) Shall be located in an isolated area within a building, and (b) Shall have doors that provide access to the area and that shall be Kept locked except when a person is present for work related purposes.
(2) A spill containment system shall be maintained for the isolated area Under subsection (1) and the spill system shall be impervious and Of sufficient size to contain at least 120% of the volume of the Largest tank in the isolated area.
Design of antisapstain chemical dip tank systems 7 (1) An antisapstain chemical dip tank shall (a) Be impervious, (b) If it is an above ground tank, be located in an impervious containment Area which has (i) A sloped floor, and (ii) A curb that is of sufficient height to enable the containment area to Hold at least 120% of the largest chemical dip tank volume, and that Prevents entry of surface runoff, (c) If it is not an above ground tank, be a double wall containment tank Constructed with (i) Both walls impervious, and (ii) A means for determining if there is leakage of the chemicals into the Area between the walls, (d) Have an associated impervious primary drip area that provides 30 minutes minimum dripping time for treated wood immediately Following the treatment and that prevents entry to the dip tank of Surface runoff and precipitation, (e) Have a system for recycling all drippings from the containment area Referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) and from the Impervious drip area referred to in paragraph (d) back to the dip Tank, and (f) Be constructed so as to prevent a motorized vehicle of a type that can Reasonably be expected to operate near the dip tank from driving in or Through the dip tank.
(2) The containment area referred to in subsection (1) (b), the tank Referred to in subsection (1) (c) and the primary drip area Referred to in subsection (1) (d) shall be provided with a Fixed roof and with guard rails or equivalent to provide vehicle Impact protection.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (h).] [am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (h).] Design of antisapstain chemical spray booth systems 8 (1) An antisapstain chemical spray booth system shall have (a) A collection tray that is impervious and that facilitates recycling For re-use of all oversprayed antisapstain chemicals, (b) Under both the spray box and collection tray, a containment area that (i) Consists of a floor and curb, (ii) Is impervious, and (iii) Has the capacity to contain all drippings for subsequent recycling or For disposal in accordance with the provisions of the hazardous waste Regulation (b.c. reg. 63/88), and (c) A primary drip area that (i) Provides 30 minutes minimum drying time for treated wood immediately Following treatment, (ii) Has a fixed roof, and (iii) Has a system for recycling all drippings for re-use.
(2) Emissions to the air from antisapstain chemical application spray Booths
(a) Shall be treated by a demister or an alternative approved by a Director and then (i) Shall be vented directly to the atmosphere by a stack, the top of Which shall be at least 10 metres above the ground and 5 metres above the highest point of the roof of the building Which houses the antisapstain chemical spray booth, or (ii) All or part of the treated emission shall be recirculated back to the Spray booth, and (b) Shall not be combined with any pneumatic stream that conveys chips, Sawdust, planer shavings, hog fuel or any other wood residue.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (i) and (j).] Demister purge 9 Where a director has issued a directive to minimize the quantity of Antisapstain chemicals introduced to the environment by effluent Purged from a demister referred to in Section 8 (2) (a), the effluent shall be handled, Treated and disposed of in accordance with the directive.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (k).] Antisapstain chemical spray booth atmospheric emission quality 10 The rate of emissions to the air from an antisapstain chemical spray Booth stack referred to in section 8 (2) (a) shall not Exceed
(a) 7.0 mg per second chlorophenol, (b) 7.0 mg per second tcmtb, (c) 7.0 mg per second cu-8, (d) 7.0 mg per second ddac, or (e) 7.0 mg per second ipbc As determined by sampling and analytical methods approved by a Director.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (a).] Management of sludges and wood residue 11 (1) Sludges that qualify as hazardous waste and that have originated from Antisapstain chemical dip tanks and spray system filtering or Screening processes shall not be incinerated, buried or otherwise Disposed of or introduced into the environment unless all provisions Of the hazardous waste regulation are satisfied.
(2) Trim ends, broken lumber, chips, sawdust, planer shavings and other Wood residue resulting from processing and handling of wood following Its treatment with antisapstain chemicals (a) Shall not be provided to a person for use as mulch or for burning in a Residential fireplace, stove or other burning device other than an Incinerator permitted under paragraph (b), (b) Shall be incinerated only in a hog fuel burning incinerator, or other Incineration device, that is designed (i) To burn the wood residue at a minimum combustion temperature of 900°c, And
(ii) For gases in the combustion zone to have a minimum residence time of One second, and (c) If the antisapstain chemical is a chlorophenol, shall not be provided To a person for the purpose of supplying digesters in pulp Manufacturing processes.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 3 (l) and (m).] Design of treated wood storage areas 12 Lumber treated with antisapstain chemicals and not otherwise protected From contact with precipitation shall be stored in an area that has a Floor and a curb that are impervious to the treatment chemicals or That are constructed of asphalt that is maintained in good condition.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Environmental management act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 53, s. 138 (2).]