B.c. reg. 13/2021 O.c. 36/2021 Deposited january 26, 2021 Effective february 5, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Professional governance act Applied biologists regulation [last amended october 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 191/2022] Definitions
1 (1) In this regulation:
"act" Means the Professional governance act ; "applied biology limited licensee" Means an individual who is registered with the regulatory body as an Applied biology limited licensee in accordance with the bylaws of the Regulatory body; "biological science" Includes botany, zoology, ecology, biochemistry and microbiology; "biology objective" Means the restoration, retention or enhancement of, or the mitigation Of impacts on, the receiving environment, and the living organisms, Habitats or processes within ecosystems in relation to (a) Conservation,
(b) Protection, or (c) Wild terrestrial or aquatic species management; "impact" Includes
(a) The harming or removal of living organisms, including by gathering, Collecting, hunting or angling, (b) The effect of a contaminant or other circumstances affecting the Environment, including light or noise, or (c) The damage or loss of a habitat; "practice of applied biology" , subject to subsection (2), means the provision of (a) Advice or services that (i) Are based on biological sciences, and (ii) Relate to aquatic or terrestrial ecosystems or the living organisms, Habitats or processes of those ecosystems, or (b) Advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a); "protective purposes" Means the safety, health and welfare of the public, including the Protection of the environment and the promotion of health and safety In the workplace.
(2) The practice of applied biology does not include the provision of Advice or services within the reserved practice of a registrant of Another regulatory body.
[am. b.c. regs. 239/2021, app. 3, s. 1; 191/2022, app. 3, s. 1.] Regulated practice 2 For the purposes of the definition of "regulated practice" in section 4 [definitions in respect of the college of applied biology] Of schedule 1 of the act, the practice of applied biology is Prescribed.
Reserved title 3 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) [reserved titles] Of the act, the following titles are reserved for the exclusive use of Registrants:
(a) "professional biologist"; (b) "biologist in training"; (c) "registered biology technologist"; (d) "registered biology technologist in training"; (e) "applied biology technician"; (f) "applied biology technician in training"; (g) "applied biology limited licensee".
[am. b.c. reg. 191/2022, app. 3, s. 2.] Reserved practice 4 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (b) [reserved practice] Of the act, the practice of applied biology is a reserved practice That may only be carried out by or under the supervision of a Registrant, if the practice relates to providing advice or another Service for a biology objective that, having regard to the protective Purposes, requires the experience or technical knowledge of a Professional biologist, registered biology technologist or applied Biology limited licensee.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2021, app. 3, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 191/2022, app. 3, S. 3.]
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional governance act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 47, ss. 118 and 119.]