B.c. reg. 291/2009 O.c. 664/2009 Deposited december 8, 2009 This consolidation is current to november 22, 2022.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2022 For amendments effective after november 22, 2022.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Assistance to shelter act Assistance to shelter regulation [last amended december 31, 2022 by b.c. reg. 229/2022] Extreme weather conditions 1 (1) In this section:
"act" Means the Assistance to shelter act ; "description of regional boundaries" Means a document entitled description of regional boundaries published By the ministry of housing and social development on december 8, 2009; "fraser region" Means the fraser region as described in description of regional Boundaries, excluding any area to which an extreme weather response Plan applies; "interior region" Means the interior region as described in description of regional Boundaries, excluding any area to which an extreme weather response Plan applies; "north region" Means the north region as described in description of regional Boundaries, excluding any area to which an extreme weather response Plan applies; "temperature" Includes a temperature that takes a wind chill factor into account; "vancouver coastal region" Means the vancouver coastal region as described in description of Regional boundaries, excluding any area to which an extreme weather Response plan applies; "vancouver island region" Means the vancouver island region as described in description of Regional boundaries, excluding any area to which an extreme weather Response plan applies; "weather warning" Means a weather warning issued by environment canada.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "extreme Weather conditions" in section 1 of the act, (a) Any of the following conditions are prescribed for the fraser region, The vancouver coastal region and the vancouver island region:
(i) Environment canada is forecasting, for the next 24-hour period, a Temperature of –4° celsius or lower as the lowest temperature for that Period;
(ii) According to environment canada, the temperature currently is –4° Celsius or lower; (iii) Environment canada, for the next 24-hour period, is forecasting a Temperature of 0° celsius or lower as the lowest temperature for that Period and has issued a weather warning; (iv) According to environment canada the temperature currently is 0° Celsius or lower and environment canada has issued a weather warning, And
(b) Any of the following conditions are prescribed for the interior region And the north region:
(i) Environment canada is forecasting, for the next 24-hour period, a Temperature of –10° celsius or lower as the lowest temperature for That period; (ii) According to environment canada, the temperature currently is –10° Celsius or lower; (iii) Environment canada, for the next 24-hour period, is forecasting a Temperature of 0° celsius or lower as the lowest temperature for that Period and has issued a weather warning; (iv) According to environment canada, the temperature currently is 0° Celsius or lower and environment canada has issued a weather warning.
Police force 2 For the purposes of paragraph (c) of the definition of "police force" In section 1 of the act, the following designated policing units are Prescribed:
(a) Stl'atl'imx tribal police service; (b) South coast british columbia transportation authority police service Designated policing unit.
[en. b.c. reg. 229/2022, app. 5.] Manner of issuing extreme weather alert 3 For the purposes of sections 2 (2) (b) and 3 (1) of the act, the Community representative or the minister, as applicable, must issue an Extreme weather alert by making a written report that includes all of The following information:
(a) The date of the issuance of the extreme weather alert; (b) The time of the issuance of the extreme weather alert; (c) The description of the extreme weather conditions; (d) The description of the geographical area to which the extreme weather Alert applies; (e) The name of the person issuing the extreme weather alert; (f) The names of the persons or entities that will be notified by the Community representative or the minister, as applicable, of the Issuance of the extreme weather alert as required under the act.
Manner of cancelling extreme weather alert 4 For the purposes of sections 2 (2) (e) and (3) and 3 (3) (a) of the Act, the community representative or the minister, as applicable, must Cancel an extreme weather alert by making a written report that Includes all of the following information:
(a) The date of the cancellation of the extreme weather alert; (b) The time of the cancellation of the extreme weather alert; (c) The description of weather conditions that are the basis for the Cancellation of the extreme weather alert; (d) The description of the geographical area to which the extreme weather Alert applied; (e) The name of the person cancelling the extreme weather alert; (f) The names of the persons or entities that will be notified by the Community representative or the minister, as applicable, of the Cancellation of the extreme weather alert as required under the act.
Manner of notification by community representative 5 (1) For the purposes of section 2 (2) (c) of the act, a community Representative must notify (a) The minister of the issuance of an extreme weather alert by sending a Copy of the written report referenced in section 3 of this regulation By fax or electronic mail to both of the following:
(i) The minister; (ii) The chief executive officer of bc housing, and (b) All of the police forces in the geographical area to which the extreme Weather response plan applies of the issuance of an extreme weather Alert by sending a copy of the written report referenced in section 3 Of this regulation by fax or electronic mail to the police forces.
(2) For the purposes of section 2 (2) (f) of the act, a community Representative must notify (a) The minister of the cancellation of an extreme weather alert by Sending a copy of the written report referenced in section 4 of this Regulation by fax or electronic mail to both of the following:
(i) The minister; (ii) The chief executive officer of bc housing, and (b) All of the police forces in the geographical area to which the extreme Weather response plan applies of the cancellation of an extreme Weather alert by sending a copy of the written report referenced in Section 4 of this regulation by fax or electronic mail to the police Forces.
Manner of notification by minister 6 (1) For the purposes of section 3 (2) of the act, the minister must notify All of the police forces in the geographical area to which the extreme Weather alert applies of the issuance of an extreme weather alert by Sending a copy of the written report referenced in section 3 of this Regulation by fax or electronic mail to the police forces.
(2) For the purposes of sections 2 (4) and 3 (3) (b) of the act, the Minister must notify all of the police forces in the geographical area To which the extreme weather alert applied of the cancellation of an Extreme weather alert by sending a copy of the written report Referenced in section 4 of this regulation by fax or electronic mail To the police forces.
Prescribed geographical areas 7 (1) In this section, "municipality" Has the meaning given it in paragraph (b) of the definition of "municipality" in section 29 of the Interpretation act .
(2) For the purposes of section 3 (1) (a) of the act, the following Geographical areas are prescribed:
(a) Any municipality to which no extreme weather response plan applies; (b) The fraser region; (c) The interior region; (d) The north region; (e) The vancouver coastal region; (f) The vancouver island region.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Assistance to shelter act , s.b.c. 2009, c. 32, s. 8.]