B.c. reg. 170/2013 O.c. 221/2013 Deposited april 12, 2013 Effective may 30, 2013 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Athletic commissioner act Athletic commissioner regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Athletic commissioner act ; "judge" Means an official who acts as a judge in a professional contest or Exhibition;
"mixed martial arts" Means unarmed combat between 2 persons involving the use of a Combination of techniques from other martial arts, including, without Limitation, grappling, kicking, striking and holding; "promoter" Means a person who sponsors, organizes or holds a professional contest Or exhibition; "referee" Means an official who acts as a referee in a professional contest or Exhibition;
"scorekeeper" Means an official who keeps the record of the judge's scoring of a Professional contest or exhibition; "timekeeper" Means an official who times a professional contest or exhibition.
Prescribed sports 2 Mixed martial arts is prescribed for the purposes of the definition of "professional contest or exhibition" in section 1 of the act.
Licence fees 3 (1) The classes of licences set out in column 1 of the table are Established.
(2) The fee that must be submitted with an application for a class of Licence is the amount set out in column 2 of the table opposite the Class.
Table
Column 1
Licence class Column 2
Fee
Contestant
$40 Expedited contestant $50 Judge
$0 Matchmaker
$50 Promoter
$120 Referee
$0 Scorekeeper
$20 Second
$20 Timekeeper
$20 (3) The fee for a replacement licence is the fee set out in the table for The applicable licence.
(4) A fee paid under this section is not refundable.
Event permit fee 4 (1) The fee that must be submitted with an application for an event permit Is $100.
(2) A fee paid under this section is not refundable.
Gate receipts 5 An event permit holder must pay to the commissioner 5% of the gross Gate receipts in respect of the event.
Administrative penalties — contraventions 6 For the purposes of section 25 (1) (a) [administrative penalties] Of the act, the following provisions of the act are prescribed:
(a) Section 9 (a), (b), (c) and (d) [licence required] ; (b) Section 13
[event permit required] ; (c) Section 17 (1) and (3) [gross gate receipts] ; (d) Section 37 (3)
[failure to comply with order] ; (e) Section 37 (4) (a), (b), (c) or (d) [offences] .
Administrative penalties — continuing contraventions 7 If a contravention of a provision referred to in section 6 continues For 2 or more consecutive days, a separate administrative penalty may Be imposed for each day the contravention continues.
Transition —
Community charter And
Vancouver charter 8 (1) Despite the repeal of section 143 (2) of the Community charter , that section, as it read immediately before its repeal by section 50 Of the act, continues to apply in relation to any contest or Exhibition of professional boxing, wrestling or other activity Authorized, before the date this section comes into force, in Accordance with the rules referred to in section 143 (2) of the Community charter As it read immediately before its repeal, by an athletic commission Referred to in that section.
(2) Despite the repeal of section 165.7 (c) and the repeal and replacement Of part xix of the Vancouver charter , that section as it read immediately before its repeal, and that part As it read immediately before its repeal and replacement, by section 51 of the act, continue to apply in relation to any professional Contest or exhibition authorized, before the date this section comes Into force, in accordance with any requirements under part xix of the Vancouver charter As it read immediately before that repeal and replacement, by the Vancouver athletic commission.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Athletic commissioner act , s.b.c. 2012, c. 29, sections 47, 48 and 49]