B.c. reg. 103/2014 O.c. 354/2014 Deposited may 30, 2014 Effective june 1, 2014 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to point in time Bc online act Bc online regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 211/2015, november 28, 2016] When money can be collected and retained by operator other than Government
1 (1) For the purposes of section 3 (2) (a) of the Bc online act , an operator of bc online other than the government may collect money Payable to the government or to a public officer for a service or Information if both of the following apply:
(a) The money is payable to the government or to a public officer under an Act listed in the schedule, or a regulation under the act; (b) The act or regulation describes the money in any of the following Ways:
(i) The money is payable to the operator; (ii) The money is an operator fee or operator charge; (iii) The money is payable, under the Environmental management act Or a regulation under that act, to the electronic data distributor.
(2) For the purposes of section 3 (2) (a) of the Bc online act , an operator of bc online other than the government may retain the Whole or a part of money payable to the government or to a public Officer for a service or information if both of the following apply:
(a) The operator may collect the money under subsection (1); (b) An agreement referred to in section 2 (1) of the Bc online act Authorizes the operator to retain the whole or the part of the money.
When money can be collected and retained by government as operator 2 For the purposes of section 3 (2) (b) of the Bc online act , if the government is the operator of bc online, money payable for a Service or information under an act listed in the schedule, or a Regulation under the act, is payable to the government as operator of Bc online if the act or regulation describes the money in any of the Following ways:
(a) The money is payable to the operator; (b) The money is an operator fee or operator charge; (c) The money is payable, under the Environmental management act Or a regulation under that act, to the electronic data distributor.
Schedule
[am. b.c. reg. 211/2015, s. 4.] Business corporations act Cooperative association act Environmental management act Manufactured home act Partnership act Personal property security act Societies act Taxation (rural area) act Wills, estates and succession act [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Bc online act , s.b.c. 1998, c. 24, section 3 (2) (a) and (b)]