B.c. reg. 151/99 O.c. 612/99 Deposited may 28, 1999 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Coastal ferry act British columbia ferry regulation [last amended april 26, 2021 by b.c. reg. 115/2021] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"corporation" Means the british columbia ferry corporation; "driver" Has the same meaning as in the Motor vehicle act ; "highway" Means highway as defined in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act ; "operator" Has the same meaning as in the Motor vehicle act ; "pedestrian" Means pedestrian as defined in section 119 of the Motor vehicle act ; "vehicle" Means vehicle as defined in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act .
Application of other acts 2 The
Motor vehicle act , the Transportation act And the Commercial transport act Apply on terminals and ferries to pedestrians and to the operation of Vehicles.
[am. b.c. reg. 546/2004, app. s. 5.] Requirement to obey corporation employees 3 The driver of a vehicle and any pedestrian entering or using a Terminal or boarding a ferry must obey the directions and instructions Of employees of the corporation relating to the use and operation of The terminal or ferry.
Children travelling on a ferry 4 Children under 12 years of age are not permitted to travel on a ferry Unless accompanied by an adult.
Skates, skateboards and bicycles 5 A person must not (a) Ride or operate skates or a skateboard on a terminal or ferry, or (b) Ride or operate a bicycle on a terminal or ferry, other than as Directed by an employee of the corporation.
Cargo and vehicle inspection 6 On a terminal or ferry the driver of a vehicle, at the request of an Employee of the corporation, must produce, to be taken in hand by the Employee for the purpose of inspection, (a) Every licence and permit issued, in respect of the driver or of the Vehicle, its operation or its cargo, under the Motor vehicle act , the Commercial transport act Or this regulation, and (b) All pertinent bills of lading or cargo manifests.
No u-turns 7 A person must not make a u-turn, or otherwise reverse the direction in Which a vehicle is proceeding, while driving or operating a vehicle on A terminal or ferry, except (a) To comply with traffic control signs or devices, or (b) As directed by an employee of the corporation.
Traffic control signs and devices 8 (1) If a sign or device on a terminal or ferry indicates the direction or Manner in which pedestrians must proceed, a pedestrian must not Proceed other than as indicated, except in accordance with the Instructions of an employee of the corporation.
(2) If a sign or device on a terminal or ferry indicates the direction or Manner in which vehicles must proceed, a person must not drive or Operate a vehicle other than as indicated, except in accordance with The instructions of an employee of the corporation.
Stopping, standing and parking of vehicles, only as authorized 9 On a terminal or ferry a person must not stop a vehicle, stand a Vehicle, park a vehicle or leave a vehicle unattended except (a) In areas designated for public parking, (b) As indicated by, or in the course of complying with, visible signs, Signs restricting parking or devices that are in or on the terminal or Ferry, or (c) In accordance with the instructions of an employee of the corporation.
Vehicle breakdown on terminal or ferry 10 If a vehicle breaks down or is otherwise disabled on a terminal or Ferry, an employee of the corporation, at the cost of the owner or Operator of the vehicle, may arrange for towing or removal of the Vehicle from the terminal or ferry, or for other assistance.
Vehicle unlawfully on terminal or ferry 11 If a vehicle is unlawfully stopped, left standing, parked or left Unattended on a terminal or ferry, an employee of the corporation, at The cost of the owner or operator of the vehicle, may arrange for Towing or removal of the vehicle from the terminal or ferry.
Parking restrictions 12 (1) A public parking lot on a terminal may be used only for ferry patron Parking or as necessary by vehicles taking ferry patrons to or from The terminal.
(2) A person must not park a vehicle in a public parking lot on a terminal In contravention of any posted signs.
Parking fees 13 A person who parks a vehicle in a public parking lot on a terminal Must
(a) Stop and pay any parking fee in effect for that lot, according to the Rates and method established by the corporation, and (b) Ensure that a valid parking ticket or permit is displayed in the Parked vehicle.
Vehicles subject to tow-away for non-payment of fees 14 On a terminal, if a vehicle is parked in a public parking lot for Which parking fees are in effect and a valid parking ticket or permit Is not displayed prominently in the vehicle, an employee of the Corporation, at the cost of the owner or operator of the vehicle, may Arrange for towing or removal of the vehicle from the terminal.
Travel time restriction for vehicles overweight or oversized 15 If the corporation requires that drivers of overweight or oversize Vehicles, operated under special permits issued in accordance with the Regulations under the Motor vehicle act And the Commercial transport act , proceed on a terminal or ferry only at specified hours and on Certain days of the week, (a) Every driver of an oversize vehicle to which the requirement applies Must comply with the requirement, and (b) Every owner and every operator of an oversize vehicle to which the Requirement applies must ensure compliance with the requirement.
Inspections to monitor compliance with other acts 16 An employee of the corporation who is authorized by the corporation to Carry out inspections under this section and has reasonable grounds to Believe that a vehicle is being operated on a terminal or ferry in Contravention of the Transport of dangerous goods act Or the regulations under that act, or of the Canada shipping act Or the regulations under that act, or of the Transportation of dangerous goods act (canada), or the regulations under that act, may carry out an Inspection of the vehicle to determine whether or not the vehicle is Being so operated.
Special permit required for certain vehicles and loads 17 A person must not bring any of the following onto a terminal or ferry Unless the person holds a valid special permit under the Motor vehicle act Allowing the person to do so, or unless otherwise permitted by the Corporation:
(a) Vehicles with pneumatic tires that are flat or not inflated with air Or vehicles with metal tires; (b) Animals that are being led, ridden or driven; (c) Push-carts, wheelbarrows or similar devices; (d) Vehicles or loads in respect of which there are reasonable grounds, in The opinion of an employee of the corporation, to believe that Bringing the vehicle or load onto the terminal or ferry, the presence Of the vehicle or load on the terminal or ferry or operating the Vehicle on the terminal or ferry might endanger persons or property or Render the use of the terminal or ferry unsafe.
Requirement to pay fares 18 (1) The driver of a vehicle and any pedestrian entering on or using a Terminal or ferry must stop and pay the fare or fares required, According to the rates fixed by the corporation under the british Columbia ferry tariff.
(2) A person who enters a terminal or who boards a ferry must present Proof of payment of the fare or fares required, if requested to do so By an employee of the corporation.
(3) A person who does not present proof of payment of the fare or fares Required, when requested to do so under subsection (2), must pay the Fare or fares.
(4) An employee may order a person to leave a terminal, a ferry that is Docked, or both if the person (a) Does not pay the fare or fares as required by subsection (1), or (b) Does not pay the fare or fares required to be paid under subsection (3) after having refused or failed to comply with a request under Subsection (2) to present proof of payment of the appropriate fare or Fares.
Requirement to obey signs and rules 19 If a person (a) Does not obey a sign posted by the corporation on a terminal or ferry, Or
(b) Fails to comply with the rules of the corporation for a terminal or Ferry when required to do so by an employee of the corporation, Any employee of the corporation may (c) Deny the person permission to enter the terminal or to board the Ferry, or (d) Order the person to leave the terminal or to leave the ferry at the First safe opportunity and at a time when the ferry is docked.
Embarking and disembarking 20 A person must not (a) Board a ferry against the orders or without the permission of the Master or officer in charge of the ferry, or (b) Disembark from a ferry other than (i) As directed by the master or officer in charge of the ferry, and (ii) In the manner, at a time and according to the procedures established By the corporation.
Public safety and protection of property 21 (1) A person must not operate, use or activate any alarm, emergency device Or emergency equipment installed on a terminal or ferry, except in an Emergency.
(2) A person who operates, uses or activates an alarm, emergency device or Emergency equipment on a terminal or ferry must immediately report the Matter to (a) The first available employee of the corporation, or (b) In accordance with any posted rules.
(3) A person must not (a) Impede an employee of the corporation who is engaged in (i) The navigation or operation of a ferry, or (ii) The management or operation of a terminal, (b) Interfere with the operation of a terminal or ferry, (c) Damage, tamper with or remove any sign, equipment, fitting or device Installed on a terminal or ferry, (d) On a terminal or aboard a ferry, enter or occupy any place not Intended for public use or access, unless authorized to do so, (e) Smoke or carry lighted smoking material in the interior passenger Areas of terminals or ferries, or on the vehicle decks of ferries, (f) Sell or offer for sale any item or merchandise on a terminal or ferry, Unless authorized in writing by the corporation, or (g) Solicit for any purpose on a terminal or ferry.
(h) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 115/2021, s. (b).] (4) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 115/2021, s. (b).] [am. b.c. reg. 115/2021, ss. (a) and (b).] Offence
22 (1) A person who contravenes section 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 (1) or (2), 9, 12 (2), 13, 15, 17, 18 (1), 20 or 21 (1) or (3) commits an offence.
(2) A person who disobeys an order under section 18 (4) or 19 (d) commits An offence.
(3) A person who enters a terminal or ferry, although denied permission to Do so under section 19 (c), commits an offence.
[am. b.c. reg. 115/2021, s. (c).] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Coastal ferry act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 14, s. 76.]