B.c. reg. 388/2003 O.c. 1012/2003 Deposited october 24, 2003 This consolidation is current to august 29, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after august 29, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Business number act Business number regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 10/2019, january 24, 2019] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Business number act ; "program account number" Means a number, consisting of the business number and an alphanumeric Identifier, assigned to a business entity by a public body, that is Used by the public body in administering a program under a designated Enactment.
Adoption of system of business numbers 2 The numbering system used by the minister of national revenue for the Purposes of the definition of "business number" in the Income tax act (canada) is adopted as the system of business numbers for identifying Business entities for the purposes of the act.
Prescribed business information 3 The following information about a business entity is prescribed for The purposes of the definition of "business information":
(a) Its business number; (b) Its program account number; (c) An identification number assigned to the entity by a public body in Administering a designated enactment before a business number was Assigned to the entity under this act; (d) Its telephone number and facsimile number; (e) Its electronic mail address; (f) The number of the registration certificate issued to the entity under The
Social service tax act ; (g) The number of the registration certificate issued to the entity under The
Hotel room tax act ; (h) The number of the dealer's permit issued to the entity under the Tobacco tax act ; (i) The active or closed status of the business number, the reason for a Change of status and the date on which the status changed; (j) The active or closed status of a program account number, the reason For a change of status and the date on which the status changed; (k) If the entity is a partnership, the names of at least two partners; (l) If the entity, under the Business corporations act , Cooperative association act Or
Societies act , as applicable, (i) Has had published in respect of the entity a notice that the entity May be dissolved or have its registration cancelled, (ii) Is dissolved or its registration is cancelled, (iii) Is restored, (iv) Is continued in british columbia or under the laws of another Jurisdiction,
(v) Is an amalgamated company, association or society, or was part of an Amalgamation,
(vi) Has a receiver or receiver manager appointed, (vii) Has a liquidator appointed, or (viii) Has changed its name; (m) If the entity is registered or has a certificate filed under the Partnership act , whether the entity has had a notice of dissolution filed in respect Of the entity or whether its registration or certificate has been Cancelled;
(n) The registration number issued to the entity under the Provincial sales tax act ; (o) The registration number issued to the entity under the Employer health tax act .
[am. b.c. regs. 406/2004, s. (b); 111/2006, s. (a); 330/2012, sch. 1, S. 1; 211/2015, s. 13; 10/2019, s. 1.] Designated enactments 4 The following acts and the regulations made under those acts are Designated enactments for the purposes of the act:
Agricultural produce grading act Agri-food choice and quality act Animal health act Assessment act Business corporations act Cannabis control and licensing act Cannabis distribution act Carbon tax act Clean energy act Coal act Consumption tax rebate and transition act Cooperative association act Creston valley wildlife act Dike maintenance act Drainage, ditch and dike act Drinking water protection act Ecological reserve act Employer health tax act Environmental assessment act Environmental management act Farm income insurance act Financial administration act Fish inspection act Fisheries act Food safety act Forest act Forest and range practices act Forest practices code of british columbia act Forestry revitalization act Forestry service providers protection act Greenhouse gas reduction (cap and trade) act Greenhouse gas reduction (renewable and low carbon fuel Requirements) act Greenhouse gas reduction targets act Heritage conservation act Hotel room tax act Income tax act Industrial roads act Insurance for crops act Insurance premium tax act Integrated pest management act International business activity act Land act Land title act Liquor control and licensing act Liquor distribution act Logging tax act Milk industry act Mineral land tax act Mineral tax act Mineral tenure act Mines act Mining right of way act Ministry of agriculture and food act Ministry of lands, parks and housing act Motor fuel tax act Natural gas price act New housing transition tax and rebate act Oil and gas activities act Park act Partnership act Petroleum and natural gas act Plant protection act Procurement services act Property transfer tax act Provincial sales tax act Railway act Railway safety act Range act Riparian areas protection act Seed potato act Significant projects streamlining act Social service tax act Societies act Sustainable environment fund act Taxation (rural area) act Tobacco tax act Transport of dangerous goods act Transportation act Veterinary drugs act Water sustainability act Water users' communities act Weed control act Wildfire act Wildlife act Workers compensation act [en. b.c. reg. 11/2015; am. b.c. regs. 81/2015; 41/2016, s. 5; 211/2015, s. 14; 201/2018; 10/2019, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Business number act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 50, ss. 3 and 12]