B.c. reg. 143/2018 O.c. 357/2018 Deposited july 9, 2018 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Cannabis distribution act Cannabis distribution regulation Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Cannabis distribution act .
Disclosure of cannabis records and information 2 For the purposes of section 14 (2) (a) of the act, a cannabis official May disclose cannabis records and information as follows:
(a) For the purposes of the administration or enforcement of the act, the Cannabis control and licensing act , the Liquor control and licensing act , the Liquor distribution act , the regulations under any of those acts or an enactment of british Columbia or canada relating to taxation; (b) For the purposes of the administration of the Cannabis act (canada); (c) In a proceeding before a court or a judicial or quasi-judicial Tribunal;
(d) If an enactment of british columbia or canada requires or authorizes The disclosure; (e) To the legal counsel of the person in possession of the cannabis Records and information; (f) To a law enforcement agency; (g) For the purpose of selling non-confidential sales data; (h) For the purpose of selling to a person sales data relating to the Person’s sales of cannabis; (i) For the purpose of the compilation of statistical information by the Government or the government of canada.
Cannabis records and information supplied to the government in Confidence
3 For the purpose of section 21 (1) (b) of the Freedom of information and protection of privacy act , the following classes of cannabis records and information, whether Or not supplied to the government, are deemed to be supplied to the Government in confidence:
(a) Cannabis records and information related to the acquisition by the Government of cannabis from a federal producer or other person who Supplies cannabis to the government; (b) Cannabis records and information related to the acquisition by the Government of cannabis accessories from a person who supplies cannabis Accessories to the government; (c) Cannabis records and information related to the sale of cannabis or Cannabis accessories acquired by the government from a person referred To in paragraph (a) or (b).
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Cannabis distribution act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 28, ss. 21 and 23]