B.c. reg. 65/90 O.c. 285/90 Deposited february 23, 1990 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local government act and community charter Capital regional district regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 117/2018, june 15, 2018] Traffic safety commission 1 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Establish and operate a traffic safety commission as an extended Service.
Local services 2 (1) The capital regional district may, by bylaw, establish and operate Services, as local services, that were covered by the objects, powers, Obligations, duties, limitations and conditions of the capital Regional district as set out in division xxxvii of the letters patent Of the capital regional district on july 30, 1989.
(2) The capital regional district may, by bylaw, establish and provide for The operation of services, as local services, that were covered by (a) The galiano island activity room specified area establishment and loan Authorization by-law, 1982, or (b) The langford enhancement society specified area establishment by-law No. 1, 1988
On july 30, 1989.
[en. b.c. reg. 105/90.] Extended services 3 The capital regional district may, by bylaw, establish and operate Services, as extended services, that were covered by the objects, Powers, obligations, duties, limitations and conditions of the capital Regional district as set out in (a) Division vi, (b) Division xi — community health, (c) Division xxv, (d) Division xxvi, (e) Division xxix, (f) Division xxxi, (g) Division xxxvi, or (h) Division xxxviii Of letters patent of the capital regional district on july 30, 1989.
[en. b.c. reg. 105/90.] Commonwealth games grant-in-aid 4 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Provide commonwealth games grant-in-aid as a local service.
[en. b.c. reg. 420/90.] Emergency programs 5 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Provide emergency programs as an extended service under the Emergency program act .
[en. b.c. reg. 9/93.] Small craft harbour facilities 6 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Establish, acquire and operate a service of small craft harbour Facilities under section 550 of the Municipal act , as a local service.
[en. b.c. reg. 16/97.] Towing in parks and on trails 7 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to allow For the towing of illegally parked vehicles within community parks, Regional parks and regional trails under section 124 (1) (c), (f), (g) And (u) of the Motor vehicle act As an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 213/97.] Review and recommendation 8 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Review and make recommendations to appropriate agencies concerning the Operation of emergency radio and electronic communications services For the capital regional district.
[en. b.c. reg. 103/99.] Section 8 extended service 9 The service of conducting the review and making the recommendations as Described in section 8 is an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 103/99.] Emergency communications 10 The capital regional district is granted the additional power as an Extended service to provide an emergency communications service or to Make contributions towards the cost of an emergency communications Service operated by another person or organization.
[en. b.c. reg. 179/2000.] Voting on part 14 decisions for the juan de fuca electoral area 11 (1) This section applies if (a) A resolution or bylaw under part 14 [planning and land use management] Of the Local government act Applies only to (i) All or part of the langford electoral area, as it existed on September 1, 1999, or (ii) All or part of the sooke electoral area, as it existed on September 1, 1999, and (b) Voting on the resolution or bylaw would otherwise be subject to the Voting rule established by section 207 (5) [all directors vote if only one otherwise entitled] Of the Local government act , And operates to provide exceptions to the rule established by that Section.
(2) If the resolution or bylaw applies only to all or part of what was the Sooke electoral area, the persons entitled to vote on the resolution Or bylaw are (a) The directors for (i) The juan de fuca electoral area, (ii) The city of colwood, (iii) The district of metchosin, and (iv) The district of sooke, and (b) One director for the district of langford, who must be (i) The mayor of the municipality, or (ii) If the mayor is not on the board, another director for that Municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the Municipality in these matters.
(3) If the resolution or bylaw applies only to all or part of what was the Langford electoral area, the persons entitled to vote on the Resolution or bylaw are (a) The directors for (i) The juan de fuca electoral area, (ii) The district of central saanich, (iii) The district of highlands, (iv) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 126/2013, s. 2 (a).] (b) One director for the district of saanich, who must be (i) The mayor of the municipality, or (ii) If the mayor is not on the board, another director for that Municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the Municipality in these matters, and (c) One director for the district of langford, who must be (i) The mayor of the municipality, or (ii) If the mayor is not on the board, another director for that Municipality who is chosen by the chair of the board to represent the Municipality in these matters.
(4) For the purposes of transition, if an affected bylaw has been given First reading but has not been adopted at the time this section comes Into force, this section applies only to votes in relation to the Bylaw that happen after that time.
[en. b.c. reg. 287/2001; am. b.c. regs. 126/2013, ss. 1 and 2; 117/2018, s. 3.] Acquiring access to regional trails 12 For the purpose of establishing and maintaining a regional trail, the Capital regional district is granted the additional power to acquire, By lease, licence or permit for any term, access to or over land Within an area designated as set out in section 4 (1) (a) of the Park (regional) act .
[en. b.c. reg. 78/2001.] Emergency program act 13 The capital regional district is granted the same power that a Municipality has as a local authority under the Emergency program act .
[en. b.c. reg. 126/2004.] Public health 14 The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Exercise the powers conferred on a council of a municipality under Section 8 (3) (i) of the Community charter .
[en. b.c. reg. 2/2007.] Animal control authority — domestic cats 15 (1) The capital regional district may, by bylaw, regulate or prohibit the Keeping of domestic cats and define areas in which domestic cats may Be kept or may not be kept.
(2) For the purposes of enforcing a bylaw under subsection (1), the Capital regional district may, by bylaw, do one or more of the Following:
(a) Provide for the seizure, impounding and detention of domestic cats That are being kept in contravention of a bylaw under subsection (1); (b) Establish, maintain and operate facilities as pounds for domestic cats Seized, impounded or detained under paragraph (a); (c) Regulate and establish the fines and fees, including damages for Domestic cats trespassing on private property, to be levied and Collected by pound keepers; (d) Provide for the sale or destruction of impounded domestic cats if the Fines and fees are not paid within a reasonable time.
[en. b.c. reg. 245/2009.] Stormwater source control program 16 (1) The capital regional district is granted the additional power to Exercise the powers conferred on a council of a municipality under Section 8 (3) (j) of the Community charter For the purposes of regulating, prohibiting and imposing requirements In respect of discharges to the municipal stormwater system and Watercourses.
(2) This power is limited in application to the geographic areas of the Municipalities of central saanich, north saanich and sidney.
[en. b.c. reg. 340/2012.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local government act , r.s.b.c. 2015, c. 1, section 296; Community charter , s.b.c. 2003, c. 26, section 281]