B.c. reg. 527/95 O.c. 1589/95 Deposited december 15, 1995 Effective january 29, 1996 This consolidation is current to january 9, 2024.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after january 9, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Child, family and community service act Child, family and community service regulation [last amended march 30, 2023 by b.c. reg. 82/2023] Part 1 — introductory provisions Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Child, family and community service act ; "administrative review" Means a review conducted in response to a request under section 15 (1); "interim plan of care" Means a plan of care prepared for a presentation hearing; "review authority" Means the person or persons designated under section 14 to Conduct an administrative review.
[am. b.c. regs. 400/99, s. 1; 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 1.] Best interests of child 2 Where there is a reference in this regulation to the best interests of A child, all relevant factors must be considered in determining the Child's best interests, including for example, the factors listed in Section 4 of the act.
Part 2 — family support agreements, reports and plans of care Terms to be included in agreements 3 An agreement under section 5, 6 or 7 of the act must include terms Permitting
(a) The parent to terminate the agreement on giving the director notice as Set out in the agreement, and (b) The director to terminate the agreement on giving the parent notice as Set out in the agreement, which must provide for at least 7 days' Notice.
Reports to court about removal, return and withdrawal from proceeding 4 (1) For the purpose of section 33.2 (1) of the act, a report must be in Form f.
(2) For the purposes of sections 35 (1) and 42.1 (5) of the act, a report On the circumstances that caused a director to remove a child must be In form a.
(3) For the purposes of (a) A return under section 33 (1.1), (a.1) Section 33.01 (2),
(b) Section 33 (3), and (c) Section 48 (2)
Of the act, a report or withdrawal must be in form b.
(4) Despite subsections (1) to (3), an address and telephone number of a Person other than the director need not be included in a report or Withdrawal if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or Annoyed.
[en. b.c. reg. 171/98, s. 1; am. b.c. regs. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 2; 82/2014, sch. s. 1; 187/2018, app., s. 1.] Information about less disruptive measures 5 For the purposes of section 35 (1) (c) of the act, information about Any less disruptive measures considered by a director before removing A child must be in form a.
[am. b.c. reg. 171/98, s. 2.] Plans of care 6 A plan of care must be prepared in writing by the director responsible For the child.
Contents of interim plan of care 7 (1) An interim plan of care relating to the removal of a child under Sections 30 and 42 of the act must be in form a.
(1.1) An interim plan of care relating to an application under Section 29.1 of the act must be in form f.
(2) In addition to the information required under sections 35 (1) (c), 33.2 (1) (b) and 42.1 (5) of the act, an interim plan of care must Include the following:
(a) The child's name, sex, and date of birth; (b) The child's current living arrangement; (c) Whether or not the child's views on the plan have been considered; (d) If known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work Telephone numbers of the child's parents; (e) Whether or not the parents have been involved in the development of The plan; (f) The name, business address and business telephone number of the Director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency Phone number; (g) The director's recommendations about the care and supervision of the Child and about access to the child; (h) If the child is an indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support The child to learn about and practise the child's indigenous Traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community.
(3) Despite subsection (2) (b) and (d), an address and telephone number of A person other than the director need not be included if it might Result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.
[am. b.c. regs. 171/98, s. 3; 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 3; 17/2019, app., S. 1.]
Contents of other plans of care 8 (1) In this section, "plan of care" Means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an Application for an order, (a) Other than an interim order, that a child be returned to or remain in The custody of the parent apparently entitled to custody and be under A director's supervision for a specified period, or (b) That a child be placed in the custody of a director under (i) A temporary custody order, or (ii) A continuing custody order.
(2) A plan of care must include the following information:
(a) The child's name, sex, and date of birth; (b) The child's current living arrangement and whether an order has been Made under the act about the child; (c) The overall goal of the plan of care; (d) Whether or not the child's views on the plan of care have been Considered;
(e) If known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work Telephone numbers of the child's parents and siblings; (f) The name, business address and business telephone number of the Director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency Phone number; (g) In the case of an indigenous child other than a treaty first nation Child or a nisg̱a'a child, the name of the child's first nation or Indigenous community, in the case of a treaty first nation child, the Name of the child's treaty first nation and in the case of a nisg̱a'a Child, the nisg̱a'a lisims government; (h) The parents' involvement in the development of the plan of care, Including their views, if any, on the plan; (i) In the case of an indigenous child other than a treaty first nation Child or a nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the child's first nation Or indigenous community, in the case of a treaty first nation child, The involvement of the child's treaty first nation and in the case of A nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the nisg̱a'a lisims government, in The development of the plan of care, including its views, if any, on The plan; (j) If the director is applying for an order described in subsection (1) (a) or a temporary custody order, (i) A description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed To by the parent, and (ii) The goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the method Of determining if they have been met; (k) A description of the services to be provided to the child; (l) The goals of the services to be provided to the child and the method Of determining if they have been met; (m) A description of how the director proposes to meet the child's need For
(i) Continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents, Relatives and friends, (ii) Continuity of education and of health care, including care for any Special health care needs the child may have, and (iii) Continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and Recreational activities; (n) In the case of an indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support The child to learn about and practise the child's indigenous Traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community and to comply with section 71 (3) of the act; (o) A description of any outstanding needs of the child that have not been Resolved and the plan for resolving them; (p) If the director intends to apply for a continuing custody order, a Description of the arrangements being made to meet the child's need For permanent stable relationships; (q) A schedule for the review of the plan of care.
(3) Despite subsection (2) (b) and (e), an address and telephone number of A person other than the director need not be included if it might Result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.
[am. b.c. regs. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 1; 36/2009, s. 1; 274/2012, sch.
S. 1; 17/2019, app., s. 2.] Contents of plan of care if director seeking order that child be Placed in temporary or permanent custody of care provider 8.01 (1) In this section:
"care provider" Means the person, other than a director or parent, in whose custody The director is applying to the court for (a) A temporary custody order to place a child, or (b) An order under section 54.01 (5) of the act to permanently transfer Custody of a child; "plan of care" Means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an Application that a child be placed in the temporary or permanent Custody of a care provider.
(2) A plan of care must include the following information:
(a) The information described in section 8 (2) (a), (c) to (e), (g) to (i), and (o); (b) The child's current living arrangement and whether (i) An agreement has been made under section 8 (1) of the act about the Child,
(ii) An order has been made under the act about the child, and (iii) An application is being made for a temporary custody order or an order Permanently transferring custody under section 54.01 (5) of the act; (c) The name, business address and business telephone number of the Director providing services to the child, including an after-hours Emergency phone number; (d) The care provider's involvement in the development of the plan of care Including the care provider's views on the plan; (e) A description of the services to be provided to the care provider as Agreed to by the care provider; (f) The goals of the services to be provided to the care provider and the Method of determining if they have been met; (g) Whether financial assistance is to be provided to the care provider; (h) A description of how the care provider proposes to meet the child's Need for (i) Continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents, Relatives and friends, (ii) Continuity of education and health care, including care for any Special health care needs the child may have, and (iii) Continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and Recreational activities; (i) In the case of an indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support The child to learn about and practise the child's indigenous Traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community; (j) Confirmation that the director is satisfied with the care provider's Ability to care for the child; (k) If the director is applying for a temporary custody order, (i) A description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed To by the parent, (ii) A description of the services to be provided to the child, and (iii) The goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the child And the method of determining if they have been met.
(3) Despite subsection (2) (a) and (b), an address and telephone number of A person other than the director need not be included if it might Result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.
[en. b.c. reg. 274/2012, sch. s. 2; am. b.c. regs. 82/2014, sch. s. 2; 17/2019, app., s. 3.] Part 2.1 — agreements with youths and adults When a youth needs assistance 8.1 A director may enter into an agreement with a youth under section 12.2 Of the act only if the director is satisfied that each of the Following apply in respect to the youth:
(a) The youth (i) Is affected by a significant adverse condition, such as severe Substance abuse, a significant behavioural or mental disorder, or Sexual exploitation as that term is used in section 13 (1.1) of the Act,
(ii) Is in the care of a director under an order or agreement that is about To expire, and it would be in the best interests of the youth if an Agreement under section 12.2 of the act were in place following expiry Of the order or agreement, or (iii) Is or is likely to be in need of protection as described in section 13 Of the act, and an agreement with the youth under section 12.2 of the Act would be a safe and effective alternative to dealing with the Youth under part 3 of the act; (b) Reasonable efforts to support the youth in the home of the youth's Parent or other adult person have been unsuccessful; (c) The youth requires services and assistance as described by section 12.2 (2) of the act beyond that which is available to the youth Through other sources, including through other government delivered or Government sponsored programs; (d) The youth understands the responsibilities and implications of Entering into the agreement; (e) The youth demonstrates ability and readiness to (i) Engage in supported independent living, (ii) Address and manage risks that may affect the youth's safety and Well-being, and (iii) Implement a plan for independence prepared under section 12.2 (3) of The act.
[en. b.c. reg. 464/2003; am. b.c. reg. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 4.] Contents of plan for independence 8.2 For the purposes of section 12.2 (3) of the act, a plan for Independence must contain the following:
(a) A description of the behavioural commitments of the youth, the Responsibilities and promised acts of the youth and the director under The agreement, and any relevant timelines; (b) Information necessary to support and preserve the youth's cultural, Racial, linguistic and religious heritage; (c) In the case of an indigenous youth, information necessary to support The youth to learn about and practise the youth's indigenous Traditions, customs and language and to belong to the youth's Indigenous community; (d) A description of the youth's plan to make the transition to Independence, addressing education, employment, residential Arrangements and interpersonal relationships; (e) A plan outlining how the youth's performance under the agreement, Including accomplishments and successes, will be monitored throughout The term of the agreement.
[en. b.c. reg. 400/99, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 17/2019, app., s. 4.] Person eligible to enter into adult agreement 8.3 A director may enter into an agreement under section 12.3 of the act With a person who, until the person's 19th birthday, (a) Received support services or financial assistance, or both, under Section 12.2 of the act, (b) Was in the continuing custody of a director, or (c) Was in the guardianship of a director of adoption or of a director Under section 51 of the Infants act .
[en. b.c. reg. 240/2016, app., s. 2.] Maximum duration of adult agreements 8.4 Whether one or more directors enters into one or more agreements under Section 12.3 of the act with a person, (a) The total of the terms of all the agreements, including renewals of The agreements, must not exceed 84 months, and (b) No agreement may extend beyond the person's 27th birthday.
[en. b.c. reg. 240/2016, app., s. 2; am. b.c. regs. 20/2018; 82/2023, S. (a).] Time limits extended due to covid-19 emergency 8.5 (1) In this section:
"agreement" Means an agreement made under section 12.3 of the act; "covid-19 emergency" Means the emergency that is the subject of (a) The notice provided on march 17, 2020 by the provincial health officer Under section 52 (2) of the Public health act , and (b) The declaration of a state of emergency made on march 18, 2020, and Any extension of that declaration, under section 9 of the Emergency program act ; "eligible person" Means an adult (a) With whom a director has entered into an agreement, (b) Who was, on or after march 17, 2020, enrolled in a program referred to In the agreement, and (c) Who did not voluntarily cease enrolment in the program during the Suspension period; "end of the covid-19 emergency" Means the later of the following:
(a) The date on which the provincial health officer provides notice under Section 59 (b) of the Public health act That the covid-19 emergency has passed; (b) The date on which the last extension of the declaration of a state of Emergency, referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of "covid-19 Emergency", expires or is cancelled; "enrolled" , in relation to a life skills or rehabilitative program, includes to Be registered or otherwise listed as a person who is taking part in The program; "program" Means any of the following types of programs that are referred to in An eligible adult's agreement:
(a) An educational or vocational training program; (b) A life skills or rehabilitative program; "suspension period" Means the period that begins march 17, 2020 and ends as follows:
(a) If the end of the covid-19 emergency occurs on or before the 15th day Of a month, on the last day of the month; (b) If the end of the covid-19 emergency occurs after the 15th day of a Month, on the last day of the following month.
(2) This section applies despite section 8.4 and anything to the contrary In an eligible person's agreement.
(3) The running of the period set out in section 8.4 (a) is suspended, in Relation to an eligible person, during the suspension period if a Director is satisfied of either of the following:
(a) The eligible person is not participating in a program because the Program is temporarily suspended for a reason related to the covid-19 Emergency;
(b) The eligible person (i) Is not participating in a program because the program is suspended as Scheduled, and (ii) Is not employed or otherwise self-supporting for a reason related to The covid-19 emergency.
(4) If an eligible person to whom subsection (3) applies turns 27 years Old either during the suspension period or, if the eligible person's Program resumes, during the current term of the program, the limit set Out in section 8.4 (b) does not apply and the director may continue Payments under the agreement until whichever of the following applies:
(a) On the date on which the director is satisfied that the eligible Person's program will not resume; (b) If the eligible person's program resumes, the end of the month in Which the current term of the program ends.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2020; am. b.c. reg. 82/2023, s. (b).] Part 3 — mediation Child protection mediators 9 (1) For the purposes of section 22 of the act, a director must establish a Roster of mediators.
(2) If a director and another person agree to mediation as a means of Resolving an issue relating to a child or a plan of care, the director Must choose from the roster a mediator acceptable to the other person.
Assistance with costs of attending mediation 10 If a person who has agreed with a director on mediation needs Assistance, the director may pay all or part of any day-to-day Expenses that are necessary for the person to attend mediation, Including expenses for (a) Transportation,
(b) Day care, and (c) Food.
[am. b.c. reg. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 5.] Part 4 — indigenous organizations and Designated representatives Indigenous legal entity 10.1 For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "first nation" In section 1 of the act, the following indigenous legal entities are Prescribed:
(a) Westbank first nation; (b) Sechelt indian band established under the Sechelt indian band self-government act (canada).
[en. b.c. reg. 17/2019, app., s. 6.] Indigenous organizations 11 For the purpose of being informed by the director under section 33.1 (4) (c), 34 (3) (d), 36 (2.1) (e) or 42.1 (3) (c) of the act about Presentation hearings, (a) The indigenous organizations listed in column 2 of schedule 1 are Prescribed for cases involving first nations children of the first Nations listed opposite in column 1, and (b) The indigenous organizations listed in column 2 of schedule 2 are Prescribed for cases involving indigenous children, other than treaty First nation children, nisg̱a'a children and children referred to in Paragraph (a), (i) Who are 12 years of age or over and have identified any of the Indigenous communities listed opposite in column 1, or (ii) Who are under 12 years of age and whose parents have identified any of The indigenous communities listed opposite in column 1.
[en. b.c. reg. 17/2019, app., s. 7.] Designated representatives 12 (1) The designated representative of a first nation is as follows:
(a) If the first nation is named in column 1 of schedule 1, a person who Holds a position listed opposite in column 3; (b) If the first nation is not named in column 1 of schedule 1, a person Who, for that first nation, (i) Holds the position of first nation manager, (ii) Holds a position of social development officer, or (iii) If there is neither a first nation manager nor a social development Officer for that first nation, holds an equivalent position.
(2) The designated representative of the nisg̱a'a lisims government is a Person who holds the position listed in schedule 1a.
(2.1) The designated representative of a treaty first nation listed in Column 1 of schedule 1b is a person who holds the position listed Opposite in column 2.
(3) The designated representative of an indigenous community listed in Column 1 of schedule 2 is a person who holds a position listed Opposite in column 3.
[en. b.c. reg. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 36/2009, s. 2; 17/2019, app., s. 8.] Part 4.1 — agreements with indigenous communities Additional purposes 12.1 The following purposes are prescribed in respect of which a director May make an agreement under section 92.1 (2) (c) of the act:
(a) To assist the first nation, nisg̱a'a nation, treaty first nation or Indigenous community to fulfill its shared responsibility for the Upbringing and well-being of its indigenous children by providing to The first nation, nisg̱a'a nation, treaty first nation or indigenous Community, on a regular basis, (i) The name, date of birth and care status of all of its indigenous Children whose care status is described by one of the following:
(a) A child in care; (b) A child who is not described in clause (a) and who is the subject of An interim order for custody or a temporary custody order made under The act, and (ii) The names of the parents of each child referred to in subparagraph (i) Unless the child is a child in care under section 6 or 7 of the act; (b) To involve the first nation, nisg̱a'a nation, treaty first nation or Indigenous community in the development of less disruptive measures Respecting the indigenous children of the first nation, nisg̱a'a Nation, treaty first nation or indigenous community.
[en. b.c. reg. 17/2019, app., s. 9.] Part 5 — administrative reviews Repealed
13 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 6.] Director to designate persons to conduct reviews 14 (1) A director must designate a person or persons as a review authority to Conduct administrative reviews.
(2) A person who was involved in the matter under review must not be Designated as a review authority for that matter.
[am. b.c. reg. 57/2012, s. 1.] Request for review 15 (0.1) In this section:
"delegate of the representative for children and youth" Means a person acting under authority delegated to the person under Section 8 of the Representative for children and youth act To perform the functions under section 6 (a) (ii) of that act; "representative for children and youth" Means the representative for children and youth appointed under Section 2 of the Representative for children and youth act ; "young adult" Means a person who has entered into an agreement, or is eligible to Enter into an agreement, with a director under section 12.3 of the Act.
(1) Any of the following may, at any time, request an administrative Review of any decision, act or failure to act of a director that Relates to a service to a child, young adult or family under part 2, 2.1, 3 or 4 of the act or to a decision respecting section 75, 76, 77 Or 79 of the act:
(a) The child; (b) The young adult; (c) A parent of the child; (d) The representative for children and youth or a delegate of the Representative for children and youth; (e) Any person representing the child, young adult or parent.
(2) A request for an administrative review (a) Must be made to a director, and (b) May be made in writing, in person, by telephone or by any other means.
(3) A director must ensure that information about the right to request an Administrative review and about the review process is available to Anyone
(a) Who asks the director to provide services under part 2, 2.1, 3 Or 4 of the act, (b) Who is provided with those services, (c) Who exercises a right in relation to section 76, or (d) To whom the director refuses to disclose information under section 77.
[am. b.c. regs. 400/99, s. 5; 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 7; 57/2012, s. 2; 273/2012, ss. 1 and 2 (a).] Decision not to proceed with review 16 (1) A review authority may decide not to proceed with an administrative Review if (a) The review authority considers that the request for review does not Relate to a matter mentioned in section 15 (1), (b) The child or young adult, as applicable, who would be the subject of The review, or the person who requested the review, does not want to Proceed with the review, (c) The director and the person who requested the review agree to an Alternate mechanism for resolving the matter, (d) The director resolves the matter to the satisfaction of the person who Requested the review, (e) The matter is before the court, or (f) The review authority considers that the remedy sought from it would Conflict with an order or decision of the court.
(2) On deciding not to proceed with an administrative review, the review Authority must notify the person who requested the review of the Decision and the reasons.
[am. b.c. regs. 400/99, s. 6; 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 8; 57/2012, s. 3.] How reviews are conducted 17 (1) A review authority (a) Must commence an administrative review as soon as possible after a Request is made, and (b) Must complete the review within 30 days after the request is made, Unless
(i) The review authority decides under section 16 not to proceed with the Review, or (ii) The review authority and the person who requested the review agree to Extend the time limit.
(2) The review authority must make reasonable efforts to determine the Views of (a) The child, if the child is the subject of the review, (a.1) The young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review, (b) The person requesting the administrative review, and (c) The director concerned.
(3) The review authority may seek the views of and information from any Person if the review authority believes it necessary to do so in order To make a decision about the review.
[am. b.c. reg. 57/2012, s. 4.] Factors to be considered 18 In arriving at its decision, a review authority must consider (a) The principles in sections 2 and 3 of the act, (b) The policies and procedures for the administration of the act, and (c) Available resources.
Outcome of review 19 (1) On completing the administrative review, the review authority may Recommend that the director concerned do anything that could legally Have been done in the circumstances under review.
(2) Within 7 days of completing the administrative review, the review Authority must provide a copy of its decision to (a) The person who requested the review, including a child or young adult, (a.1) The child, if the child is the subject of the review and will not be Provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a), unless, in the Opinion of the review authority, it is not in the child's best Interests to provide the child with a copy of the decision, (a.2) The young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review and Will not be provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a), (b) The director, and (c) Any other person the review authority considers necessary to ensure That the act is administered in accordance with the principles in Sections 2 and 3 of the act.
[am. b.c. regs. 57/2012, s. 5; 273/2012, s. 2 (b).] Part 5.1 — reviews relating to services Criteria for when a director must consider conducting a review 19.1 (1) In this section, "critical injury" Means an injury to a child that may (a) Result in the child's death, or (b) Cause serious or long-term impairment of the child's health.
(2) After a director becomes aware of the critical injury or death of a Child, the director must consider conducting a review of that critical Injury or death if (a) The child or the child's family was receiving a service under the act At the time of, or in the year previous to, the critical injury or Death of the child, and (b) In the opinion of the director, the service received, or a policy or Practice relating to the service received, may have significantly Contributed to the critical injury or death of the child.
[en. b.c. reg. 188/2007, s. (a).] Part 6
Repealed
20-24 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 9.] Part 7 — other provisions Definition for disclosure purposes 25 For the purposes of disclosure under section 64 of the act before a Protection hearing, "party to a proceeding" Includes any of the following:
(a) Each parent of the child; (b) A director; (c) In the case of an indigenous child, (i) If the child is a first nation child, a representative of that first Nation,
(ii) If the child is a nisg̱a'a child, a representative of the nisg̱a'a Lisims government, (ii.1) If the child is a treaty first nation child, a representative of the Treaty first nation, and (iii) In any other case, (a) If the child is 12 years of age or older, a representative of an Indigenous community identified by the child, or (b) If the child is under 12 years of age, a representative of an Indigenous community identified by the parents of the child; (d) Any person specified by the court.
[am. b.c. regs. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 4; 36/2009, s. 3; 17/2019, app., S. 10.]
Disclosure of personal information in reports relating to services 25.1 (1) In this section, "third party" Means any person.
(2) For the purposes of releasing a finalized report or part of a Finalized report under section 79 (g.2) of the act, a director must Not disclose personal information in the report or part of the report If the disclosure would be an unreasonable invasion of a third party's Personal privacy under section 22 (2) to (4) of the Freedom of information and protection of privacy act .
[en. b.c. reg. 188/2007, s. (b).] Repealed
26 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 350/2005, sch. 4, s. 10.] Forms
27 The forms in schedule 3 are prescribed for the purposes of the act and This regulation.
Schedule 1
[en. b.c. reg. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 5; am. b.c. regs. 350/2005, sch. 4.
S. 11; 36/2009, s. 4; 53/2011, sch. 2, s. 1; 15/2016, sch. 2, s. 1; 17/2019, app., s. 11.] Column 1
First nation Column 2
Indigenous
Organization
Column 3
Designated representative Adams lake first nation Adams lake first nation First nation social worker Ahousaht first nation Ahousaht first nation First nation manager or family care worker Aitchelitz first nation Aitchelitz first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Alexandria first nation Alexandria first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Alexis creek first nation Alexis creek first nation First nation social worker Ashcroft first nation Ashcroft first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Beecher bay first nation Beecher bay first nation First nation chief or first nation social worker Blueberry river first nation Blueberry river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Bonaparte first nation Bonaparte first nation First nation social worker Boothroyd first nation Boothroyd first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Boston bar first nation Boston bar first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Bridge river first nation Bridge river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Burns lake first nation Burns lake first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Burrard first nation Burrard first nation Social development director Campbell river first nation Campbell river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Canim lake first nation Canim lake first nation First nation social worker Canoe creek first nation Canoe creek first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Cape mudge first nation Cape mudge first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Cayoose creek first nation Cayoose creek first nation First nation social worker Chawathil first nation Chawathil first nation First nation social development worker Cheam first nation Cheam first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Chehalis first nation Chehalis first nation First nation family support worker Chemainus first nation Chemainus first nation First nation social worker Cheslatta carrier first nation Cheslatta carrier first nation First nation social worker Coldwater first nation Coldwater first nation Social services coordinator Columbia lake first nation Columbia lake first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Comox first nation Comox first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Cook's ferry first nation Cook's ferry first nation First nation manager, social development coordinator or equivalent Cowichan first nation Cowichan first nation First nation administrator Da'naxda'xw first nation (aka tanakteuk first nation) Da'naxda'xw first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Dease river first nation Dease river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Ditidaht first nation Ditidaht first nation Social development worker or family care worker Doig river first nation Doig river first nation First nation social worker Douglas first nation Douglas first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Ehattesaht first nation Ehattesaht first nation First nation manager Esketemc first nation (aka alkali lake first nation) Esketemc first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Esquimalt first nation Esquimalt first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Fort nelson first nation Fort nelson first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Fountain first nation (aka xaxli'p nation) Fountain first nation Social development administrator Gitanmaax first nation Gitanmaax first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Gitanyow first nation Gitanyow first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Gitsegukla first nation Gitsegukla first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Gitwangak first nation Gitwangak first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Glen vowell first nation Glen vowell first nation First nation social development officer Gwa'sala-nakwaxda'xw first nation Gwa'sala-nakwaxda'xw first nation First nation social worker Gwawaenuk first nation (aka kwa-wa-aineuk first nation) Gwawaenuk first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Hagwilget village first nation Hagwilget village first nation First nation social worker Halalt first nation Halalt first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Halfway river first nation Halfway river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Hartley bay first nation Hartley bay first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Heiltsuk first nation Heiltsuk first nation First nation social worker or executive director Hesquiaht first nation Hesquiaht first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent High bar first nation High bar first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Homalco first nation Homalco first nation First nation social worker Hupa¢asath first nation (aka opetchesaht first nation) Hupa¢asath first nation First nation office manager Iskut first nation Iskut first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kamloops first nation Kamloops first nation First nation social worker Kanaka bar first nation Kanaka bar first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Katzie first nation Katzie first nation First nation social development worker Kispiox first nation Kispiox first nation First nation social worker Kitamaat village first nation Kitamaat village first nation First nation social development administrator Kitasoo first nation Kitasoo first nation First nation social development worker Kitkatla first nation Kitkatla first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kitselas first nation Kitselas first nation First nation social development officer Kitsumkalum first nation Kitsumkalum first nation First nation social worker Klahoose first nation Klahoose first nation First nation social development worker Kluskus first nation Kluskus first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwadacha first nation (aka fort ware first nation) Kwadacha first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwakiutl first nation Kwakiutl first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwantlen first nation Kwantlen first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwaw-kwaw-apilt first nation Kwaw-kwaw-apilt first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwiakah first nation Kwiakah first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwicksutaineuk-ah-kwaw-ah-mish first nation Kwicksutaineuk-ah-kwaw-ah-mish first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Kwikwetlem first nation (aka coquitlam first nation) Kwikwetlem first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Lake babine first nation Lake babine first nation Lake babine nation chief Lake cowichan first nation Lake cowichan first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Lax-kw' A
Laams first nation Lax-kw' A
Laams first nation First nation administrator Leq'a:mel first nation Leq'a:mel first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Lheidli t'enneh first nation (aka lheit-lit'en first nation) Lheidli t'enneh first nation First nation social development administrator Little shuswap lake first nation Little shuswap lake first nation First nation social worker Lower kootenay first nation Lower kootenay first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Lower nicola first nation Lower nicola first nation First nation administrator Lower similkameen first nation Lower similkameen first nation First nation social worker Lyackson first nation Lyackson first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Lytton first nation Lytton first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Malahat first nation Malahat first nation First nation  manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Mamalilikulla first nation (aka mamaleleqala qwe'qwa'sot'enox first nation) Mamalilikulla first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Matsqui first nation Matsqui first nation Xyolhemeylh portfolio holder Mcleod lake first nation Mcleod lake first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Metlakatla first nation Metlakatla first nation First nation social worker Moricetown first nation Moricetown first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Mount currie first nation Mount currie first nation First nation social development manager Mowachaht/muchalaht first nation Mowachaht/muchalaht first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Musqueam first nation Musqueam first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent N'quatqua first nation (aka anderson lake first nation) N'quatqua first nation First nation social worker Nadleh whut'en first nation Nadleh whut'en first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Nak'azdli first nation Nak'azdli first nation First nation social development director, family care worker or Senior manager 'n A
Mgis first nation 'n A
Mgis first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Nanoose first nation Nanoose first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Nazko first nation Nazko first nation First nation counsellor Nee-tahi-buhn first nation Nee-tahi-buhn first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Neskonlith first nation Neskonlith first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent New westminster first nation New westminster first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Nicomen first nation Nicomen first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Nooaitch first nation Nooaitch first nation First nation social development coordinator North thompson first nation North thompson first nation First nation social worker or first nation manager Nuchatlaht first nation Nuchatlaht first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Nuxalk first nation Nuxalk first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Okanagan first nation Okanagan first nation First nation social services supervisor Old massett village first nation Old massett village first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Oregon jack creek first nation Oregon jack creek first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Osoyoos first nation Osoyoos first nation First nation social services manager Oweekeno first nation Oweekeno first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Pacheedaht first nation Pacheedaht first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Pauquachin first nation Pauquachin first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Pavilion first nation Pavilion first nation First nation social development worker Penelakut first nation Penelakut first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Penticton first nation Penticton first nation First nation manager or first nation social worker Peters first nation Peters first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Popkum first nation Popkum first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Prophet river first nation (aka dene tsaa tse k'nai first nation) Prophet river first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Qualicum first nation Qualicum first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Quatsino first nation Quatsino first nation First nation social worker Red bluff first nation Red bluff first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Saik'uz first nation (aka stoney creek first nation) Saik'uz first nation First nation family care worker Samahquam first nation Samahquam first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Saulteau first nation Saulteau first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Scowlitz first nation Scowlitz first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Seabird island first nation Seabird island first nation First nation manager or community health representative Sechelt first nation Sechelt first nation First nation chief or councillor Semiahmoo first nation Semiahmoo first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Seton lake first nation Seton lake first nation First nation social development worker Shackan first nation Shackan first nation First nation social development coordinator Shuswap first nation Shuswap first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Shxw'ow'hamel first nation (aka ohamil first nation) Shxw'ow'hamel first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Siska first nation Siska first nation First nation manager or first nation social worker Skatin first nation Skatin first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Skawahlook first nation Skawahlook first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Skeetchestn first nation Skeetchestn first nation First nation social worker Skidegate first nation Skidegate first nation First nation social worker Skin tyee first nation Skin tyee first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Skowkale first nation Skowkale first nation First nation chief Skuppah first nation Skuppah first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Skwah first nation Skwah first nation Child and family services portfolio first nation councillor Skway first nation Skway first nation First nation family support worker Snuneymuxw first nation (aka nanaimo first nation) Snuneymuxw first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Soda creek first nation Soda creek first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Songhees first nation Songhees first nation First nation social worker Soowahlie first nation Soowahlie first nation First nation councillor Spallumcheen first nation Spallumcheen first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Spuzzum first nation Spuzzum first nation First nation manager Squamish nation Squamish nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Squiala first nation Squiala first nation First nation chief St. mary's first nation St. mary's first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Stella'ten first nation Stella'ten first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Stone first nation Stone first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Sumas first nation Sumas first nation First nation community development coordinator or education Coordinator
T'sou-ke first nation T'sou-ke first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
T'it'q'et first nation (aka lillooet first nation) T'it'q'et first nation First nation social worker Tahltan first nation Tahltan first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Takla lake first nation Takla lake first nation First nation family care worker Taku river tlingit first nation Taku river tlingit first nation Social program manager Tl'azt'en first nation Tl'azt'en first nation First nation family care worker Tl'etinqox-t'in first nation (aka anaham first nation) Tl'etinqox-t'in first nation First nation child care worker Tla-o-qui-aht first nation Tla-o-qui-aht first nation First nation family care worker or social development worker Tlatlasikwala first nation Tlatlasikwala first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Tlowitsis first nation (aka tlowitsis — mumtagila) Tlowitsis first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Tobacco plains first nation Tobacco plains first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Toosey first nation Toosey first nation First nation social worker Tsartlip first nation Tsartlip first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Tsawataineuk first nation Tsawataineuk first nation First nation social development worker or drug and alcohol Counsellor
Tsawout first nation Tsawout first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Tsay keh dene first nation Tsay keh dene first nation First nation social worker Tseshaht first nation Tseshaht first nation First nation chief executive officer, family support worker, or Social development worker Tseycum first nation Tseycum first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Ts'kw'aylaxw first nation Ts'kw'aylaxw first nation First nation manager, social development officer or equivalent Tzeachten first nation Tzeachten first nation First nation manager Ulkatcho first nation Ulkatcho first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Union bar first nation Union bar first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Upper nicola first nation Upper nicola first nation First nation social worker Upper similkameen first nation Upper similkameen first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
West moberly first nation West moberly first nation First nation social development director Westbank first nation Westbank first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Wet'suwet'en first nation (aka broman lake first nation) Wet'suwet'en first nation First nation social development administrator Whispering pines/clinton first nation Whispering pines/clinton first nation First nation social service worker Williams lake first nation Williams lake first nation First nation social worker Xeni gwet'in first nation (aka nemaiah valley first nation) Xeni gwet'in first nation First nation social worker Yakweakwioose first nation Yakweakwioose first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Yale first nation Yale first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
Yekooche first nation Yekooche first nation First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent
First nations not listed [section 12 (1) (b)] First nation manager, social development officer or Equivalent position Schedule 1a [en. b.c. reg. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 5; am. b.c. reg. 17/2019, app., s.
12.] Nisg̱a'a lisims government ( Section 12 (2)
) Column 1
Director of programs and services Schedule 1b [en. b.c. reg. 36/2009, s. 5; am. b.c. regs. 53/2011, sch. 2, s. 2; 15/2016, sch. 2, s. 2; 17/2019, app., s. 13.] Column 1
Treaty first nation Column 2
Designated representative Huu-ay-aht first nations Director of human services Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/che:k'tles7et'h' first nations Director of community services Tla'amin nation Chief administrative officer Toquaht nation Director of community services Tsawwassen first nation Health and social services manager Uchuklesaht tribe Director of human services Ucluelet first nation Director of community services Schedule 2
[en. b.c. reg. 331/2002, app. 2, s. 5; am. b.c. regs. 350/2005, sch. 4, S. 12; 17/2019, app., s. 14.] Column 1
Indigenous
Community
Column 2
Indigenous
Organization
Column 3
Designated representative The chetwynd and region Indigenous community Tansi friendship centre Executive director of tansi friendship centre The courtenay and region Indigenous community Wachiay friendship centre society Director, wachiay friendship centre society The dawson creek and Region indigenous community Dawson creek aboriginal resources society Or
Nawican friendship centre Program manager of dawson creek Aboriginal resources society Or
Executive director of nawican friendship centre The duncan and region Indigenous community Hi'ye'yu lelum house of friendship Executive director of hi'ye'yu lelum house of friendship The fort nelson and region Indigenous community Fort nelson/liard friendship society Executive director of fort nelson/liard friendship society The fort st. john and region Indigenous community Keeginaw friendship centre Legal information worker of keeginaw friendship centre The kamloops and region Indigenous community Interior indian friendship centre Executive director of interior indian friendship centre The kelowna and region Indigenous community Central okanagan friendship centre society Executive director of central okanagan friendship centre society The lillooet and region Indigenous community Lillooet friendship centre society Executive director of lillooet friendship centre society The merritt and region Indigenous community Conayt friendship centre society Executive director of conayt friendship society The mission and region Indigenous community Mission indian friendship centre Family support worker of mission indian friendship centre The nanaimo and region Indigenous community Tillicum haus society Executive director of tillicum haus society The port alberni and region Indigenous community Port alberni friendship centre Executive director of port alberni friendship centre The prince george and Region indigenous community Prince george friendship centre Executive director of prince george friendship centre The prince rupert and region Indigenous community Friendship house association of prince rupert Executive director of friendship house association of prince Rupert
The quesnel and region Indigenous community Quesnel tillicum society Assistant executive director and referral worker or First nation family support worker of quesnel tillicum society The smithers and region Indigenous community Dzel k'ant indian friendship centre society Executive director of dze k'ant indian friendship centre society The terrace and region Indigenous community Kermode friendship centre Executive director of kermode friendship centre The vancouver and region Indigenous community Vancouver aboriginal Friendship centre society Executive director of vancouver aboriginal friendship centre Society
The vernon and region Indigenous community First nations friendship centre Executive director of first nation friendship centre The victoria and region Indigenous community Victoria native friendship centre Director of social programs, victoria native friendship centre The williams lake and Region indigenous community Cariboo friendship centre Executive director of cariboo friendship centre Metis community Metis commission for children and family services Executive director of metis commission for children and family Services
The kelly lake Indigenous community located South-east of pouce coupe Kelly lake first nations society Chief of kelly lake first nation society Liard river reserve # 3 Located at lower post Liard river reserve # 3 First nation manager Eastern arctic inuit community Nunavut social development council Chairperson of social development council, nunavut social Development council Western arctic inuit community Inuvialuit regional corporation Registrar of enrolment, inuvialuit regional corporation Schedule 3
[am. b.c regs. 171/98, ss. 4 to 6; 400/99, ss. 9 to 11; 350/2005, sch.
4, ss. 13 to 16; 53/2011, sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4; 82/2014, sch. s. 3; 187/2018, app., s. 2; 17/2019, app., s. 1; 149/2019.] Form a Form b Form c Repealed. [b.c. reg. 400/99, s. 11.] Forms d and e Repealed. [b.c. reg. 350/2006, sch. 4, s. 15.] Form f [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Child, family and community service act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 46, s. 103.]