B.c. reg. 242/2021 O.c. 523/2021 Deposited september 13, 2021 Effective september 29, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Vancouver charter City of vancouver council Electronic meetings regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Vancouver charter ; "special council meeting" Means a council meeting other than a regular meeting or an adjourned Meeting.
Electronic regular council meetings 2 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 164.1 [meeting procedures] Of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are Met, regular council meetings may be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a regular council Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, the council must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public (i) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting, and (ii) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the specified place, and a Person designated by the city must be in attendance at the specified Place.
(3) Members of council who are participating in a meeting conducted in Accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the meeting.
Electronic special council meetings 3 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 164.1 of the Act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are met, Special council meetings may be conducted by means of electronic or Other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a special council Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, the council must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting at the specified place, and a person designated by the city Must be in attendance at the specified place.
(3) Members of council who are participating in a meeting conducted in Accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the meeting.
Electronic council committee meetings 4 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 164.1 of the Act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are met, Council committee meetings may be conducted by means of electronic or Other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a council committee Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, the council must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the way in which the meeting is To be conducted by means of electronic or other communication Facilities, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting.
(3) Members of a council committee who are participating in a meeting Conducted in accordance with this section are deemed to be present at The meeting.
Electronic participation by members in council and council committee Meetings
5 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 164.1 of the Act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are met, a Member of council or a council committee who is unable to attend in Person at a regular council meeting, a special council meeting or a Council committee meeting may participate in the meeting by means of Electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to In subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the participation of the member; (c) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Participation of the member.
(3) Members of council or a council committee who are participating under This section in a meeting conducted in accordance with this section Are deemed to be present at the meeting.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Vancouver charter , s.b.c. 1953, c. 55, s. 164.1 (4).]