B.c. reg. 30/78 O.c. 27/78 Filed january 30, 1978 This consolidation is current to december 12, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after december 12, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Commercial transport act Commercial transport regulations [last amended march 30, 2022 by b.c. reg. 76/2022] Division 1 — interpretation Interpretation for regulation 1.01 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
"a dolly" Means a trailer converter dolly that is towed from a single hitch Located on the centre line of the towing vehicle; "a train" Means a combination of vehicles composed of a truck tractor, a Semi-trailer and either (a) An a dolly and a semi-trailer, or (b) A full trailer; "act" Means the Commercial transport act ; "air deflector" Means a device attached to the front of a vehicle designed to reduce Air resistance around the vehicle or load but no part of which is used To carry a load; "anti splash and spray device" Means a device that is attached to a vehicle and is designed to Control or reduce the amount of water thrown up by the moving wheels Of the vehicle; "articulation point" Means
(a) The vertical axis of the kingpin in a fifth wheel coupler and kingpin Assembly,
(b) The vertical axis through the centre of a lunette eye in a pintle hook And lunette eye assembly, or (c) The vertical axis through the centre of rotation of a turntable or Other similar device That allows the vehicles in a combination of vehicles to rotate in the Horizontal plane relative to one another; "automatic axle lift device" Means a device that is designed (a) To lift or otherwise remove the tires of an unloaded trailer's axle From contact with the road surface, and (b) To automatically lower the tires to the road surface if a load is Placed in the trailer; "axle" Means a structure that is wholly in the same or approximately the same Transverse plane and that is supported by wheels on which or with Which it revolves; "axle spread" Means the longitudinal distance between the extreme axle centres of The axle unit; "axle track width" Means the overall width of an axle across the outside faces of the Tires measured at any point above the lowest point of the rim; "axle unit" Means
(a) A single axle, (b) A tandem axle, or (c) A tridem axle; "axle unit weight" Means the weight transmitted to the highway by an axle unit; "b train" Means a combination of vehicles composed of a truck tractor and a Semi-trailer, followed by another semi-trailer attached to the first Semi-trailer by means of a fifth wheel coupler mounted on the first Semi-trailer, within the axle spread of the first semi-trailer or not Located more than 0.3 m behind the centre of the last axle; "bed truck" Means a truck tractor equipped with a cargo carrying deck and a winch That is used for self loading and that is located behind the cab; "box length" Means the longitudinal dimension from the front of the cargo carrying Unit to its rear, exclusive of any extension in the length caused by Auxiliary equipment or machinery at the front that is not designed for The transportation of goods; "c converter dolly" Means a trailer converter dolly that has a rigid frame in the Horizontal plane and is towed from 2 hitches located in a Horizontal transverse line on the towing unit, which preclude any Rotation in the horizontal plane about the hitch points, and that Satisfy all requirements of the canadian motor vehicle safety Standards applicable to such devices; "c dolly" Means a trailer converter dolly which is not an a dolly; "c train" Means a combination of vehicles composed of a truck tractor and a Semi-trailer, followed by another semi-trailer attached to the first Semi-trailer by the means of a c dolly or c converter dolly; "clearance lamp" Means a clearance lamp required under division 4 of the motor vehicle Act regulations, b.c. reg. 26/58; "dangerous goods placard" Means a placard required under the Transport of dangerous goods act Or the Transportation of dangerous goods act (canada) and includes a holder for that placard; "daylight" Means the time between 1/2 hour before sunrise and 1/2 hour after Sunset;
"dog logger" Means a vehicle or device which is attached to the rear of a pole Trailer and shares the load through an articulation point; "drawbar" Means a structural member of a full trailer or trailer converter dolly That includes a device for the purpose of coupling with a trailer Hitch or fifth wheel; "drawbar length" Means the longitudinal distance from the centre of the hole in the Fifth wheel of a converter dolly or turntable center to the center of The hitching device on the towing vehicle; "drive axle" Means an axle that is or may be connected to the power source of a Motor vehicle and transmits tractive power to the wheels; "effective overhang" Means the longitudinal distance from the turn centre of the full Trailer, pony trailer, semi-trailer, truck or intercity bus to the Rearmost point of the vehicle including load; "farm vehicle" Means a commercial vehicle owned and operated by a farmer, rancher or Market gardener, the use of which is confined to purposes connected With the owner's farm, ranch or market garden, including use for Pleasure and is not used in connection with any other business in Which the owner may be engaged; "fifth wheel coupler" Means a device that is mounted on the vehicle chassis and that Consists of a skid plate, associated mounting brackets and latching Mechanism that couples or connects to a kingpin located on the other Vehicle or component; "full trailer" Means a vehicle without motive power that is designed to be towed by Another vehicle and is so designed that the whole of its weight and Load is carried on its own axles and includes a combination consisting Of a semi-trailer and trailer converter dolly; "gross weight, all axles" Means the sum of the individual axle weights of all the axles of a Vehicle or combination of vehicles; "gross weight, group of axles" Means the sum of the gross axle weights of all the axles comprising The group of axles; "gross weight, single axle" Means the gross weight carried by a single axle and transmitted to the Road by the wheels of that axle; "group of axles" Means any 2 or more successive axles on a vehicle or combination of Vehicles;
"highway" Includes every highway within the meaning of the Transportation act , and every road, street, lane or right of way designed or intended For or used by the general public for the passage of vehicles, and Every private place or passageway to which the public, for the purpose Of parking or servicing of vehicles, has access or is invited; "hitch offset" Means the longitudinal distance from the truck or trailer turn centre To the articulation point of the hitch used to tow the following Vehicle;
"horsepower" Means the gross horsepower of the engines of the towing vehicle as Customarily rated by the manufacturer; "interaxle spacing" Means the longitudinal distance separating 2 axle units as determined From the centres of each of the axles that is the closest to the other Axle unit; "intercity bus" Means a vehicle designed to carry more than 15 passengers and equipped With facilities to allow extended travel without stopping; "jeep" Means a semi-trailer that is designed to be attached between a truck Tractor and another semi-trailer, so as to distribute the load of the Other semi-trailer between the axles of the jeep and axles of the Truck tractor; "length (full trailer)" Means the longitudinal dimension from the front of the full trailer to Its rearmost point and does not include the drawbar; "length (pony trailer)" Means the longitudinal dimension from the centre of the hitching Device of the pony trailer to its rearmost point; "lift axle" Means an axle equipped or designed with any device to raise or lock The axle in a raised position; "load securement device" Means
(a) A tie down, binder, lock, chain, cable, belt, rope, winch, cinch, hook Or covering, or (b) A door handle, door lock, door hinge or bunk cable guide required Under division 35 of the motor vehicle act regulations; "logging truck" Means a truck or truck and trailer combination used to haul, in their Natural state, green felled or bucked logs or poles; "lowbed semi-trailer" Means a semi-trailer that has a depressed deck area; "manufacturer" Means
(a) In the case of a vehicle, the company whose name appears on the Statement of compliance and to which a national safety mark has been Issued, and (b) In the case of a tire, the company whose name appears in the side wall Of the tire; "overall length" Means the greatest overall longitudinal dimension of a vehicle or Combination of vehicles including load; "permanently mounted equipment" Means a (a) Heavy duty crane mounted on a truck tractor or truck, (b) Hydraulic or main-engine winch, power-driven off the engine, (c) Chassis-mounted rotating ready-mix concrete drum, (d) Dump box with tilt cylinders or a multi-stage tilt cylinder mounted Behind the cab, (e) Liquid tank if 100% of a liquid tanker straight truck's payload and Capacity consists of a liquid load, or (f) Liquid tank associated with hydro-vac equipment if it is designed and Used to excavate trenches and holes hydraulically and vacuum the Loosened material into the liquid tank, but does not include Conventional vacuum truck equipment; "pole trailer" Means a vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another Vehicle and to be attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach Or pole, or by being boomed to the other vehicle, and which is Ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such As logs, poles, pipes or structural members; "pony trailer" Means a vehicle that is designed to be towed by a truck by means of a Rigidly attached structure and is so designed and used that the Preponderance of its weight and load is carried on one axle unit of The vehicle; "reefer van" Means a trailer or semi-trailer equipped with either a refrigeration Unit or a heating unit or both; "self steering axle" Means an axle on which the wheels turn left and right on one or more Essentially vertical axes but their turning is not controlled by means Of the steering wheel in the operator's compartment; "semi-trailer" Means a vehicle without motive power, designed so that a substantial Part of its weight and load rests on and is carried by the truck, Truck tractor, another semi-trailer or a trailer converter dolly to Which it is attached by a fifth wheel coupler; "single axle" Means one axle or 2 consecutive axles having an axle spread of less Than 1.0 m; "steering axle" Means an axle on which the wheels turn left and right on one or more Essentially vertical axes and their turning is controlled by, and in Direct proportion to, the rotation of the steering wheel in the Operator's compartment; "super single tire" Means a non-steering tire that has a tire width of 445 mm or larger And a bead diameter of 49.5 cm or larger and that meets the Requirements of the motor vehicle tire safety regulations (canada); "tandem axle" Means 2 or more equally spaced consecutive axles, having an axle Spread of not less than 1.0 m nor more than 1.85 m; "tandem drive axle" Means a tandem axle that is connected to the power source of a motor Vehicle and that transmits tractive power to all wheels; "towing dolly" Means a trailer that is designed exclusively to carry one axle of a Motor vehicle for the purpose of towing the motor vehicle behind Another motor vehicle; "trailer converter dolly" Means a vehicle unit which consists of one or more axles, a fifth Wheel and a drawbar, and is used to convert a semi-trailer to a full Trailer;
"trailer wheelbase" Means the longitudinal distance from the centre of the kingpin of a Semi-trailer, or the centre of the turntable of a full trailer, or the Centre of the hitching device on a pony trailer, to the trailer turn Centre;
"tridem axle" Means 3 equally spaced consecutive axles, having an axle spread of not Less than 2.4 m nor more than 3.7 m on tac semi-trailers and trailers Or having an axle spread of not less than 2.4 m nor more than 2.5 m on Tac pony trailers; "tridem drive axle" Means 3 equally spaced consecutive engine-driven axles having an axle Spread of not less than 2.4 m and not more than 2.8 m, and An axle track width of not less than 2.4 m and not more than 2.6 m for axles that are equipped with either dual wheels or Tires, or an axle track width of not less than 2.5 m and not more than 2.6 m for axles that are equipped with super single tires on each Track;
"tridem pole trailer" Means a pole trailer which contains a tridem axle in which all axles Are fixed to a common structure; "tridem tractor" Means a truck tractor that is equipped with single or tandem steering Axles and a tridem drive axle; "truck" Means a motor vehicle, other than a bus, that is either permanently Fitted with special equipment or is designed to and normally used to Carry a load, and that may operate as a single unit or may pull a full Trailer or pony trailer; "truck tractor" Means a motor vehicle, having a net weight of more than 4 000 kg, that Is equipped with a fifth-wheel coupler or a centre rotatable log bunk Mounted on a bolster affixed to the vehicle's chassis, and includes an Auto carrier with an underslung fifth wheel coupler and a truck Tractor with a load box; "truck tractor wheelbase" Means the longitudinal distance from the centre of the front steering Axle to the geometric centre of the drive axle unit; "turn centre" Means the geometric centre of the axle group on a semi-trailer or pony Trailer or the rear axle group on a truck, truck tractor, full trailer Or bus; "vehicle" Means a commercial vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer as defined in the Act;
"width of tire" Means, with respect to rubber tires, the width of the tire as Customarily measured and rated by manufacturers of motor vehicles and Tires and, with respect to metal tires or solid rubber tires, the Transverse width of the outer circumference of the metal tire or solid Rubber tire.
[am. b.c. regs. 2/83, s. 1; 143/84, s. 1; 244/84; 290/86, s. 1; 353/88, sch. 1, s. 1; 416/88; 76/92, s. 1; 454/92, s. 1; 22/94, s. 1; 2/96; 12/97, s. 1; 251/97, s. 1; 267/97, s. 1; 413/97, app. 6, s. 1; 3/98, s. 1; 460/98; 373/99, s. 1; 401/99; 3/2003, s. 1; 546/2004, app.
S. 6; 95/2006, s. 1; 337/2010, sch. 1, s. 1; 76/2022, s. 7.] Definition of "commercial vehicle" in act 1.02 For the purposes of paragraph (b.1) of the definition of "commercial Vehicle" in section 1 of the act, the prescribed class is taxis that, Under licences issued under the Passenger transportation act , are operated as passenger directed vehicles under transportation Network services authorizations only.
[en. b.c. reg. 165/2019.] Division 2 — application Application
2.01 The definitions in section 1 of the act, section 1 of the Motor vehicle act And section 1 of the motor vehicle act regulations apply to these Regulations, but if there is any conflict between those definitions And the definitions under these regulations, the latter shall prevail.
[am. b.c. reg. 353/88, sch. 1, s. 2.] Division 3
Repealed
3.01–3.02 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 280/2006.] Repealed
3.03 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 76/92, s. 2.] Division 4
Repealed
4.01–4.04 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 447/2004, s. 1.] Division 5 — quarterly and short term licences Prohibition — logging trucks 5.01 No person shall drive or operate on a highway a logging truck which Has been licensed under section 5.02 for the transportation of Any commodity other than logs or poles, with or without bark, or Machinery and supplies used in connection with a logging operation.
Logging trucks — quarterly licences 5.02 In the case of a logging truck with a licensed gross vehicle weight Exceeding 20 062 pounds (9 100 kg) the insurance corporation of British columbia may issue a licence for a 3 month period on payment Of
(a) 1/4 of the annual licence fee rounded to the nearest dollar, and any Amount ending in 50¢ shall be raised to the next higher dollar, and Such a licence fee shall be known as a "quarterly licence", (b) The premium payable under the Insurance (vehicle) act , and (c) The proper fee, including the premium payable under the Insurance (vehicle) act , the corporation may renew a licence issued under this section for Any quarter or for the remainder of the licence year.
[am. b.c. regs. 311/96, s. 5; 144/2007.] Duration of licence 5.03 (1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 30/78, s. 5.03 (3).] (2) For the purpose of section 5.02 a 3 month period shall begin on the First day of january, april, july or october and shall end on the last Day of march, june, september or december respectively, and every Quarterly licence shall expire at midnight on the last day of the 3 Month period for which it was issued.
(3) Spent.
[am. b.c. reg. 136/79, s. 3.] Repealed
5.04–5.05 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 143/84, s. 4.] Duration of licence 5.06 The insurance corporation of british columbia may issue a licence for A term of less than 12 months but not less than 3 months for A commercial vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer that may be licensed Under the act and is not (a) Described by section 5.02, (b) Described by section 6 (13) of the act, or (c) A commercial vehicle covered under section 10 of the act.
[en. b.c. reg. 2/92; am. b.c. reg. 311/96, s. 6.] Division 6 — non-resident vehicles Interpretation
6.01 In this division:
"authorized person" Means
(a) The insurance corporation of british columbia, (b) A person who is designated in writing by the corporation by name or Position, or (c) A person who is employed in the ministry of a minister who is Responsible in whole or in part for administration of the act; "interjurisdictional movement" Means, in respect to a commercial vehicle, one or more of the Following:
(a) The delivery of goods or persons from a place outside british columbia To a place in british columbia; (b) The picking up of goods or persons from a place in british columbia For delivery outside british columbia; (c) The transportation of goods or persons through british columbia; "intrajurisdictional movement" Means, in respect to a commercial vehicle, travel within british Columbia, including the picking up and delivery of goods or persons.
[en. b.c. reg. 131/2006.] Non-resident commercial vehicle permit 6.02 (1) An authorized person may issue a permit under this division for a Commercial vehicle registered or licensed outside british columbia (a) On application in the form required by the insurance corporation of British columbia, (b) On receipt of proof of financial responsibility that is satisfactory To the corporation, (c) On payment of the fee referred to in section 6.03, and (d) If the commercial vehicle is required to have a licence or temporary Operating permit under the Passenger transportation act , with the approval of the registrar of passenger transportation Appointed under that act.
(2) If a permit under this division is issued in respect of a commercial Vehicle, the commercial vehicle may be operated for one or more of the Following purposes, as applicable:
(a) Interjurisdictional movement; (b) Intrajurisdictional movement of a commercial vehicle with a licensed Gross vehicle weight of less than 11 794 kg; (b.1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 206/2009, s. 2.] (c) Movement into and within british columbia of a commercial vehicle the Load of which is specialized equipment that is permanently attached to The commercial vehicle or that is intrinsic to the purpose of the Commercial vehicle.
[en. b.c. reg. 131/2006; am. b.c. regs. 313/2008, app. s. 1 (a); 206/2009, ss. 1 (a) and 2.] Calculation of fee for permit 6.03 The fee for a permit under this division is 1/4 of the annual licence Fee prescribed in the commercial transport fees regulation for a Commercial vehicle of like gross vehicle weight, (a) Rounded down to the next lower dollar in the case of an amount of $0.49 or lower, or (b) Rounded up to the next higher dollar in the case of an amount of $0.50 Or higher.
[en. b.c. reg. 131/2006.] Non-resident commercial vehicle permit is temporary 6.04 (1) A permit under this division may be issued only for a 3 month period.
(2) A 3 month period begins on the first day of january, april, july or October and ends on the last day of march, june, september or December, respectively.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 206/2009, s. 2.] [en. b.c. reg. 131/2006; am. b.c. reg. 206/2009, ss. 1 (b) and 2.] No display of permit after expiration 6.05 An operator of a commercial vehicle must not display on a vehicle Operated by the operator a permit issued under the act or this Regulation after the expiration of the term of the permit.
[en. b.c. reg. 131/2006; am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 5.] Division 7 — size and weight Application of division 7.01 (1) Except for section 7.02 (3), this division applies only to (a) Highways in unorganized territory, (b) An arterial highway within the meaning of the Transportation act , and (c) Highways under the jurisdiction of the south coast british columbia Transportation authority.
(2) Except for sections 7.05, 7.06 and 7.08 (6), dimensional requirements Of this division apply only to vehicles with a gross vehicle weight Rating of 6 000 kg or more.
(3) Unless otherwise indicated, this division applies to vehicles with or Without a load.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 67/2021, s. 1.] Permits
7.02 (1) The minister, or any person authorized by the minister, may, by General authority or by the issuance of a permit number or written Permit, authorize the driving or operation on a highway of a Commercial vehicle that does not conform to the weight and dimension Specifications of this division, and the fee for the permit is that Specified in the commercial transport fees regulation.
(2) A person who is issued a permit number under subsection (1) without a Written permit must report to an inspection station to obtain a Written permit at the first opportunity.
(3) The minister or a person authorized by the minister may, by a general Authority or by a written permit, authorize the crossing by a Commercial vehicle of (a) A highway in unorganized territory or an arterial highway in a Municipality, or (b) If an officer of the municipality has given written approval to an Application for crossing, a highway, other than an arterial highway, In the municipality, And the fee must be in accordance with the commercial transport fees Regulation.
(4) Any driver, operator or owner of any vehicle or other person who Violates any of the conditions contained in any permit issued under Subsection (1) or (3) is guilty of an offence and is liable, on Summary conviction, to a fine of not more than $500 or to a term of Imprisonment not exceeding 3 months, or both.
(5) The minister or any person authorized by the minister, or any peace Officer, may amend, vary or rescind permits issued under subsection (1) or (3).
(6) As a prerequisite to the issuance of a permit under subsection (1) or (3), the minister may require the applicant for the permit to deposit With the minister charged with the administration of the Transportation act , or a person acting on that minister's behalf, a sum of money in an Amount sufficient, in the opinion of that minister, to pay the cost of Repairing any damage that may be done to the highway, a public Structure or a bridge by reason of the driving or operation of the Vehicle on the highway, public structure or bridge.
(7) If the term of the permit issued under subsection (1) or (3) extends Beyond a single journey, the applicant must deposit, on account of the Fee prescribed in the commercial transport fees regulation, a sum of Money equal to the estimated charges for the permit.
(8) The fee to be charged for a single trip overload permit under the Commercial transport fees regulation must be based on the total number Of kilometres of operation of the overloaded vehicle during the term Of the permit.
(9) An applicant for an oversize, overload or highway crossing permit may Deposit with the minister, or with a person designated by the Minister, a sum of money considered by the minister to be sufficient To secure the payment of the fees for such permits as may be required By the applicant, and the applicant must pay the permit fee on receipt Of a bill from the ministry.
(10) If an applicant fails to pay the fees charged under subsection (9), The minister, or a person authorized by the minister, may refuse any Further applications for permits, and may cancel any existing permits Until the delinquent fees are paid.
(11) A person must not use a permit for the driving or operation of a Vehicle other than the vehicle for which the permit was issued.
(12) If the term of an overload permit extends beyond a single journey, a Monthly fee must be charged according to the commercial transport fees Regulation.
(13) A permit or permit number issued under the act and these regulations Must be carried in the vehicle at all times when it is operating on a Highway.
(14) No permit is transferable from one vehicle to another, but if a Vehicle has been sold, destroyed or exported from the province, a Substitute permit containing the same conditions as the original Permit may be issued without fee and validated for the term of the Original permit.
(15) Unless expressly permitted by the conditions of a permit, a person Must not drive or operate an oversize vehicle or load on a sunday or a General holiday.
(16) A person must not, without a permit or general authority issued under Subsection (1), drive or operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles On a highway unless the vehicle or combination of vehicles, including Its load, conforms to the weight, configuration, equipment and Dimension specifications of this division, including appendices b, c, D, e, f, g, h and i.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 8.] Scales
7.03 (1) The driver of a vehicle on a highway, when so required by a peace Officer or by any person authorized by the minister, must (a) Stop the vehicle at the time and place specified by the peace officer Or authorized person for the purpose of weighing the whole or part of The vehicle by means of stationary or portable scales, measuring the Dimensions of the vehicle and load, measuring and inspecting the Tires, inspecting the load carried, or for any other purpose under the Act or these regulations, (b) Stop the vehicle if the vehicle or the load it is carrying is, in the Opinion of the peace officer or the inspector, unsafe for operation on The highways and fix the defect in the vehicle or secure the load, as The case may be, before proceeding, (c) Drive the vehicle onto the nearest public stationary or portable Scales for the purpose of weighing the vehicle and load, or (d) Rearrange the load on the vehicle or remove the whole or part of the Load from the vehicle in order to comply with the provisions of the Act, regulations or permit before continuing to drive or operate the Vehicle.
(2) The driver of a vehicle on a highway, when directed by a traffic sign On the highway to report to scales, must drive the vehicle onto the Scales for the purpose of weighing the whole or part of the vehicle by Means of stationary or portable scales, measuring the dimensions of The vehicle and load, measuring and inspecting the tires, inspecting The load carried, or for any other purpose under the act or these Regulations.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to the driver of a commercial vehicle of A licensed gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 500 kg.
(4) If a lease is made under section 13 (4) of the Transportation act , or an agreement entered into under section 66 (3) of the Transportation act , by the minister charged with the administration of the Transportation act , that minister may prescribe in the lease or by separate document Such conditions and requirements in respect of the driving or Operation of vehicles covered by the lease on the highway or highways Covered by the lease as that minister considers necessary.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Application of sections 7.05 to 7.31 7.04 (1) The requirements of this division concerning vehicle weights and Dimensions do not apply to a person who is driving or operating a Commercial vehicle engaged in the construction of, and operating Within the boundaries of, a highway construction project.
(2) Section 7.06 does not apply to a person who is driving or operating (a) An implement of husbandry on a highway during the hours of daylight, Or
(b) A vehicle registered in the name of (i) The ministry of the minister charged with the administration of the Transportation act , or (ii) A municipality And that is operated for the purposes of road maintenance or snow Removal.
(3) If the overall width of an implement of husbandry for which a person Is exempted under subsection (2) (a) is 3.7 m or more, a sign as Described in section 8.03 must be mounted on the front and a flag as Described in section 8.05 must be mounted on each of the 4 corners of The implement of husbandry.
(4) Sections 7.15 to 7.17 and 7.20 and appendices b to i do not apply to Vehicles being operated by (a) The ministry of the minister charged with the administration of the Transportation act , or (b) A municipality While the vehicle is operated for the distribution of material on the Highway for the purpose of improving traction and is (c) Travelling to the place on the highway where distribution of the Material carried by the vehicle begins, or (d) Distributing the material on the highway.
(5) Despite any other provision of these regulations or of a permit issued Under these regulations, the maximum height, length or width of a Vehicle or vehicle and load allowable on a highway or portion of a Highway is the maximum indicated by a sign posted under section 66 of The
Transportation act .
(6) A person must not, without a permit issued under the act and Regulations, drive or operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles Over a bridge if the gross weight on an axle or group of axles or the Gross vehicle weight is in excess of a load limit posted on or Adjacent to that bridge by the minister charged with the Administration of the Transportation act .
(7) A bridge load limit for tridem axles posted on or adjacent to a bridge By the minister charged with the administration of the Transportation act Applies also to any group of 3 axles having a spread of 3.7 m or less.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Vehicle height 7.05 (1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a vehicle having A height in excess of 4.15 m.
(2) Despite subsection (1), if a vehicle is equipped at the top with a Tarp system with roll-up tarp backstops consisting of short, Non-retractable metal straps which extend upwards to secure the Roll-up tarp, the overall height of the vehicle, including the Backstops, must not exceed 4.3 m, and the overall height of the load Must not exceed 4.15 m.
(3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), a person must not, without a permit, Drive or operate a vehicle on a highway if the overall height of the Vehicle is greater than the height limit indicated on a low clearance Warning sign posted on the highway.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Vehicle width 7.06 A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Vehicle having a total outside width in excess of 2.6 m, but not Including the following as part of that width:
(a) Loose hay, straw or fodder projecting over the sides of the vehicle to A total outside width not in excess of 3.1 m; (b) One or more mirrors, fitted for the purpose of conforming to the Requirements of the motor vehicle act regulations, which do not extend More than 30 cm on each side beyond the total width of vehicle and Load otherwise permitted by this section; (c) Auxiliary equipment or devices that are not designed or used to carry Cargo and do not extend more than 10 cm on each side beyond the total Width of vehicle and load otherwise permitted by this section, Including, but not limited to, anti-splash and spray devices, load Securement devices, ladders, glad hands, air connectors, electrical Connectors, hydraulic connectors, clearance lamps and dangerous goods Placards;
(d) 445-mm-wide tires, fitted to the steering axles of a truck or truck Tractor manufactured before january 1, 2005, that extend up to a Maximum of 10 cm on either side of the vehicle beyond the maximum Vehicle width of 2.6 m.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 128/2008, s. 1.] Trailer axle track widths 7.07 (1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a semi-trailer, Pony trailer, or full trailer unless (a) If the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer was manufactured After august 31, 1988 and before january 1, 1994 and is not equipped With super single tires, the axle track width of each single axle, Each tandem axle and each tridem axle is (i) If the width of the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer body is 2.5 m or more, not less than 2.5 m nor more than 2.6 m, and (ii) If the width of the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer body is Less than 2.5 m, not less than 2.4 m, (b) If the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer was manufactured After december 31, 1993 and is not equipped with super single tires, The axle track width of each single axle, each tandem axle and each Tridem axle is not less than 2.5 m and not more than 2.6 m, (c) If the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer was manufactured Before january 1, 2010 and is equipped with super single tires, the Axle track width of each single axle, each tandem axle and each tridem Axle is not less than 2.3 m and not more than 2.6 m, and (d) If the semi-trailer, pony trailer or full trailer was manufactured After december 31, 2009 and is equipped with super single tires, the Axle track width of each single axle, each tandem axle and each tridem Axle is not less than 2.5 m and not more than 2.6 m.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to container chassis trailers used Exclusively in the transportation of multi-modal shipping containers.
(3) All axles on a trailer must be of equal width.
(4) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a tridem drive Truck or tridem drive truck tractor with an axle track width of less Than 2.5 m or greater than 2.6 m unless (a) The tridem drive truck tractor was manufactured, or converted from a Motor vehicle that was manufactured, before august 1, 1997 and has an Axle track width that is not less than 2.4 m and not more than 2.6 m, Or
(b) The tridem drive truck was manufactured, or converted from a motor Vehicle that was manufactured, before july 1, 2012 and has an axle Track width that is not less than 2.4 m and not more than 2.6 m.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 128/2008, s. 2; 337/2010, Sch. 1, s. 2; 127/2011, s. 1; 156/2011.] Vehicle length 7.08 (1) Subject to subsections (2) to (5), a person must not drive or operate A vehicle or vehicle combination unless it conforms to the vehicle Dimensions specified for that vehicle or vehicle combination in Appendix b, c, d, e, f, g, h or i to these regulations.
(2) A vehicle's overall length is to be determined for the purposes of Subsection (1) without including the following as part of that length:
(a) An air deflector, heater or refrigerator unit attached to the front of The vehicle; (b) The draw bar of a full trailer if the draw bar articulates in the Horizontal plane relative to the main load-carrying structural Component of the trailer; (c) Auxiliary equipment or devices that are not designed or used to carry Cargo and do not extend more than 30 cm beyond the front or 10 cm Beyond the rear of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, air Connectors, electrical connectors, hydraulic connectors, rollers, Pickup plates, bumpers, ladders, glad hands, load securement devices Or dangerous goods placards; (d) A platform mounted on the front upper portion of a trailer to a Maximum horizontal length of 1 m, if the platform is used exclusively To assist in the installation or securing or both of load securement Devices;
(e) The following portions of an aerodynamic device that is not designed Or used to carry cargo, is installed at the rear of a truck, trailer Or semi-trailer and is capable of being folded to within 30.5 cm of The rear of the vehicle:
(i) Any portion of the device more than 1.9 m above the ground that does Not protrude more than 1.52 m beyond the rear of the vehicle; (ii) Any portion of the device within 1.9 m of the ground that does not Protrude beyond a transverse plane that (a) Starts from the rear bottom edge of the rear impact guard of the Vehicle or, if there is no rear impact guard, the lowest point at the Rear of the vehicle, and (b) Intersects a point that is 1.74 m above the ground and 1.21 m behind The rear of the vehicle.
(3) A bus, including a bus converted into a motor home, may have an Overall length, including all ancillary equipment, of (a) 12.5 m for a two-axle bus, and (b) 14 m for a three-axle-bus.
(4) Despite subsection (3), a bus may have an overall length of up to 20 m If
(a) It has an articulation point between the passenger carrying sections Of the bus, (b) The distance from the articulation point to the front or rear of the Bus does not exceed 12.5 m, and (c) Movement of passengers between the articulated sections of the bus is Possible at all times while the bus is being operated on a highway.
(5) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a vehicle Combination, including an under-slung fifth wheel semi-trailer, with a Length of more than 14.65 m, as measured from the kingpin to the Rearmost point of the trailer.
(6) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), a single vehicle having an Overall length in excess of 12.5 m, (b) A trailer having an overall length in excess of 12.5 m, but not Including the following as part of that length:
(i) An air deflector, heater or refrigerator unit attached to the front of The trailer; (ii) The draw bar of the trailer if the draw bar articulates in the Horizontal plane relative to the main load-carrying structural Component of the trailer; (iii) Auxiliary equipment or devices that are not designed or used to carry Cargo and do not extend more than 30 cm beyond the front or 10 cm Beyond the rear of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, air Connectors, electrical connectors, hydraulic connectors, rollers, Pickup plates, bumpers, ladders, glad hands, load securement devices Or dangerous goods placards; (iv) A platform mounted on the front upper portion of the trailer if the Platform is used exclusively to assist in the installation or securing Or both of load securement devices, (c) Subject to section 7.27 (1), a combination of 2 or more vehicles (i) If the combination contains one articulation point, having an overall Length, including its load, in excess of 20 m, and (ii) If the combination contains more than one articulation point, having An overall length, including its load, in excess of 23 m, (d) A vehicle combination consisting of a jeep and low-bed semi-trailer as Allowed by section 7.22 if the combination has an overall length in Excess of 23 m, or (e) A combination of vehicles that contains a licensed booster axle Assembly mounted to the rear of a semi-trailer lowbed and has an Overall length that exceeds 23.0 m.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 128/2008, s. 3; 205/2016, S. 1.]
Load sharing 7.09 A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a combination of Vehicles if the load is supported by more than one vehicle in Combination except (a) A logging truck in combination with a pole trailer equipped with a Compensating reach, or (b) If the load is supported at an articulation point by a fifth wheel Coupler and kingpin, a pintle hook and lunette eye assembly or a Turntable.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Axle units 7.10 A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Truck tractor in combination with (a) A semi-trailer on which more than one axle unit is in contact with the Ground, or (b) A trailer converter dolly equipped with tridem axle unit.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Lift axles 7.11 (1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Vehicle or a combination of vehicles in which a control is provided For varying the weight on an axle or group of axles, unless (a) The control locks or unlocks a sliding fifth wheel coupler, (b) The vehicle is a ready mix concrete truck and the control is manually Operated and located outside the driver compartment and immediately Adjacent to the axle or group of axles being affected, or (c) The control is an automatic axle lift device that (i) Was installed on the trailer by (a) The original trailer manufacturer, or (b) An installer working under the supervision of, and according to an Installation plan developed by, a professional engineer, and (ii) Is equipped with tamper-resistant features to prevent unintended field Adjustments,
And the trailer on which it is installed (iii) Has affixed on each side, near the affected axles, a unique logo Indicating that an automatic axle lift device is installed on the Trailer, and (iv) Is equipped with an on/off control to operate the automatic axle lift Device and with a status light visible from the cab to indicate to the Driver when the device is activated.
(2) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a vehicle or Vehicle combination with lift axles in contact with the ground if the Vehicle is (a) Not also equipped with an automatic lift axle that meets the Requirements set out in subsection (1) (c) (i) and (ii), or (b) A pole trailer.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 97/2009, s. (a).] Self steering axles 7.12 A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Vehicle or a vehicle combination equipped with a self steering axle if The tires of the self steering axle are in contact with the ground, Unless the vehicle or one vehicle in the vehicle combination is (a) A tandem drive ready-mix concrete truck equipped with a self steering Booster axle, or (b) A jeep, an a or c converter dolly or a full trailer, and the jeep, Dolly or trailer is equipped with a self steering axle in the front Axle group.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Licensed gvw 7.13 The maximum licensed gross vehicle weight of a vehicle or combination Of vehicles must not exceed 63 500 kg.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Overload
7.14 (1) For the purpose of issuing overload permits, "overload" Means
(a) Any positive weight difference between (i) The axle weight and the maximum axle unit weight or the maximum gross Weight for a group of axles allowed under these regulations, (ii) The gross vehicle weight and the gross vehicle weight allowed for the Particular vehicle or vehicle combination under these regulations, (iii) The gross vehicle weight and the licensed gross vehicle weight, or (iv) The axle or gross vehicle weight and the maximum axle or gross vehicle Weight as posted on a highway sign, or (b) The total weight of any axle unit or group of axles, beyond 27.5 m Overall length, of an empty (no load) vehicle combination.
(2) Subject to sections 7.04 (6) and 7.13, a person must not, without a Permit, drive or operate on a highway a vehicle or a combination of Vehicles if the gross weight of the vehicle or combination of vehicles Exceeds 63 500 kg.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Maximum gross weight for tires 7.15 A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway a vehicle loaded or configured so that the gross weight on a Tire exceeds either (a) The manufacturer's rated capacity for the tire, or (b) The tire load specified for that vehicle or vehicle combination in Appendix b, c, d, e, f, g, h or i.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Maximum gross weight for axles 7.16 (1) A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway a vehicle loaded or configured so that (a) The gross weight on an axle exceeds the manufacturer's rated capacity For that axle or for the brake or suspension system with which the Axle is equipped, (b) The gross weight on an axle exceeds 9 100 kg, (c) The gross weight on any one axle of a tridem or tandem axle group Exceeds 9 100 kg, (d) The axle weight difference between adjacent axles exceeds 1 000 kg, (e) Except in the case of a tridem pole trailer, the gross weight on any Two adjacent axles in a tridem axle group exceeds 17 000 kg, (f) The gross weight on the steering axle of an all-wheel-drive three axle Truck tractor exceeds 7 500 kg, or (g) The sum of the axle loads on the drive axles and jeep axle in a tandem Drive truck tractor in combination with a single axle jeep and lowbed Semi-trailer exceeds the greater of 24 000 kg or the weight allowed Under the table in section 7.17.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a vehicle described in section 19.11 (3) or (4) of the motor vehicle act regulations, b.c. reg. 26/58.
(3) Despite anything in an overload permit, if a posted sign on a highway Restricts vehicles by weight, the posted restriction applies.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Maximum gross weight for axle groups 7.17 (1) This section does not apply to drivers or operators of vehicles Described in appendices c, d and g.
(2) A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway a vehicle or combination of vehicles having a group of axles Within a spacing of 8 m or less if the group of axles carries, along Any 8 m axle length, the gross weight indicated in column 2 of the Table opposite the distance between the centres of the first and last Axle of the group indicated in column 1:
Column 1
Column 2
Distance between the centres of The first axle and last axle of any Group of axles of a vehicle or Combination of vehicles Maximum
Gross weight, Group of axles Less than 1.00 m 9 100 kg 1.00 m Up to but not including 1.20 m 16 500 kg 1.20 m " 1.90 m 17 000 kg 1.90 m " 2.30 m 18 000 kg 2.30 m " 2.60 m 19 000 kg 2.60 m " 3.00 m 20 000 kg 3.00 m " 3.40 m 21 000 kg 3.40 m " 3.80 m 22 000 kg 3.80 m " 4.20 m 23 000 kg 4.20 m " 4.60 m 24 000 kg 4.60 m " 5.00 m 25 000 kg 5.00 m " 5.30 m 26 000 kg 5.30 m " 5.70 m 27 000 kg 5.70 m " 6.10 m 28 000 kg 6.10 m " 6.50 m 29 000 kg 6.50 m " 6.90 m 30 000 kg 6.90 m " 7.20 m 31 000 kg 7.20 m " 7.60 m 32 000 kg 7.60 m " 8.00 m 33 000 kg 8.00 m " 34 000 kg [en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Three-vehicle combination 7.18 (1) A person must not drive or operate on a highway a 3-vehicle Combination of vehicles (a) Consisting, in part, of a semi-trailer and pony trailer, or (b) Having a gross combined weight less than 11 000 kg.
(2) Despite subsection (1), a person may, without a permit, drive or Operate on a highway a 3-vehicle combination of vehicles if the Combination consists of (a) Motor vehicle, (b) A towing dolly, and (c) A licensed motor vehicle, one axle of which is carried by the towing Dolly.
(3) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a 3-vehicle Combination consisting of a truck and 2 trailers, or a logging truck Combination that includes 2-pole trailers.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Towing dollies 7.19 A person must not drive or operate on a highway a commercial vehicle That is towing a towing dolly if the net weight of the towing dolly Plus the gross weight of a motor vehicle, one axle of which is being Carried by the towing dolly, exceeds 2 800 kg.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Drive axle 7.20 A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway
(a) A vehicle or combination of vehicles having a gross weight on the Drive axle that is less than 20% of the gross vehicle weight, or (b) A combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 38 000 kg unless the towing vehicle has a tandem or tridem drive axle.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 337/2010, sch. 1, s. 3.] Weight to horsepower 7.21 A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway a combination of vehicles unless the gross vehicle weight to The manufacturer's rated horsepower of the towing vehicle bears a Relationship of not more than 150 kg to one horsepower.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Single axle jeep with lowbed semi-trailer 7.22 Despite any other provision of these regulations, a person may, Without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a combination of Vehicles consisting of a tandem drive axle truck tractor, a single Axle jeep and a lowbed semi-trailer if (a) The interaxle spacing between the tandem drive axle and the jeep Single axle is not less than 1.2 m nor more than 3.5 m, and (b) The vehicles are (i) Unladen, or (ii) Being used to haul a bundle, in their natural state, of green felled Or bucked logs or poles.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Truck prohibitions 7.23 (1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a tridem-drive Truck or truck tractor equipped with a booster or jeep axle, unless The jeep axle is unladen and the jeep is licensed under the Motor vehicle act .
(2) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a vehicle or Vehicle combination unless the vehicle's or the vehicle combination's Weights conform to those shown for that vehicle or vehicle combination In appendices b to i to these regulations.
(3) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway (a) A tridem tractor in any vehicle combination, (b) A tridem drive straight truck, or (c) A tridem drive truck in combination with a trailer Unless all of the following conditions apply:
(d) No device is present which allows the driver to transfer or shift axle Weight within any tridem axle group in the combination; (e) All tires in the tridem drive axles are in contact with the road Surface;
(f) An individual axle has a common type of suspension within the tridem Drive axle group; (g) The control for the tridem tractor's drive axles differential lock-up Mechanism is accessible by the driver from inside the cab, and the Differentials remain unlocked at all times while the tractor is Operated on a highway; (h) A warning label is visible to the driver stating that "during tight Cornering, all differentials of the tridem drive axle group must be Unlocked".
(i) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 2.] [en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 337/2010, sch. 1, s. 4; 127/2011, s. 2.] Spread tandem axles 7.24 Despite appendix a, a person may, without a permit, operate the Semi-trailer of a 2-vehicle combination with a spread tandem axle, if The interaxle spacing between the 2 non-steering axles exceeds 185 cm But does not exceed 307 cm, provided that the sum of the axle weight For both axles does not exceed 9 100 kg.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Super single tires 7.25 A person must not, without a permit, use super single tires, unless (a) The super single tires (i) Are used on a single, tandem or tridem axle group, (ii) Do not support, except on the steering axle, more than 3 850 kg each, And
(iii) Are on the last axle group, if the super single tires are used on a Vehicle combination with a tandem or tridem axle group, and (b) Subject to section 7.07 (1) (c), the axles on which the super single Tires are installed (i) Have a minimum axle track width of 2.5 m, (ii) Do not have dual wheels or single tires installed on them, and (iii) Do not support more than 7 700 kg each.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 337/2010, sch. 1, s. 5.] Vehicle, axle and tire loads for logging trucks 7.26 (1) Subject to subsections (1.1) and (2), a person may drive or operate on A highway a logging truck that exceeds the gross weights referred to In this division, including those referred to in the appendices, if The amount of excessive gross weight does not exceed the following Amounts:
(a) During the period between march 2 and november 30 of a calendar year (i) For a single axle, 500 kg, not including the steering axle of a Logging truck or a truck tractor, (ii) For a tandem axle, triaxle, tridem axle or tridem drive axle, 1 100 Kg, or (iii) For a combination of vehicles, 1 500 kg; (b) During the period between december 1 of a calendar year and march 1 in The next calendar year (i) For a single axle, 500 kg, not including the steering axle of a Logging truck or a truck tractor, (ii) For a tandem axle, triaxle, tridem axle or tridem drive axle, 1 500 Kg, or (iii) For a combination of vehicles, 2 500 kg.
(1.1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Logging truck if the gross vehicle weight of the truck exceeds 63 500 Kg.
(2) Despite the limitations set out in the appendices and subject to the Manufacturer's rated capacity for the tire, a logging truck in Combination with a pole trailer used to haul long logs may have a tire Loading of 110 kg per 1.0 cm of tire width.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 337/2010, sch. 1, s. 6.] Logging truck length 7.27 (1) A logging truck 2-vehicle combination that has a single articulation Point and is carrying a load of logs, wood poles or wood pilings may Have an overall length, including its load, of up to 21.5 m, but only If the length of the load cannot be reduced without cutting the wood.
(2) A logging truck combination that has more than one articulation point May have an overall length, including its load, of up to 23.0 m.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Logging truck kingpin setback and front and rear projections 7.28 (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), a person must not, without a Permit, drive or operate a combination of vehicles in which the Distance from the front-most vehicle articulation point to the extreme Rear of the vehicle combination exceeds 18.0 m, but not including as Part of that distance anything described in section 7.08 (6) (b) (i), (iii) or (iv).
(2) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Pole trailer in combination with one other vehicle if the combination Of vehicles is carrying a load that projects forward of the vertical Axis of rotation of the forward bunk by a radius of more than 3.0 m.
(3) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Vehicle combination consisting of a logging truck tractor and pole Trailer if the combination has a rear projection from the centre of The last rotatable log bunk to the rear-most part of the vehicle Combination or load that exceeds 5.0 m.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Axle groups 7.29 (1) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Vehicle or combination of vehicles which has 2 or 3 consecutive axles In contact with the ground, if those axles are not a tandem or tridem Axle, unless the first or last axle is a self steering axle on a Trailer.
(2) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a tridem pole Trailer or tridem tractor in combination with a jeep or dog logger When the vehicle combination is loaded.
(3) A person must not, without a permit, drive a logging truck if the Truck's interaxle spacing between 2 steering axles exceeds 185 cm.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Logging truck tire loads 7.30 A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Logging truck loaded so that the gross weight on a tire exceeds (a) 110 kg per 1.0 cm of tire width in the case of pneumatic tires, or (b) 55 kg per 1.0 cm of tire width in the case of metal or solid rubber Tires.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3.] Maximum axle load and spacing 7.31 (1) A person must not, without an overload permit, drive or operate on a Highway
(a) A loaded logging truck combination, if an axle carries a gross weight In excess of 9 100 kg and the logging truck combination has a group of Axles within a spacing of 8 m or less and the group of axles carries The gross weight indicated in column 2 of the table in section 7.17 Opposite the distance between the centres of the first and last axle Of the group as indicated in column 1 of that table, (b) A 3-vehicle combination of vehicles if (i) The combination consists, in part, of a truck tractor, and (ii) A single steering axle on the truck tractor carries a gross weight in Excess of 6 000 kg, Unless the combination consists, in part, of a truck or truck tractor That is equipped with a log self-loader, in which case the maximum Steering axle load is 9 100 kg, and (c) A 3-vehicle combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight in Excess of 57 000 kg unless (i) The power unit is a truck tractor, and (ii) The kingpin of the first semi-trailer is positioned at, or forward of, A point midway between the centre of the 2 rearmost axles of the truck Tractor.
(2) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate a logging truck Combination which includes a tridem pole trailer if (a) A tandem axle exceeds 17 000 kg in weight, or (b) A tridem axle exceeds 25 000 kg in weight.
(3) A person must not, without a permit, drive or operate on a highway a Tridem-drive tractor logging truck unless the vehicle weights and Dimensions comply with the description for that vehicle configuration In the appendices.
[en. b.c. reg. 95/2006, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 67/2021, s. 2.] Appendices a to k Appendix a [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix b [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix c [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix d [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix e [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix f [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix g [en. b.c. reg. 205/2016, s. 2.] Appendix h [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendix i [en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 3.] Appendices j and k Repealed. [b.c. reg. 3/2003, s. 25.] Division 8 — pilot cars and signs Compliance with standards 8.01 Where conditions of an oversize or overload permit prescribe that Pilot cars, signs, flags or lights be provided by the permittee, the Standards for equipment as set forth in this division shall be Complied with, unless otherwise prescribed by the conditions of the Permit.
Allowable vehicle 8.02 A pilot car must be a single motor vehicle.
[en. b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 4.] Oversize/load vehicle sign 8.03 (1) Where an oversize or overload permit requires that a sign be provided On the vehicle or load, the operator of the oversize or overload Vehicle shall ensure that the sign either (a) Be a panel that (i) Is 150 cm x 30 cm in size, (ii) Has black lettering on a yellow background, (iii) Has letters of 20 cm in height and 3 cm stroke, and (iv) Contains only the words "wide load" or in the case of overlength Vehicles "long load" or "oversize load", or (b) Be depicted in accordance with table 2.
(2) In the case of mobile homes and modular buildings that exceed 3.5 m in Width, in addition to the requirements of subsection (1), the operator Of the oversize vehicle shall ensure that there is displayed on the Rear of the mobile home or modular building at the time of transport a Sign that:
(a) Has yellow background with lettering of red reflective material; (b) Has letters of not less than 15 cm in height and 3 cm stroke; (c) Contains the words "caution — may slow or stop unexpectedly".
Table 2
Notes: 1.
All dimensions are shown in centimetres.
2.
Shaded areas are red.
3.
Unshaded areas are white.
4.
Both colours are made reflective with retro-reflective sheeting That meets the Requirements of the canadian standards board:
—cgsb standard 62-gp-11m —class 1 or class 2 —level 2 —red —white 5.
The letter "d" shall be 20 cm in height and have a nominal 3 cm stroke.
[en. b.c. reg. 143/84, s. 17; am. b.c. reg. 76/92, s. 14.] Pilot car 8.04 (1) Every operator of a pilot car shall ensure that the pilot car is (a) While escorting a vehicle and load, equipped with a roof mounted "long Load", "wide load", "oversize load" or "d" sign that complies with Subsections (2) to (4), (b) While escorting a vehicle or a vehicle and load in excess of 27.5 m in Length and less than 3.2 m in width, equipped with a roof mounted "long load", "oversize load" or "d" sign that complies with Subsections (2) to (4), and (c) While escorting a vehicle or a vehicle and load in excess of 3.2 m in Width, equipped with a roof mounted "wide load", "oversize load" or "d" sign that complies with subsections (2) to (4).
(2) The sign referred to in subsection (1) shall (a) Have a box, made from mild steel, stainless steel or aluminum, that (i) Is 180 cm x 35 cm x 10 cm, (ii) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 127/2011, s. 5 (b).] (iii) Has an interior coated with a white reflective material, (iv) Has 8 lamps mounted in it and spaced so as to give even lighting of The sign background, and (v) Shelters all wire connectors, switches, flashers and similar wiring Components for the lighting attached to it, and (b) Be double faced on 3 mm plexiglas background that (i) In the case of a "wide load", "long load" or "oversize load" sign, has A yellow background and black lettering of 28 cm in height and 4 cm Stroke, or 20 cm in height and c series lettering, as set out under The us federal highway administration manual on uniform traffic Control devices, as amended from time to time, and (ii) In the case of a "d" sign, is depicted as set out in table 3.
(3) The lamps referred to in subsection (2) (a) (iv) shall have a rating Of 12.5 volts, minimum 5 candela, and design amps 3.
(4) The sign box referred to in subsection (2) shall (a) Have mounted on it 2 amber lamps (one at each end) that (i) Are at least 17.75 cm in diameter, and (ii) Meet sae standard j595, class 2 yellow, or (a.1) Include the mounting of 2 standard 203 mm rotating amber or strobe Lights (one at each end with 2 sealed beam units per lamp) on the Pilot car sign, and (b) Be designed to mount on car-top carriers or equal mountings, and (c) Have an upright position and folded horizontal position.
Table 3
Notes: 1.
All dimensions are shown in centimetres.
2.
Shaded areas are red.
3.
Unshaded areas are white.
4.
The letter "d" shall be 20 cm in height and have a nominal 3 cm Stroke or e series lettering, as set out under the us federal Highway administration manual on uniform traffic control Devices, as amended from time to time.
[en. b.c. reg. 143/84, s. 17; am. b.c. regs. 76/92, s. 15; 127/2011, Ss. 5 and 6.] Flags — oversize vehicle or load 8.05 Flags on an oversize vehicle or load shall (a) Be red, (b) Be mounted on all 4 corners or projections of the vehicle or load, and (c) Either be a minimum size of 30 cm square, or be in strips that are not More than 3 cm in width, not less than 45 cm in length and That cover an overall width of not less than 15 cm.
[en. b.c. reg. 353/88, sch. 1, s. 8.] Lighting — oversize vehicle/load 8.06 If night travel of oversize vehicles or loads is authorized by permit, The extremities of the oversize vehicle or load shall be lighted in a Manner not inconsistent with the provisions of division 4 of the Regulations made pursuant to the Motor vehicle act .
Oversize sign use prohibition 8.07 No person shall drive or operate on a highway a motor vehicle or a Commercial vehicle displaying a sign indicating the presence of an Oversize vehicle or load when, in fact, an oversize vehicle or load is Not being transported or escorted.
Pilot car escort — proximity 8.08 (1) A pilot car when escorting an oversize vehicle or load on a 2 lane or 3 lane highway shall precede the oversize vehicle or load at a Distance of not less than 100 m nor more than 500 m.
(2) When escorting an oversize vehicle or load on a 4 lane or divided Highway, the pilot car shall follow the oversize vehicle or load at a Distance of not less than 100 m nor more than 500 m.
(3) Despite subsection (1), on 2, 3 or 4 lane highways a pilot car Required for escorting (a) Overlength vehicles, and (b) Loads in excess of 27.5 m in length And not exceeding 3.2 m in width shall travel to the rear of the Escorted vehicle.
[en. b.c. reg. 76/92, s. 16.] Proximity exception 8.09 Notwithstanding section 8.08, a lead pilot car shall when necessary Precede the oversize vehicle or load through tunnels, structures, Etc., at an adequate distance so as to provide ample warning for Oncoming vehicles.
Repealed
8.10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 22/94, s. 7.] Offence
8.11 Every person who drives or operates a pilot car in contravention of The provisions of these regulations is guilty of an offence.
Division 9 — prorationing and reciprocity Prorationing and reciprocity 9.01 "administrator" , for the purpose of administering prorationing and reciprocity Agreements, means the insurance corporation of british columbia.
[en. b.c. reg. 311/96, s. 8.] Fees
9.02 Fees charged for vehicles licensed under the international Registration plan shall be those prescribed in the commercial Transport fees regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 513/81, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 528/95, s. 3; 341/2004, s.
2; 313/2008, app. s. 1 (b).] Repealed
9.03 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 513/81, s.3.] Division 10
Repealed
10.01 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 454/92, s. 15.] Division 11 — penalties Penalties
11.01 (1) Every person who drives or operates an overloaded vehicle is liable to A fine of not less than $100 and, in addition, to a penalty of $10 per 100 kg, or part of it, of the gross weight in excess of that Allowed by the regulations or a permit.
(2) No person shall drive or operate a vehicle on a highway in Contravention of a permit issued under this regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 2/83, s. 8; am. b.c. regs. 143/84, s. 19; 186/93.] Repealed
11.02– 11.05 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 242/83.] Division 12 — agreements Agreements
12.01 The minister may, when it is in the public interest, enter into Agreements exempting in whole, or in part, commercial vehicles from The provisions of the act or regulations, or from the fees prescribed Therein or herein, and may under the terms of agreement prescribe Conditions for the operation of such commercial vehicles on designated Highways.
[am. b.c. regs. 147/91; 22/94, s. 8.] Repealed
12.02 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 143/84, s. 20.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Commercial transport act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 58, s. 11.]