B.c. reg. 91/2016 O.c. 226/2016 Deposited april 15, 2016 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Community charter; greater vancouver sewerage and drainage district Act; greater vancouver water district act; islands trust act Conflict of interest exceptions regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Community charter ; "council representative" Means a member of a municipal council appointed by that council to the Board of an entity; "entity" Means any of the following:
(a) A society or extraprovincial society; (b) A corporation, other than a society or extraprovincial society, Incorporated by a public authority, that provides a service to the Following:
(i) A municipality of which a council member is appointed to the board of The corporation; (ii) A regional district of which a regional district director is appointed To the board of the corporation; (iii) A greater board of which a board member is appointed to the board of The corporation; (iv) The islands trust of which an islands trust trustee is appointed to The board of the corporation; "extraprovincial society" Has the same meaning as in the Society act ; "governing body" Means any of the following:
(a) The council of a municipality; (b) The board of a regional district; (c) The board of a greater board; (d) The trust council; "greater board representative" Means a member of a board of a greater board appointed by that board To the board of an entity; "islands trust representative" Means an islands trust trustee appointed by the trust council to the Board of an entity; "islands trust trustee" Means a local trustee or a municipal trustee within the meaning of the Islands trust act ; "regional district director" Means a director in relation to a regional district within the meaning Of the Local government act ; "regional district representative" Means a regional district director appointed by the board of a Regional district to the board of an entity; "representative" Means any of the following:
(a) A council representative; (b) A regional district representative; (c) A greater board representative; (d) An islands trust representative; "society" Has the same meaning as in the Society act ; "specified interest" Means any of the following:
(a) An expenditure of public funds to or on behalf of an entity; (b) An advantage, benefit, grant or other form of assistance to or on Behalf of an entity; (c) An acquisition or disposition of an interest or right in real or Personal property that results in an advantage, benefit or Disadvantage to or on behalf of an entity; (d) An agreement respecting a matter described in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).
Nature of pecuniary interest 2 For the purposes of section 104 (1) (e) [exceptions from conflict restrictions] Of the act, a pecuniary interest in relation to a representative in The nature of a specified interest that arises as a result of (a) The representative being appointed by a governing body to the board of The entity, and (b) The representative (i) Attending any part of a meeting during which the specified interest is Under consideration by the following:
(a) The governing body; (b) A committee of the governing body; (c) Any other body referred to in section 93 [application of rules to other bodies] Of the act, (ii) Participating in any discussion of the specified interest at such a Meeting, or (iii) Voting on a question in respect of the specified interest at such a Meeting
Is prescribed.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Community charter , s.b.c. 2003, c. 26, section 104 (1) (e); Greater vancouver sewerage and drainage district act , s.b.c. 1956, c. 59, section 8 (5); Greater vancouver water district act , s.b.c. 1924, c. 22, section 10 (5); Islands trust act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 239, section 6 (7)]