B.C. Reg. 32/2020
M41/2020
Deposited February 24, 2020
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Health Professions Act
Dental Technicians Regulation
[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 172/2022]
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Health Professions Act
;
"complete denture"
means a dental prosthesis, supported by soft tissue, that replaces the
natural teeth and associated structures in an edentulous arch and is
not attached to or supported by natural teeth or implants and which is
removable by the patient;
"dental appliance"
means an appliance or a device designed or offered for a dental
condition or other condition of the orofacial complex, excluding a
mouthguard designed or offered for temporary protection against injury
during sporting activities;
"dental technology"
means the health profession in which a person provides the service of
making, altering or providing dental appliances;
"dentist"
means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the
designated health profession of dentistry;
"denturist"
means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the
designated health profession of denturism;
"edentulous arch"
means a dental arch with no remaining natural teeth or roots;
"implants"
means a device that has been inserted into, over, through or under the
jawbone for the purpose of supporting a dental prosthesis;
"prescription"
means an authorization, issued by a person who is authorized under the
Act to prescribe a dental appliance, to make or alter a dental
appliance for use by a named individual.
College name
2
The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of
the Act in respect of dental technology is "British Columbia College
of Oral Health Professionals".
[en. B.C. Reg. 172/2022, Sch. 2.]
Reserved title
3
The title "dental technician" is reserved for exclusive use by
registrants.
Scope of practice
4
A dental technician may practise dental technology.
Restricted activities
5
(1)
A registrant in the course of practising dental technology may do all
of the following:
(a)
on receipt of a prescription, make or alter a dental appliance and
provide the dental appliance to the person who prescribed it;
(b)
on receipt of a written request from a denturist,
(i)
make or alter a complete denture and provide the denture to the
denturist who requested it, and
(ii)
make or alter a partial denture or overdenture and provide the denture
to the denturist who requested it, if the request is accompanied by a
prescription;
(c)
without a prescription, make minor alterations to a removable dental
appliance and provide the altered dental appliance to the person who
requested it, if the original design of the dental appliance is not
changed.
(2)
Subject to subsection (3), only a registrant who is a dental
technician may provide a service that includes the performance of an
activity set out in subsection (1).
(3)
Subsection (2) does not apply to a person who is engaged solely in the
business of making or supplying, in commercial quantities, articles
for use by registrants, denturists, dentists or medical practitioners.
Limit on services
6
A registrant who is a dental technician may not perform intra-oral
procedures or take oral impressions, other than for the purpose of
making or altering a mouthguard designed or offered for temporary
protection against injury during sporting activities.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]
