B.c. reg. 363/95 M 448/95
Deposited august 23, 1995 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Evidence act Designation regulation [last amended february 9, 2022 by b.c. reg. 21/2022] Industry reference group — hepatitis c/hiv 1 For the purpose of paragraph (d) of the definition of "committee" in Section 51 (1) of the Evidence act , the industry reference group on notification or lookback related to Hepatitis c/hiv, consisting of the group of persons set out in the Attached schedule 1, is designated as a committee.
Provincial perinatal and maternal mortality and morbidity review Committee
2 For the purpose of paragraph (d) of the definition of "committee" in Section 51 (1) of the Evidence act , the provincial perinatal and maternal mortality and morbidity review Committee, consisting of the group of persons set out in the attached Schedule 2, is designated as a committee.
[en. b.c. reg. 20/98; am. b.c. regs. 240/2006, s. (a); 50/2012, s.
(a); 33/2017, s. 1.] Critical incident report subcommittee 3 For the purpose of paragraph (c) of the definition of "committee" in Section 51 (1) of the Evidence act , the critical incident report subcommittee of the quality assurance Committee of the b.c. anaesthetists' society, consisting of the chair Of the quality assurance committee and the vice president of the b.c.
Anaesthetists' society, appointed in accordance with the constitution Of the b.c. anaesthetists' society, is designated as a committee.
[en. b.c. reg. 160/2000; am. b.c. reg. 21/2022, s. (b).] Schedule 1
[am. b.c. regs. 4/2010, s. 3; 182/2018.] 1. the reference group will have a core membership of the vice Presidents of medicine or their designates as follows:
Hospital/organization Name/title Alternate
British columbia's women's hospital Penny ballam, vice president, women's health programs Vancouver hospital and health sciences centre Charles wright, vice president, medical affairs Jeff coleman, vice president, clinical operations St. paul's hospital Tom ward, vice president, medicine Kelowna general hospital Phil white, chief of staff Greater victoria hospital society David newsome, vice president, medicine Royal columbian hospital Ron mcpherson, vice president, medicine Anthony nolan, respirologist British columbia's children's hospital Louis wadsworth Doug cochrane, head, dept. of surgery 2. the core membership will be augmented by representation from:
University of british columbia Rick mathias, professor, health care & epidemiology Centre for disease control Alison bell, director, epidemiology services Ministry of health Judy vestrup, medical consultant, acute care division Neil fatin, medical consultant, provincial programs Schedule 2
[en. b.c. reg. 163/2018; am. b.c. regs. 138/2018; 202/2020.] Provincial perinatal and maternal mortality and morbidity review Committee
British columbia college of nurses and midwives (midwifery) Amy braunstein British columbia college of nurses and midwives (neonatal) Sarah rourke British columbia college of nurses and midwives (obstetrics) Melanie basso College of physicians and surgeons of british columbia Dr. j. galt wilson Coroners service of british columbia Carla springinotic Divisions of family practice Dr. ashnoor nagji First nations health authority, women's health Dr. unjali malhotra Fraser health authority, perinatologist Dr. kirsten grabowska Interior health authority, medical health officer, public health And prevention medicine Dr. sue pollock Interior health authority, neonatologist Dr. jill boulton Interior health authority, obstetrician/gynecologist Dr. shiraz moola Island health authority, nanaimo, obstetrician/gynecologist Dr. jeffrey somerville Ministry of health, women's and maternal health, population and Public health Dr. michelle barros pinheiro Northern health authority, family practice physician, maternity Care
Dr. bill kingston Obstetrician/gynecologist, provincial perinatal and maternal Mortality and morbidity review committee member-at-large Dr. jan christilaw Pediatric representative Dr. deepak manhas Perinatal services bc medical lead, maternal fetal health, Provincial perinatal and maternal mortality and morbidity review Committee chair Dr. sayrin lalji Perinatal services bc provincial director, surveillance and Research
Amy hobbs Perinatal services bc provincial executive director Dr. tamil kendall Provincial health services authority, internist, obstetrical Medicine
Dr. jayson potts Provincial health services authority, obstetrician/gynecologist Dr. petra selke Provincial health services authority, pathologist with expertise In perinatal pathology Dr. anna lee Vancouver coastal health authority, obstetrician/gynecologist Dr. carolyn donnelly [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Evidence act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 124, s. 51 (1).]