B.C. Reg. 130/2010
298/2010
Deposited June 4, 2010
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Community Charter
Development Cost Charge Amendment Bylaw Approval Exemption Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 117/2018, June 15, 2018]
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"British Columbia consumer price index"
means the annual average All-items Consumer Price Index for British
Columbia, as published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the
Statistics Act
(Canada) for the previous calendar year;
"development cost charge amendment bylaw"
means a bylaw that changes the amount of a development cost charge
specified in a development cost charge bylaw;
"Vancouver consumer price index"
means the annual average Consumer Price Index for Vancouver, as
published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the
Statistics Act
(Canada) for the previous calendar year;
"Victoria consumer price index"
means the annual average Consumer Price Index for Victoria, as
published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the
Statistics Act
(Canada) for the previous calendar year.
Exemption — approval of development cost charge bylaws
2
(1)
Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a development cost charge
amendment bylaw is exempt from the approval requirement in section 560
[inspector approval of development cost charge bylaw]
of the
Local Government Act
if
(a)
the bylaw changes the amount of one or more development cost charges
once in a 12 month period after the date of the adoption of the bylaw,
and
(b)
the change in the amount of the development cost charge does not
exceed
(i)
in respect of a municipality in the Metro Vancouver Regional District
or Fraser Valley Regional District, the percentage change in the
Vancouver consumer price index,
(ii)
in respect of a municipality in the Capital Regional District, the
percentage change in the Victoria consumer price index, or
(iii)
in respect of a municipality located anywhere else in British
Columbia, the percentage change in the British Columbia consumer price
index.
(2)
A local government may make use of an exemption under subsection (1)
once each year for up to 4 years from
(a)
the date of the adoption of a development cost charge bylaw approved
by the inspector, or
(b)
the date of the adoption of a bylaw approved by the inspector that
amends a development cost charge bylaw.
(3)
A copy of a development cost charge amendment bylaw under subsection
(1) must be filed as soon as is reasonable with the inspector after
the bylaw has been adopted.
[am. B.C. Reg. 117/2018, s. 6.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Community Charter
, S.B.C. 2003, c. 26, section 280 (2) and (3)]
