B.c. reg. 60/2005 O.c. 132/2005 Deposited february 25, 2005 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Evidence act Electronic court documents regulation [last amended march 30, 2022 by b.c. reg. 75/2022] Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Evidence act .
Electronic court systems 2 The following electronic information or record systems are designated As electronic court systems for the purposes of section 41.1 of The act:
(a) The civil electronic information system; (b) The court services online system; (c) The justice information system; (d) The web court of appeal tracking system; (e) The supreme court scheduling system; (f) The prisoner information management system; (g) The search warrant tracking system.
Secure electronic signatures 3 (1) A record contained within an electronic court system and signed Electronically by a person described in subsection (2) is a Prescribed electronic record for the purpose of section 41.3 of the Act.
(2) The persons who may electronically sign a record for the purpose of Subsection (1) are the following:
(a) A person who exercises an adjudicative function in a court, if the Record being signed relates to a matter in which the person has acted As adjudicator; (b) A clerk of a court, if the clerk is acting in the capacity of clerk in Relation to the record being signed; (c) A peace officer or a person acting in an enforcement capacity under Any enactment, if the peace officer or person is acting in their Official capacity in relation to the record being signed; (d) A person accused or convicted of an offence under any enactment, or The person's representative, if the record being signed relates to the Person accused or convicted; (e) A person who is an employee of the government of any jurisdiction, or Who is working on contract for or on behalf of the government of any Jurisdiction, if the person is acting in their official capacity in Relation to the record being signed.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2022, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Evidence act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 124, ss. 41.1 (2) and 41.3 (3).]