B.c. reg. 205/2015 Chief electoral officer Deposited november 6, 2015 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Election act Electoral purposes for access to and use of personal information Regulation
[last amended september 16, 2021 by b.c. reg. 244/2021] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Election act ; "federal chief electoral officer" Means the chief electoral officer appointed under the Canada elections act ; "federal electoral event" Means any of the following:
(a) An election or by-election under the Canada elections act ; (b) A referendum under the Referendum act (canada); "municipal electoral event" Means any of the following:
(a) An election listed in section 1 (1) [elections to which this act applies] Of the Local elections campaign financing act ; (b) Assent voting described in section 2 (1) [assent voting to which this act applies] Of the Local elections campaign financing act ; (c) An alternative approval process under the Local government act ; (d) A referendum under any of the following:
(i) The
Local government act ; (ii) The
Resort municipality of whistler act ; (iii) The
School act ; (iv) The
Vancouver charter .
Restrictions on use of personal information 2 (1) For the purposes of section 275 (3) (c) of the act, where the act Requires or authorizes the disclosure, public inspection or other use Of or access to records containing personal information, the following Restrictions are established on the use of that personal information For provincial, municipal or federal electoral purposes:
(a) Personal information may only be used for the following provincial Electoral purposes:
(i) The administration by the chief electoral officer of the Recall and initiative act ; (ii) The participation in a recall petition under the Recall and initiative act By the proponent of the petition and the member of the legislative Assembly who is the subject of the petition; (iii) The administration by the chief electoral officer of the Referendum act (british columbia); (iv) Communication with voters, including for the purposes of soliciting Campaign support and political contributions and recruiting party Members, by the following:
(a) A provincial registered political party; (b) A registered constituency association; (c) A candidate in an election under the Election act ; (d) A member of the legislative assembly; (b) Personal information may only be used for the municipal electoral Purpose of the administration by a local government of a municipal Electoral event; (c) Personal information may only be used for the following federal Electoral purposes:
(i) The administration by the federal chief electoral officer of the Canada elections act ; (ii) The administration by the federal chief electoral officer of the Referendum act (canada).
(2) For certainty, personal information referred to in section 275 of the Act may only be used for the specific electoral purpose for which it Was provided by the chief electoral officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 244/2021.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Election act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 106, s. 283.]