B.c. reg. 101/2004 M59/2004
Deposited march 23, 2004 Effective april 1, 2004 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Safety standards act Elevating devices safety regulation [last amended march 31, 2022 by b.c. reg. 184/2019 and includes Amendments by b.c. reg. 54/2021] Definitions for the act 1 For the purposes of the act:
"amusement ride" Means a combination of components that carries, conveys or directs an Individual over or through a fixed course or within a defined area for The purpose of amusement or entertainment, and includes a recreational Railway;
"elevating device" Means any apparatus, mechanism or device that is installed or Positioned for the purpose of raising, lowering, moving, carrying, Conveying or directing persons, materials or goods and includes any of The following:
(a) A passenger ropeway; (b) An amusement ride; (c) A recreational railway; (d) A rotating platform; (e) A personnel hoist; (f) A stage lift; (g) A special elevating device; "major alteration" Means an alteration to an elevating device which alters any one of the Following:
(a) Rated load; (b) Rated speed; (c) The number of hoistway entrances; (d) The drive system; (e) The device classification; (f) The original structural design; (g) The design, materials or strength of a hydraulic cylinder or plunger; (h) The working pressure of a hydraulic elevating device system, if the Working pressure is increased by more than 5%; "minor alteration" Means an alteration to an elevating device that is not a "major Alteration";
"passenger conveyor" Means a device using a moving, flexible element to transport persons Uphill for recreational or sport activities; "passenger ropeway" Means any device that carries, pulls or pushes passengers along a Level or inclined pathway by means of a haulrope or other flexible Element that is driven by a non-portable power unit, and includes Fibre and wire rope tows, j-bars, t-bars, platter lifts, funiculars, Conveyors, self-powered reversible above surface ropeways, chairlifts And gondolas with fixed or detachable grips, and single or double Reversible tramways.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 1; 164/2013, sch. s. 1.] Definitions for this regulation 2 In this regulation:
"above surface passenger ropeway" Means a ropeway on which passengers are transported in or on a cable Supported carrier and are not in contact with the ground or snow Surface;
"acceptance inspection" Means an inspection of an elevating device that (a) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 1 (a).] (b) Is conducted for the purpose of determining whether the elevating Device complies with the requirements of all applicable codes, Regulations and adopted technical standards; "act" Means the Safety standards act ; "attendant" Means an individual involved in marshalling passengers, cars or Carriers, in assisting or instructing patrons or in other safety Related operating duties; "certified elevating device mechanic" Means an individual who holds a certificate of qualification, of a Class established under section 4.2, as a certified elevating device Mechanic;
"direct supervision" Means supervision by a certified elevating device mechanic who is on The same premises as the supervised person, in sufficient proximity That the certified elevating device mechanic can readily (a) Observe the supervised person directly and without the aid of Electronic devices, (b) Provide verbal direction and immediate assistance to the supervised Person, and (c) Evaluate the work of the supervised person; "educational body" Means
(a) A university as defined in the University act , the Royal roads university act Or the Thompson rivers university act , (b) An institution as defined in the College and institute act , (c) An educational body of another jurisdiction, recognized by a Provincial safety manager as equivalent in nature to one described in Paragraph (a) or (b), and (d) A registered institution as defined in the Private career training institutions act ; "electrical safety regulation" Means the electrical safety regulation, b.c. reg. 100/2004; "existing elevating device" Means an elevating device that is not a new elevating device or an Existing elevating device as defined in csa b44; "general supervision" Means supervision by a certified elevating device mechanic who is Readily available to the supervised person for the purpose of Providing timely direction and assistance; "licensed electrical contractor" Has the same meaning as in the electrical safety regulation; "licensed elevating device contractor" Means an individual who is a licensed contractor and holds a licence Of a class established under section 6 as an elevating device Contractor;
"mandatory maintenance" Means the maintenance of an elevating device that is provided by a Licensed elevating device contractor under contract to an owner and Includes periodic examination and maintenance services such as Cleaning and lubrication, all safety-related tests required by the Ministry and immediate treatment of any safety-related deficiency Including the adjustment, repair or replacement of any defective Equipment or components as required by the codes and standards adopted Under section 17 or manufacturer's specifications, but does not Include an alteration as specified by a provincial safety manager or An alteration as defined by the adopted code; "manufacturer's specifications" Means the specifications provided by the elevating device designer or Manufacturer;
"mechanic-in-training" Means an individual who (a) Holds a class it certificate of qualification as established under Section 4.6,
(b) Is employed by a licensed elevating device contractor, and (c) Is receiving training for the purpose of obtaining a certificate of Qualification as a certified elevating device mechanic; "new elevating device" Means any elevating device for which no previous operating permit has Been issued for use at the specific location for which an operating Permit is sought for the device, but does not include a moveable Passenger ropeway that is moved in accordance with this regulation; "owner" Means a person who has charge of an elevating device as owner or Agent;
"passenger ropeway operator" Means any person who has operational responsibility for any passenger Ropeway;
"personnel hoist" Means a hoist, and structures associated with the hoist, that are not A permanent part of a building, structure or other works, and that are Used during construction, alteration or demolition for the raising or Lowering of individuals or materials or both, in connection with or Related to a building project; "recreational railway" Means an amusement ride operated on a set of rails, within or outside Of the confines of a historical park or historical sites, for the sole Purpose of providing to individuals rides on rolling stock; "rotating platform" Means a special elevating device that has a turntable designed to Transport passengers in a circular direction around a given axis; "safety standards general regulation" Means the safety standards general regulation, b.c. reg. 105/2004; "skills passport" Means a document issued by a provincial safety manager to a certified Elevating device mechanic or a mechanic-in-training that (a) Describes specific skills that have been acquired by the holder of the Document with respect to installing, altering, repairing or Maintaining elevating devices, and (b) Is intended to be used for the purpose of verifying that those skills Have been acquired by the holder; "special elevating device" Means a device that by its unusual design requires special Interpretation of appropriate codes and standards by a provincial Safety manager; "stage lift" Means a special elevating device which is an integral part of a stage And is designed to raise and lower personnel and equipment directly Connected with a stage performance; "surface passenger ropeway" Means a ropeway on which passengers are propelled by means of a Circulating rope while remaining in contact with the ground or snow Surface.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 2; 239/2014, s. 1; 184/2019, app.
2, s. 1.] Relation to safety standards general regulation 2.1 (1) Except as set out in this regulation, this regulation is subject to The safety standards general regulation.
(2) Part 5 of the safety standards general regulation does not apply for The purposes of this regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 2.] Part 1 — general qualification and licensing provisions Division 1 — individuals who may do regulated work Regulated work done under supervision 2.2 Except for the purposes of section 3.3 (4), section 5 of the safety Standards general regulation does not apply for the purposes of this Division.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 4.] Who may do regulated work in respect of amusement rides 3 An individual must not do regulated work in respect of amusement rides Unless the individual (a) Is a licensed contractor, or (b) Is employed by a licensed contractor for the purpose of doing Regulated work in respect of amusement rides.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 5.] Who may do regulated work in respect of passenger ropeways 3.1 (1) An individual must not do regulated work in respect of passenger Ropeways unless the individual (a) Is a licensed contractor, (b) Is employed by a licensed contractor for the purpose of doing Regulated work in respect of passenger ropeways, (c) Holds a certificate of qualification relevant to the regulated work to Be done, or (d) Is permitted to do so under this section.
(2) An individual must not do regulated work as an attendant or operator Of a passenger ropeway unless the individual (a) Holds a certificate of qualification relevant to the attendance or Operation of the type of passenger ropeway to be attended or operated, Or
(b) Has been trained to attend or operate the passenger ropeway by an Individual referred to in paragraph (a).
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 5.] Who may do regulated work in respect of other elevating devices 3.2 (1) This section does not apply to regulated work done in respect of Amusement rides or passenger ropeways.
(2) An individual must not do regulated work in respect of elevating Devices unless one of the following applies:
(a) The individual (i) Is a certified elevating device mechanic and the regulated work is Within the scope of the individual's certificate of qualification, and (ii) Is, or is employed by, a licensed elevating device contractor; (b) The individual is a certified elevating device mechanic acting outside The scope of the individual's certificate of qualification and the Regulated work is (i) Done under the direct supervision of a certified elevating device Mechanic, and (ii) Within the scope of the supervisor's certificate of qualification; (b.1) The individual is a mechanic-in-training and the regulated work is (i) Done under (a) The direct supervision of a certified elevating device mechanic, if The individual is performing a skill that is not signed off in the Individual's skills passport, or (b) The general supervision of a certified elevating device mechanic, if Clause (a) does not apply, and (ii) Within the scope of the supervisor's certificate of qualification; (c) The regulated work is described in section 3.3 and is done in Accordance with that section.
(3) An individual must not do regulated work as an attendant of an Elevating device unless the individual has been trained to attend the Device in a training program acceptable to a provincial safety Manager.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 5; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 2.] Regulated work that may be supervised by licensed elevating device Contractor
3.3 (1) This section does not apply to regulated work done in respect of Amusement rides or passenger ropeways.
(2) An individual may install or alter non-structural elevator cab Enclosure linings, flooring, floor coverings or door claddings if the Individual
(a) Holds a permit, issued for the purposes of this section, that is Relevant to the regulated work to be done, and (b) Is under the general supervision of a licensed elevating device Contractor who holds a class a, ra, h or ic licence.
(3) An individual may install or alter elevator emergency communications Systems, security systems designed to restrict access to an elevating Device or display screen systems or security cameras inside an Elevator cab if the individual (a) Is employed, for the purpose of doing the regulated work, by a Licensed electrical contractor, (b) Does the regulated work under a permit, issued for the purposes of This section, that is relevant to the regulated work to be done, and (c) Is under the general supervision of a licensed elevating device Contractor.
(4) An individual may install or service lights and receptacles, fire Alarm initiating devices or electrical ventilation equipment that are Located in a hoistway if all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The regulated work is done by a licensed electrical contractor, or by An individual employed, for the purpose of doing the regulated work, By a licensed electrical contractor; (b) The regulated work is done under a permit issued under the electrical Safety regulation; (c) A licensed elevating device contractor directly supervises both the Access to the hoistway and all regulated work that involves connecting To any component of the elevator that is subject to a code adopted Under this regulation.
(5) An individual may install or service sprinkler equipment that is Located in a hoistway if a licensed elevating device contractor Directly supervises access to the hoistway.
(6) A licensed elevating device contractor who is supervising regulated Work done under this section must not permit regulated work to be done In any manner that may adversely affect the safe operation of an Elevating device, regardless of (a) The qualifications of the individual doing the regulated work, or (b) What is permitted under the permit referred to in subsection (3) (b) Or (4) (b).
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 5; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 3.] Regulated work in hoistway or on top of elevator 3.4 An individual must not access a hoistway or the top of an elevator car Unless the individual (a) Is
(i) A certified elevating device mechanic, (i.1) A mechanic-in-training who is under (a) The direct supervision of a certified elevating device mechanic, if The individual is performing a skill that is not signed off in the Individual's skills passport, or (b) The general supervision of a certified elevating device mechanic, if Clause (a) does not apply, or (ii) Emergency personnel working in the course of the individual's duties, (b) Has the permission of a provincial safety manager, or (c) Is doing regulated work described in section 3.3 (4) or (5), if the Regulated work is done in accordance with that section.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 5; am. b.c. regs. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 4; 54/2021, s. 1.] Division 2 — certificate of qualification for passenger ropeways Passenger ropeway trainer certificate of qualification 4 (0.1) An application for a certificate of qualification, or a renewal of a Certificate of qualification, made under this section must include Proof, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, that the applicant Has successfully completed a training program that (i) Is administered by an educational body, and (ii) In the opinion of a provincial safety manager, is relevant to the Regulated work to be done under the certificate and to the types of Passenger ropeways to which the certificate applies.
(1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 2, s. 1.] (2) The holder of a valid passenger ropeway trainer certificate of Qualification may train individuals to do regulated work as attendants Or operators of the types of passenger ropeways named on the Certificate.
[am. b.c. regs. 239/2014, s. 6; 45/2017, sch. 2, s. 1.] Division 2.1 — certified elevating device mechanics Applications under this division 4.1 (1) An application for a certificate of qualification, or a renewal of a Certificate of qualification, made under this division must include Proof, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, of all of the Following, as applicable:
(a) With respect to a certificate of qualification as a certified Elevating device mechanic, the applicant's relevant training and work Experience as set out in section 4.3; (b) With respect to a certificate of qualification as a Mechanic-in-training, the matters referred to in section 4.6 (2) or (5), as applicable; (c) With respect to a certificate of qualification for an individual to Whom section 4.7 applies, the matters referred to in that section.
(2) For the purpose of applying section 2 of the safety standards general Regulation to an applicant described in subsection (1) (a) of this Section, fees for examinations, if any, apply to each attempt of a Required examination.
(3) Despite section 3 (2) of the safety standards general regulation, if An applicant for a certificate of qualification fails to pass all Required examinations on the third attempt, the applicant may not Apply for a certificate again for at least 5 years after that attempt.
(4) A provincial safety manager may renew a certificate of qualification Only if the certificate holder applies to renew the certificate before Its expiry.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7.] Classes of certified elevating device mechanic certificates of Qualification
4.2 The following classes of certified elevating device mechanic Certificates of qualification, with their corresponding restrictions, Are established:
(a) Class a — restricted to installing, altering, repairing or maintaining Those types of elevating devices, other than passenger ropeways or Amusement rides, that are identified on the certified elevating device Mechanic's certificate; (b) Class c — restricted to installing, altering, repairing or maintaining Those types of personnel hoists that are identified on the certified Elevating device mechanic's certificate; (c) Class h — restricted to installing, altering, repairing or maintaining Those types of elevating devices that are (i) Designed for individuals with physical disabilities, and (ii) Identified on the certified elevating device mechanic's certificate; (d) Class mr — restricted to doing those types of repairs or maintenance Of elevating devices that are identified on the certified elevating Device mechanic's certificate, while employed by a licensed elevating Device contractor who holds a class mr licence that authorizes the Same types of repairs or maintenance.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7.] Certified elevating device mechanic certificates of qualification 4.3 (1) An applicant for a certified elevating device mechanic certificate of Qualification must include with the application proof, acceptable to a Provincial safety manager, that the applicant has successfully Completed all of the following, as applicable:
(a) An elevating device mechanics training program, or equivalent Technical education, acceptable to a provincial safety manager; (b) For a class a, c or h certificate of qualification, the Mechanic-in-training program administered by the british columbia Safety authority; (c) For a class mr certificate of qualification, 40 hours of education That, in the opinion of a provincial safety manager, is relevant to The repair and maintenance of elevating devices; (d) The required amount of experience doing regulated work within the Scope of the certificate of qualification being applied for, that Amount being, (i) For a class a certificate of qualification, 8 000 hours, and (ii) For a class c or h certificate of qualification, 4 000 hours.
(2) An applicant for a certificate of qualification as a certified Elevating device mechanic must pass all examinations, if any, required By a provincial safety manager in no more than 3 attempts.
(3) A certificate of qualification issued by a provincial safety manager To a certified elevating device mechanic is valid for a period of 3 Years from the date of issue.
(4) A certificate of qualification may be renewed only if the applicant Provides proof, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, of having Completed at least 24 hours of continuing education, within the term Of the certificate of qualification that is to be renewed, that the Provincial safety manager recognizes or evaluates as being relevant to The scope of the certificate.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), continuing education may be Offered through an educational body, the british columbia safety Authority, a manufacturer, a licensed elevating device contractor or a Trade or industry association.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7.] Duties and entitlements of certified elevating device mechanics 4.4 (1) A certified elevating device mechanic may, on behalf of the certified Elevating device mechanic's employer, make declarations that regulated Work within the scope of the certified elevating device mechanic's Certificate of qualification complies with the act and regulations.
(2) A certified elevating device mechanic who, under a permit, does Regulated work in respect of an elevating device must do all of the Following:
(a) Ensure that the regulated work complies with the act and regulations; (b) Request from the regulatory authority any inspections required by the Act, the regulations or the permit; (c) If permitted or required to do so by the regulatory authority, sign a Declaration that the regulated work complies with the act and Regulations;
(d) Ensure that the individuals doing the regulated work have the Qualifications that are appropriate for that type of regulated work.
(3) A certified elevating device mechanic must disclose to a safety Officer any regulated product or regulated work that creates a risk of Either personal injury or damage to property.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7; am. b.c. regs. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 5; 54/2021, s. 2.] Supervision by certified elevating device mechanic 4.5 A certified elevating device mechanic who is supervising Mechanics-in-training or other certified elevating device mechanics Must sign the skills passport of each supervised individual, if that Individual has successfully demonstrated proficiency in a skill Described in that skills passport.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7.] Mechanic-in-training certificate of qualification 4.6 (1) A class it certificate of qualification for mechanics-in-training is Established.
(2) An applicant for a class it certificate of qualification must provide Proof, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, that the applicant (a) Has, within one year before the date of application, completed a Training course, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, that Includes at least 24 hours of instructional time in occupational Health and safety, and (b) Is employed by a licensed elevating device contractor who is Authorized to do the type of regulated work that corresponds with the Class of certificate of qualification for which the applicant is Applying.
(3) Without limiting section 2.2 of the safety standards general Regulation, the terms and conditions that a provincial safety manager May attach on issuing a certificate of qualification to a Mechanic-in-training include (a) Limitations on the scope of the regulated work that may be done under The certificate, and (b) Setting experience, education and training requirements that must be Completed by a specified date or by the date the certificate expires.
(4) A certificate of qualification issued by a provincial safety manager To a mechanic-in-training is valid for a period of one year from the Date of issue.
(5) A provincial manager may renew a certificate of qualification only if The applicant provides the following:
(a) For the first renewal, proof of registration in a training program for The purpose of obtaining a certificate of qualification as a certified Elevating device mechanic; (b) For subsequent renewals, (i) Proof of the applicant's successful progression through the training Program referred to in paragraph (a), and (ii) The applicant's skills passport.
(6) A provincial safety manager may refuse, without further grounds, to Renew the certificate of qualification of a mechanic-in-training who Has failed to become eligible (a) For a class a certificate of qualification within 7 years from the Date the class it certificate of qualification was first issued, or (b) For a class c or h certificate of qualification within 5 years from The date the class it certificate of qualification was first issued.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 7; am. b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 2, s. 2.] Repealed
4.7 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 101/2004, s. 4.7 (7).] Division 3 — contractor's licence Bond not required for contractor's licence 5 A bond is not required to obtain or renew a contractor's licence.
Classes of contractor's licence 6 The following classes of elevating device contractor's licences with Their corresponding restrictions are established:
(a) Class a — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, altering, Repairing, maintaining or testing of any elevating device except a Passenger ropeway or an amusement ride; (b) Class ra — restricted to installing, altering, repairing, maintaining Or testing of those elevating devices, other than passenger ropeways Or amusement rides, that are identified on the contractor's licence; (c) Class m — restricted to maintaining and repairing those elevating Devices, other than passenger ropeways or amusement rides, that are Identified on the contractor's licence; (d) Class c — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, altering, Repairing, maintaining or testing of personnel hoists; (e) Class h — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, altering, Repairing, maintaining or testing of elevating devices for individuals With physical disabilities; (f) Class am — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, Altering, operating, repairing, maintaining or testing of amusement Rides, other than recreational railways; (g) Class ic — restricted to installing of non-structural elevator cab Enclosure linings; (h) Class mr — restricted to the maintaining and repairing of those Elevating devices identified on the contractor's licence; (i) Class pra — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, Altering, repairing, maintaining or testing of any classification of Passenger ropeway; (j) Class prb — restricted to operating, installing, altering, repairing, Maintaining or testing of any classification of passenger ropeway; (k) Class prc — restricted to operating, repairing, maintaining or testing Of fixed-grip above surface passenger ropeways, and all Classifications of surface passenger ropeways; (l) Class prd — restricted to operating, repairing, maintaining or testing Of all types of surface passenger ropeways; (m) Class rr — restricted to designing, constructing, installing, Altering, operating, repairing, maintaining or testing of recreational Railways.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 3.] Elevating device contractor's licence 7 (1) An applicant for an elevating device contractor's licence, or a Renewal of an elevating device contractor's licence, must provide all Of the following:
(a) A list of the elevating devices that are or will be maintained by the Applicant under mandatory maintenance program contracts; (b) Identification of the frequency of mandatory maintenance of each Listed elevating device; (c) A list of all certified elevating device mechanics and Mechanics-in-training who are employed by the applicant.
(2) Section 6 (a) of the safety standards general regulation does not Apply to an applicant for an elevating device contractor's licence.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 8; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 6.] General duties of licensed elevating device contractor 8 (1) A licensed elevating device contractor must maintain a current list of The elevating devices maintained by the licensed elevating device Contractor under mandatory maintenance program contracts, and (a) Provide a copy of the list annually to a provincial safety manager, And
(b) Notify a provincial safety manager of any additions or changes to the List within 3 days of the addition or change.
(2) A licensed elevating device contractor must not employ a certified Elevating device mechanic or a mechanic-in-training for the purpose of Doing regulated work outside the scope of the employed individual's Certificate of qualification, unless (a) The employed individual will be under the direct supervision of a Certified elevating device mechanic who holds a certificate of Qualification relevant to the regulated work, and (b) The licensed elevating device contractor verifies that, if a skill in The employed individual's skills passport is signed by the supervising Certified elevating device mechanic under section 4.5, the employed Individual has successfully demonstrated proficiency in that skill.
(3) Sections 7 (1) and 9 of the safety standards general regulation do not Apply to a licensed elevating device contractor.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 8; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 7.] Part 2 — permits and inspections Division 1 — permits Application requirements for operating permits 9 (1) An applicant for an operating permit must provide evidence, acceptable To a provincial safety manager, that any required mandatory Maintenance program is in place for the elevating device named on the Application.
(2) If no previous operating permit has been issued for an elevating Device, an applicant must satisfy the provincial safety manager that, In addition to the requirements in subsection (1), the elevating Device has successfully undergone an acceptance inspection.
Operating permit to be kept on site 10 An operating permit for an elevating device must be kept where the Device is located and must be readily accessible to a safety officer.
Division 2 — exemption for field safety representative requirement When field safety representative is not required 11 (1) Section 6 (a) of the safety standards general regulation does not Apply to an application for a contractor's licence under this Regulation.
(2) Sections 16 and 17 (3) of the safety standards general regulation do Not apply to an application for an installation permit under this Regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 10.] Division 3 — inspection requirements Acceptance inspection and test 12 (1) In this section, "contractor or mechanic" Means, respectively, (a) A licensed elevating device contractor, or (b) A certified elevating device mechanic employed by a licensed elevating Device contractor.
(2) On completing regulated work under an installation permit for a new Elevating device, or an elevating device for which an operating permit Has previously been issued but has undergone a major alteration, a Contractor or mechanic must (a) Submit to a provincial safety manager a signed declaration that the Regulated work complies with the act and regulations, (b) Request a safety officer to conduct an acceptance inspection, and (c) Ensure that, unless the provincial safety manager permits otherwise, The elevating device is not put into or returned to service until the Inspection is complete.
(3) On completing regulated work under an installation permit for an Elevating device that has undergone a minor alteration, a contractor Or mechanic must do both of the following:
(a) Within 30 days of completing the regulated work, submit to a Provincial safety manager a signed declaration that the regulated work Complies with the act and regulations; (b) Within 60 days of returning the elevating device to service, request a Safety officer to conduct an acceptance inspection.
(4) For the purposes of subsections (2) (a) and (3) (a), a declaration Must be signed by a certified elevating device mechanic who is Authorized, under the certified elevating device mechanic's Certificate of qualification, to perform the regulated work that is The subject of the declaration.
(5) If an acceptance inspection will be conducted in response to a request Under this section, the contractor or mechanic must (a) Make available to the safety officer a certified elevating device Mechanic for the purpose of performing tests relevant to the Acceptance inspection, and (b) Submit to that safety officer any information relevant to the Acceptance inspection.
[en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 8.] Maintenance control program compliance document 12.1 (1) In this section, "mcp compliance document" Means a maintenance control program compliance document that (a) Is in the form required by a provincial safety manager, and (b) Confirms that the testing and maintenance of the elevating device that Is the subject of the document complies with section 8.6 of asme A17.1-16/ csa b44-16 "safety code for elevators and escalators" with The variations set out in the schedule to this regulation as it reads On april 30, 2020.
(2) A licensed elevating device contractor must submit to a provincial Safety manager an mcp compliance document on or before (a) Requesting an acceptance inspection, (b) Changing the frequency of maintenance for an elevating device, or (c) Entering into a new maintenance contract under Section 21 (2) with respect to an elevating device for which An operating permit was issued on or after april 30, 2020.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 3, s. 3 (c).] [en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 8; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 3, S. 3.]
Identification label to be issued following acceptance inspection 13 (1) A safety officer must issue an identification label for each new Elevating device at the time of a successful acceptance inspection.
(2) The owner must display an identification label issued under subsection (1) in a conspicuous place within an elevator cab or, for all other Elevating devices, adjacent to the elevating device.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Periodic inspections 14 Following an acceptance inspection, elevating devices must be Periodically inspected by a safety officer as follows:
(a) In respect of elevating devices other than passenger ropeways, in Accordance with the applicable codes and standards adopted under Section 17;
(b) In respect of passenger ropeways, on the date agreed to, in writing, Between the owner of the passenger ropeway and the safety officer.
[en. b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 12; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 9.] Repealed
15 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 239/2014, s. 12.] Inspections for passenger ropeways 16 (1) If a passenger ropeway licensed contractor or a passenger ropeway Owner does or supervises regulated work under an installation permit, That person must apply to a safety officer for an inspection and Submit the relevant technical information in respect of regulated work Done on a new passenger ropeway or alterations to an existing Passenger ropeway.
(2) If a passenger ropeway has not been used for the carriage of Passengers for 2 or more consecutive years, the person who holds an Operating permit for that passenger ropeway must apply to a safety Officer for an inspection of that passenger ropeway and the safety Officer may order a load test.
(3) A person must pay the required fee for an inspection under this Section.
[am. b.c. regs. 239/2014, s. 13; 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Division 4 — regulated products Adoption of safety codes and standards 17 (1) The codes and standards referred to in the schedule to this regulation Are adopted by reference with the variations set out in that schedule.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 3, s. 1 (b).] (3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 3, s. 2 (b).] [en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 10; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app, 3, ss. 1 and 2.] Application of this regulation 18 (1) The following types of elevating devices are exempt from this Regulation:
(a) Portable elevating devices for individuals with physical disabilities; (b) Elevating devices for individuals with physical disabilities if the Travel of the lift is 500 mm or less; (c) An elevating device specifically designed to provide access to or from A single family dwelling house; (d) An elevating device designed to provide access within a dwelling House;
(e) Piling or stacking machines or similar devices used within one storey; (f) Cranes and hoists for lifting and lowering goods or materials and Which are provided with unguided hooks or slings; (g) Lifting devices that are part of a fully automatic conveyor or Material handling system; (h) Freight ramps that have a means for adjusting the slope of the ramp; (i) Vehicle servicing hoists; (j) Elevating devices that are installed in or adjacent to a barn and used Exclusively for agricultural purposes; (k) Freight lifting devices that are completely mechanically loaded and Unloaded, if no individual is permitted to be in the car or on the Platform of the lift at any time, unless, when the device is not in Motion at any landing, the car or platform is physically disengaged From its source of motion, for which purpose no clutches or similar Devices that may accidentally engage the source of motion may be used, And which are inaccessible to the general public and fenced in or Guarded to prevent persons accidentally entering the hoist way; (l) Swing stages and window washing equipment; (m) An elevating device whose travel is 2 m or less and used only for The transfer of materials or equipment; (n) A recreational railway operating on track of less than 10 inch gauge.
(2) The following amusement rides are exempted from the application of This regulation:
(a) Waterslides that meet any one of the following criteria:
(i) The height of the slide from the specified water level in the Receiving pool to the top of the loading platform sill is 3.05 m Or less; (ii) The length of the flume is 30.5 m or less, with height/run ratio of 0.1 (6°) or less; (iii) The maximum rider velocity is not greater than 3.6 m/s; (b) Dry slides that do not exceed a height of 4 m; (c) A children's carousel not exceeding a diameter of 1.5 m and not Exceeding a peripheral speed of 29 m per minute; (d) Children's playspaces and equipment to which csa standard z614-98 Applies;
(e) Soft contained play systems to which astm standard f1918-98 applies, Other than stand-alone air-supported structures; (f) Go cart rides; (g) Animal driven rides; (h) Amusement rides driven by muscular power; (i) Coin operated amusement rides which are designed to carry no more than 2 passengers; (j) Recoil tethered rides (bungee); (k) Hot air balloons.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 6; 184/2019, app. 2, s. 11.] Part 3 — safety officers Elevating device safety officer certificate of qualification 19 A provincial safety manager may issue an elevating device safety Officer's certificate of qualification to an individual who supplies Proof, satisfactory to a provincial safety manager, that the applicant Has been employed as an elevator mechanic or in an equivalent Occupation for at least 5 years.
Part 4 — incidents Incidents in respect of all elevating devices 20 Unless otherwise specified by a provincial safety manager, an Elevating device that has been involved in an incident must be shut Down immediately and must not be repaired or returned to service Without the permission of a safety officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Part 5 — technical requirements Division 1 — all elevating devices Owner's operational and maintenance duties 21 (1) An owner must ensure that all new and existing elevating devices are Operated in accordance with this regulation and the manufacturer's Specifications.
(2) An owner must engage a licensed elevating device contractor to Maintain a program of mandatory maintenance for the elevating device To ensure its safe working condition.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the owner is also a licensed Elevating device contractor and performs its own mandatory Maintenance.
(4) The frequency of mandatory maintenance for an elevating device is at Least quarterly.
(5) When any unsafe or potentially unsafe condition exists, an owner must Close an elevating device from the carriage of passengers until a Safety officer permits the elevating device to operate.
[am. b.c. regs. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii); 184/2019, app. 2, s. 12.] Repealed
21.1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 3, s. 4.] Repealed
22 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 7.] Repealed
23 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 2.] Evacuation procedures 24 If evacuation procedures are to be performed by a person other than a Certified elevating device mechanic, the owner must ensure that the Procedures are developed by, and training in the implementation of Those procedures is provided by, a person acceptable to a provincial Safety manager.
[en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 13.] Submission and filing of technical information documents 25 (1) Before the installation of a new elevating device or a minor or major Alteration of an existing elevating device may begin, a technical Information package for the elevating device must be submitted to, and Filed with, a provincial safety manager in the required form.
(2) A provincial safety manager may specify the conditions under which the Documentation in subsection (1) for a new elevating device and for Minor and major alterations to an existing elevating device is to be Submitted.
(3) The technical information package submitted under subsection (1) must Include the seal of a professional engineer approving the Manufacturer's specifications for the construction and installation of A new elevating device, or the design drawings and specifications for A major alteration to an existing elevating device, and the Professional engineer must verify the accuracy of the contents of the Technical information package.
(4) A person must comply with any requirement of a provincial safety Manager in respect of design, construction, installation and Alteration features that are not dealt with in the documents submitted Under subsection (1).
(5) Unless specified otherwise in this regulation, a requirement to submit Drawings, technical specifications and manufacturer's specifications To, and file them with, a provincial safety manager does not imply an Approval by the ministry of those documents.
Expiry of installation permits 25.1 An installation permit expires 5 years after the date the permit is Issued.
[en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 14.] Documentation of evacuation procedures may be required 26 Documentation of evacuation procedures for elevating devices must be Submitted to, and approved by, a provincial safety manager when Required by a provincial safety manager.
Division 1.1 — amusement rides Changes and alterations to amusement rides 26.1 (1) An owner who proposes to make a change to the design or specifications Of an amusement ride must ensure that the change meets the Requirements of the act, the regulations and the manufacturer's Specifications.
(2) The following alterations must be considered to be a major alteration Under the act and a technical information package must be submitted to The provincial safety manager:
(a) Increasing the manufacturer's maximum capacity or speed; (b) Changing the load bearing structure of an amusement ride in a manner That would reduce the original strength of the structure; (c) Changing the source of power for the main drive or control mechanism Of an amusement ride, except with the manufacturer's approval; (d) Changing the method of guiding the passenger carrying units of an Amusement ride; (e) Changing the classification of an amusement ride; (f) Relocating an amusement ride that was designed as a park ride; (g) Changing an amusement ride from ground mounted to trailer mounted.
[en. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 10; am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app.
2, s. 15.] Division 2 — special elevating devices Requirements for a special elevating device 27 If a person wishes to install or construct, or conduct a major Alteration on, a special elevating device, the person must, before Submitting the drawings and specifications required under section 25, Request a written determination from a provincial safety manager Stating which codes and standards are applicable to the special Elevating device.
Division 3 — passenger ropeways Passenger ropeway operator to conduct daily inspections 28 A passenger ropeway operator must perform daily inspections in Accordance with the adopted code, manufacturer's requirements or the Requirements of a safety officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Passenger ropeway operator to maintain records of attendants and Operators
29 A passenger ropeway owner must maintain a record for each individual Operator or attendant that demonstrates that the requirements of Section 3 (4) have been complied with.
Information requirements for installation of passenger ropeways 30 (1) Before the installation of a new passenger ropeway, information must Be submitted to, and filed with, a provincial safety manager, in Accordance with procedures established by the ministry.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the information must include plans, Specifications and technical information that has been approved by a Professional engineer in a manner acceptable to a provincial safety Manager.
(3) The information in subsection (1) must (a) Demonstrate that the passenger ropeway meets the requirements of the Act and regulations, and (b) Provide sufficient detail, as determined by a provincial safety Manager, for use in inspections and incident investigations.
[am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 16.] Acceptance of location plans and profile and route map 31 The owner of a passenger ropeway must submit to a safety officer, Before installing a new passenger ropeway or when relocating an Existing passenger ropeway, (a) A letter of application, (b) A location plan and profile, (c) A route map, and (d) Proof of ownership of, or permission to use, the land that a passenger Ropeway will operate on.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Letter of assurance or equivalent required on completion of a Passenger ropeway 32 On completion of any passenger ropeway construction, installation or Modification performed under an installation permit, the professional Engineer responsible for the supervision of the construction, Installation or modification must provide a signed statement to a Provincial safety manager that the construction, installation or Modification complies with the act and regulations.
[am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 17.] Relocation of wire rope tows and conveyors 33 The owner of a passenger ropeway may, with the prior approval of a Safety officer, operate a moveable passenger ropeway at various Locations.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, s. (a) (ii).] Division 4 — temporary elevating devices Construction elevators 34 (1) In this section, "construction elevator" means an elevator that is Temporarily used for construction or demolition and uses temporary or Permanent equipment in a temporary or permanent location to provide Transportation for construction or demolition personnel, tools or Construction material.
(2) A construction elevator must be installed in accordance with the Requirements of csa b44 for elevators used for construction.
(3) A construction elevator may be installed without firefighters' Emergency operation.
(4) A person who tests a construction elevator must test it for ascending Car overspeed and unintended car movement protection.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 11.] Personnel hoists 35 (1) In this section, "contractor or mechanic" Means, respectively, (a) A licensed elevating device contractor, or (b) A certified elevating device mechanic employed by a licensed elevating Device contractor.
(2) An extension of travel of a personnel hoist must be inspected by a Certified elevating device mechanic.
(2.1) On completing an inspection referred to in subsection (2) or on Relocating a personnel hoist to a new site, a contractor or mechanic Must
(a) Submit to a provincial safety manager a signed declaration that the Regulated work complies with the act and regulations, (b) Request a safety officer to conduct an acceptance inspection, and (c) Ensure that, unless the provincial safety manager permits otherwise, The personnel hoist is not returned to service until the inspection is Complete.
(2.2) For the purposes of subsection (2.1), a declaration must be signed by A certified elevating device mechanic who is authorized, under the Certified elevating device mechanic's certificate of qualification, to Perform the regulated work that is the subject of the declaration.
(3) A swing stage, window washer, scaffolding or similar type equipment Must not be located within 3 m (10 feet) of a personnel hoist unless Guarded in accordance with the applicable safety code.
(4) A personnel hoist must not be operated if (a) The wind speed exceeds 60 km per hour (35 mph), not including gust Wind speed, or (b) Operation is considered unsafe by an individual who is authorized to Operate the personnel hoist under this regulation.
(5) The personnel hoist operator must perform a daily routine safety check And must complete an inspection check list.
(6) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 2.] [am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 12; 164/2013, sch. s. 2; 184/2019, app. 2, s. 18.] Repealed
36 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 13.] Division 5 — lifts for persons with physical disabilities Application
36.1 This division applies to elevating devices to which csa b355 applies.
[en. b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 3.] Maintenance log 36.2 (1) A licensed contractor responsible for the maintenance of an elevating Device must keep a maintenance log in respect of the elevating device.
(2) A maintenance log must (a) Contain detailed records of all tests, inspections and other Maintenance activities performed with respect to the elevating device For the 5 previous years, (b) Be completed (i) No later than 3 months following the performance of each maintenance Activity if records of those activities are kept electronically and Independently of the maintenance log, and (ii) Immediately following the performance of each maintenance activity, in Any other case, and (c) Be kept at all times (i) On the inside surface of the controller cover, or (ii) In another location that is specified on the elevating device and that Is readily accessible to a safety officer.
[en. b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 3.] Emergency communication 36.3 (1) In this section, "authorized personnel" Has the same meaning as in section 1.3 of csa b44-07, safety code for Elevators and escalators.
(2) The owner of an enclosed vertical or stair platform lift must ensure That the lift is provided with an effective two-way communication System that (a) Permits voice communication between a person in the lift and Authorized personnel, and (b) Is acceptable to a safety officer.
(3) The owner must ensure that the communication system is appropriately Staffed by authorized personnel.
[en. b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 3.] Part 6 — operational requirements Machine room and hoistway access and egress 37 Access and egress for the machine room and hoistway entrance of an Elevating device must not be through a private suite or washroom.
Rotating platforms 38 A rotating platform must comply with the following specifications:
(a) A minimum running clearance of 61 cm must be maintained at all shear Points;
(b) The maximum running clearance between the rim of the rotating platform And the floor sill is 6 mm; (c) The maximum rim speed must not exceed 30 cm/sec.; (d) All motor control circuitry must be equipped with phase reversal Protection;
(e) All rotating platforms must be reversible from the control unit or Must incorporate in their design a reversing mechanism conveniently Accessible to the attendant; (f) A fused lock-off type disconnect switch must be located at the control Unit and a remote lockable disconnect switch must be located Convenient to each motor drive unit; (g) A red emergency stop button must be conveniently located in each Quarter section of the platform travel; (h) The maximum platform travel, after an emergency stop has been Initiated, is 5 cm; (i) All control units must be key operated and the key must return to Neutral position when released.
Stage lifts 39 A stage lift must meet the following specifications:
(a) A minimum sill clearance of 6 mm must be maintained; (b) The maximum sill clearance is 12 mm; (c) Where required, equalization (stabilization) means must be provided to Prevent the platform from deflecting more than 9.5 mm from the Horizontal when the rated load is placed on any section of the Platform;
(d) Safety locking mechanisms must be provided on all hydraulic stage Lifts that do not incorporate an anti-creep device in the design; (e) The safety locking mechanism must engage when the lift is not moving; (f) An electrical interlock must be provided to prevent energization of The operating means in the down direction while the safety locking Mechanism is engaged; (g) Safety astragals must be installed on the lower perimeter of the Platform which, when engaged, will stop the lift in the down Direction;
(h) A readily identifiable stop switch must be conveniently located in the Area below the platform so as to render the anti-creep device Inoperative;
(i) All shear hazards must be eliminated; (j) All control units must be located to afford a clear view of the lift; (k) All control units must be key operated and incorporate an emergency Stop button; (l) A fused lockable type disconnect switch must be located adjacent to The control unit; (m) Chains must not be used as a means of suspension.
[am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 19.] Part 7 — technical requirements Repealed
39.1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 20.] Sump pump for escalator 40 A sump pump that is required to prevent water seepage accumulating in The bottom of an escalator must be installed outside the escalator Truss area.
Oil buffer compression return 41 An oil buffer installed after january 1, 1991 must be provided with a Safety device to prevent an elevator from operating if the oil buffer Does not re-extend to its normal position after compression.
Elevator machine room venting 42 A hydraulic elevator machine room must be permanently vented, directly Or indirectly, to the building exterior.
Welding
43 (1) In this section:
"equivalent procedures" Means welding procedures that have equivalent safety standards to Welding procedures set out in a code or standard adopted by this Regulation;
"professional engineer" Means a professional engineer as defined in the Engineers and geoscientists act .
(2) All welding procedures must comply with (a) The procedures set out in an applicable code or standard adopted by This regulation, or (b) If no code or standard adopted by this regulation is applicable, or no Procedures are set out, equivalent procedures.
(3) In a circumstance to which subsection (2) (b) applies, a person must (a) Before welding, obtain the written opinion of a professional engineer As to what would be an equivalent procedure, and (b) After welding, obtain the written opinion of a professional engineer That the procedures used were equivalent procedures.
[en. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 15.] Repealed
44 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 20.] Repealed
45 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 4.] Pin joint connections 46 If a single pin joint connection could create an unsafe condition on a Part of an amusement ride, a safety retainer must be provided.
Link chain design 47 (1) If the safety of the passengers in a passenger carrying unit of an Amusement ride is dependent on a single link chain, a safety retainer Must be used together with the link chain.
(2) A link chain that is used on an amusement ride must be replaced with a New link chain if (a) A reduction occurs in the original diameter of a link in the chain Equal to or exceeding the amusement ride manufacturer's Specifications,
(b) A link is twisted or distorted, (c) Corrosion occurs in a link to a degree that affects the factor of Safety required for the link chain, (d) The link chain is used for a purpose other than that for which it is Intended to be used, or (e) The link chain is used to carry a load in excess of its capacity.
(3) Link chain that is used as a safety retainer or in a stress bearing Application on an amusement ride must (a) Be certified by the chain manufacturer as to its load carrying Capacity,
(b) Not be constructed of twisted wire or stamped links, and (c) Not have cold shuts, quick links, shackles or connecting links added To the link chain, except fasteners that are used as end fasteners on The link chain.
(4) Each fastener that is used with a link chain on an amusement ride must Have a load carrying capacity that is at least equal to the link chain To which it is fastened.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 17.] Kiddie automobile rides 48 A kiddie automobile ride must (a) Be limited or governed so as not to exceed 15 km per hour, (b) If the ride is guided, be designed so that each passenger carrying Unit will stop at the loading and unloading areas without assistance From a passenger, (c) Have a runway that provides sufficient grip to enable each passenger Carrying unit to be driven safely and to stop within a distance as Specified by the manufacturer, and (d) Have the runway monitored during operation.
Bumper cars 49 A passenger carrying unit on a bumper car ride must (a) Be fitted with an encircling buffer as described by the manufacturer's Specifications,
(b) If electrically operated, be provided with a device to maintain Continuous electrical contact at a pressure in accordance with the Manufacturer's specifications, and (c) Have the steering wheel and its hub and all exposed components that Are located between the seat and the steering wheel padded in Accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
Circular rides 50 If a passenger can control the elevation of a passenger carrying unit, The control equipment of each amusement ride must (a) Be so designed that the operator can override the passenger's control, (b) Allow elevation of the passenger carrying unit only after the rotating Mechanism of the passenger carrying unit has been started, and (c) Allow sufficient time for the passenger carrying unit to be lowered to Its lowest position before the rotating mechanism of the passenger Carrying unit is stopped.
Rotary ride 51 A rotary ride must be so designed that (a) The floor and inside cylinder walls are free of protrusions and Indentations,
(b) The top rim of the cylinder is inaccessible to passengers and Spectators, and (c) The entry and exit doors in the cylinder are fitted with locking Mechanisms specified by the manufacturer.
Used travelling rides 52 If a person applies for an operating permit for a used travelling ride For which no previous operating permit has been issued, in addition to Any other requirements under the regulations, the person must submit To a provincial safety manager (a) Evidence that all manufacturer's recommended non-destructive testing Programs have been carried out, and (b) A signed declaration that the used travelling ride meets the Requirements in all manufacturer's safety and maintenance bulletins.
[am. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 21.] Application of this regulation to amusement rides and passenger Ropeways
53 (1) In order to operate an amusement ride or passenger ropeway an Individual is not required to have been trained in a training program Acceptable to a provincial safety manager until November 1, 2004.
(2) If a person holds an authorization under the Railway act To operate a recreational railway, this regulation does not require a Person to obtain either of the following until April 1, 2005:
(a) A contractor's licence of class rr in order to do regulated work with Respect to the recreational railway; (b) An operating permit for the recreational railway.
Hydraulic elevating devices 54 (1) In this section, "relief valve set pressure" Means set-to-open pressure, set-to-start-to-open pressure or the Static pressure increasingly applied in the inlet of a relief valve Installed in the hydraulic system of a hydraulic elevating device, and Is the pressure (a) At which the relief valve is set to start to open and allows only Drops of hydraulic fluid to pass, and (b) That must be exceeded in order for the relief valve to pass hydraulic Fluid back to the hydraulic fluid storage tank of the hydraulic System.
(2) In respect of a hydraulic elevating device, the following requirements Apply to relief valve systems:
(a) The relief valve set pressure must be the set pressure that is Required to meet the maximum flow capacity and maximum relieving Pressure requirements in paragraph (b); (b) The size of the relief valve and bypass must be sufficient to pass the Maximum flow capacity rated for the hydraulic pump and at the same Time raise the pressure above the working pressure by no more than 50% At that pump.
(3) Two or more relief valves may be used for the purposes of subsection (2) and must be (a) Designed with a means for sealing, and (b) Sealed after being set in accordance with subsection (2) (a).
(4) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch. s. 4.] [en. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 2, s. 18; am. b.c. reg. 164/2013, sch.
S. 4.]
Schedule
[en. b.c. reg. 184/2019, app. 2, s. 22.] Adopted codes and standards Standards setting bodies 1 In this schedule:
"ansi" Means the american national standards institute; "asme" Means the american society of mechanical engineers; "csa" Means the canadian standards association.
Interpreting codes and standards 2 For the purposes of interpretation of the codes and standards referred To in this schedule:
"bumper boats" Means an amusement ride that has boats (a) Equipped with an encircling buffer device, and (b) Designed to operate in an enclosed pool and to collide with each Other;
"bumper car" Means an amusement ride (a) That has passenger carrying units equipped with an encircling buffer Device and operated in an enclosed area consisting of a runway, and (b) In which the action of passengers may cause one passenger carrying Unit to collide with another; "circular ride" Means an amusement ride for which motion is primarily rotary in a Fixed or variable plane from horizontal to 45° above horizontal; "discharge area" Means the lower area of a waterslide or dry slide used for discharging Riders;
"dispatch area" Means the area of a waterslide or dry slide that is used for Dispatching riders; "dry slide" Means an amusement ride that consists of one or more inclined channels That do not contain water and on which a person slides down, with or Without a pad, from a height exceeding 4 m into a discharge area; "flume ride" Means an amusement ride using water as a means of conveyance; "kiddie automobile ride" Means a ride that replicates small automobiles that can be ridden only By children; "log flume ride" Means any flume ride that uses a "log" as a passenger transporter; "operator" Means a person who (a) Has direct control over the starting, stopping or speed of an Amusement ride or part of the ride, or (b) Is in charge of the entire operation of an amusement ride; "park ride" Means an amusement ride other than a travelling ride; "rotary ride" Means an amusement ride in which the passengers, by the action of Centrifugal force, are maintained against the inner wall of a rotating Vertical cylinder while at the same time the floor of the cylinder may Be lowered away from the feet of the passengers; "safety pin retainer" Means a device which retains in place a pin joint connection; "travelling ride" Means an amusement ride that is designed for repetitious erection and Dismantling;
"waterslide" Means any flume ride in which a transporter is not used.
Codes and standards adopted 3 The following codes and standards are adopted:
(a) Asme a17.1-2016/csa b44-16, "safety code for elevators and escalators" With the variations set out in sections 4 to 19 of this schedule, Except that (i) Sections 5.3, 5.4, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 7.10, 7.11 and 8.11 Of the code are not adopted, and (ii) 8.6.1.7.1, 8.6.7.3, 8.6.7.4 and 8.6.7.7 to 8.6.7.9 are not adopted; (b) National standard of canada can/csa-b311-02 with update no. 1 of june 2003, "safety code for manlifts"; (c) Csa b355-09, "lifts for persons with physical disabilities" with the Variation set out in section 20 of this schedule, except that (i) Clause 5.1.2 (b) and (d) is not adopted, and (ii) Annex b is mandatory; (d) National standard of canada can/csa z98-14, "passenger ropeways and Passenger conveyors", except that (i) Clause 4.12.4.2 is not adopted, and (ii) Annexes a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j and k are mandatory; (e) National standard of canada can/csa z185-m87 (r2001), "safety code for Personnel hoists", except that appendix a is mandatory; (f) Csa international z267-00, "safety code for amusement rides and Devices", except that appendices a and c are mandatory; (g) Asme a17.7-2007/csa b44.7-07, "performance-based safety code for Elevators and escalators"; (h) Ansi standard ansi a10.22-1990 (r1998), "safety requirements for Rope-guided and workers' hoists — american national standard for Construction and demolition operations".
Safety code for elevators and escalators 4  5.10.1.9.5 of asme a17.1-2016/csa b44-16, "safety code for Elevators and escalators" is repealed and the following substituted:
5.10.1.9.5 Openings of hoistway doors or gates from landing side.
All elevators used for construction or temporary elevators shall be Provided with hoistway doors and gate devices that comply with either Of the following:
(a) Interlocks conforming to 2.12.2; (b) Combination mechanical locks and electric contacts conforming to 2.12.3.
The mechanical locking device, when used on temporary doors, shall be Self-latching.
5  8.6.1.2.1 (e) is amended by adding the following to the end Of the paragraph:
In no case shall maintenance intervals exceed the lesser of 3 months and The manufacturer's specified limit.
6  8.6.1.2.2 (a) is amended by adding the following to the end Of the paragraph:
All other wiring schematics and diagrams relevant to the elevating Device shall be available with the elevating device.
7  8.6.1.4.1 (a) (3) is repealed and the following substituted:
(3) maintenance control program records shall be viewable on-site by Elevator personnel in both hard copy and electronic format, in a format Acceptable to a provincial safety manager, made available to that Authority or the owner on request of the authority or owner and shall Include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) site name and address; (b) contractor's name and licence number; (c) elevating device mechanic's name and certificate of qualification Number;
(d) unit number; (e) date of record; (f) a description of the maintenance task, interval, and associated Requirements of section 8.6; (g) indication of completion of maintenance task.
8  8.6.1.7 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.1.7 Periodic tests.
Periodic tests shall be performed as follows:
(a) Category 1 tests shall be performed annually; (b) Category 3 tests shall be performed every 3 years; (c) Category 5 tests shall be performed every 5 years.
9  8.6.1.7.2 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.1.7.2 Periodic test record.
A periodic test record for all periodic tests shall be kept as part of The maintenance control program record both in a log book and Electronically, to be available according to the requirements of 8.6.1.4.1 (a) (3), and including all of the following:
(a) The applicable code requirement(s) and date(s) performed; (b) The name of the person or firm performing the test; (c) All values recorded from periodic tests, including printed charts or Graphs;
(d) If any of the alternative test methods contained in 8.6.4.20 were Performed, an indication that alternative testing was utilized for the Applicable requirement.
10  8.6.4.1.1 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.4.1.1 Suspension and compensating means shall be kept sufficiently clean so That they can be visually inspected, and suspension means shall be (a) Inspected at intervals not exceeding 12 months, and (b) Replaced if they no longer conform to the applicable requirements of Asme a17.6.
11  8.6.4.2.1 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.4.2.1 Governor ropes shall be (a) Kept sufficiently clean so that they can be visually inspected, (b) Inspected at intervals not exceeding 12 months, and (c) Replaced if they no longer conform to the applicable requirements of Asme a17.6.
12  8.6.4.12.1 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.4.12.1 Governors shall be (a) Examined at intervals not exceeding 3 months to ensure that all seals Are intact, and (b) Manually operated to determine that all moving parts, including the Rope-grip jaws and switches, operate freely.
13  8.6.4.13.1 is amended by adding the following to the end of The clause:
Maintenance under this section shall be at intervals not exceeding 3 Months.
14  8.6.4.13.2 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.4.13.2 Kinetic energy and force limitation for automatic closing, horizontal Sliding car and hoistway doors or gates.
If a power-operated horizontally sliding door is closed by momentary Pressure or by automatic means, the closing kinetic energy and closing Force shall be maintained to conform to 2.13.4 and 2.13.5. if a data Plate conforming to 2.13.4.2.4 is not required, compliance with Appendix z is mandatory.
15  8.6.4.19.6 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.4.19.6 Firefighters' emergency operation.
Firefighters' emergency operation (phase i and ii) shall be tested to Determine conformance with the applicable requirements. phase i recall Shall be tested by simulating individual fire alarm initiating device Inputs to the elevator control, the three-position key switch at the Designated landing and, where provided, the two-position switch at the Building fire control station (part 6).
16  8.6.4.20.1 (a) is amended by striking out " Tests shall be made by tripping the governor by hand at the rated speed.
" and substituting " Except for type a safeties, tests shall be made by tripping the governor By hand at the rated speed. type a safeties may be tested at reduced Speeds.
".
17  8.6.5.7 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.5.7 Record of oil usage.
For systems for which part of either a cylinder or piping, or both, is Not exposed for visible examination, (a) Oil levels shall be verified at each maintenance visit by the Certified mechanic conducting the maintenance visit, (b) A written record shall be kept of the quantity of hydraulic fluid Added to the system and emptied from leakage collection containers and Pans, and the record kept in the machine room, and (c) When the quantity of hydraulic fluid loss cannot be accounted for, the Tests specified in 8.6.5.14.1 and 8.6.5.14.2 shall be made.
18  8.6.11.1 is repealed and the following substituted:
8.6.11.1 Firefighters' emergency operation.
All elevators provided with firefighters' emergency operation shall be Subjected annually, by authorized personnel, to phase i recall by use Of the key switch, and a minimum of one-floor operation on phase ii.
Deficiencies shall be corrected. a record of findings shall be Available to elevator personnel and the authority having jurisdiction.
19  the introductory paragraph in section 8.9 is amended by Striking out " New and existing equipment " and substituting " New and altered equipment ".
Lifts for persons with physical disabilities 20  clause b.2.2 of annex b of csa b355-09, "lifts for persons With physical disabilities" is repealed and the following Substituted:
B.2.2
Unless otherwise specified in this annex, the maintenance specified in Clause b.2.1 shall be carried out at intervals no longer than 3 Months.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Safety standards act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 39, ss. 8 and 88.]