B.c. reg. 14/2021 O.c. 37/2021 Deposited january 26, 2021 Effective february 5, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Professional governance act Engineers and geoscientists regulation [last amended february 10, 2023 by b.c. reg. 32/2023] Part 1 — definitions Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Professional governance act ; "former act" Means the Engineers and geoscientists act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 116; "protective purposes" Means the safety, health and welfare of the public, including the Protection of the environment and the promotion of health and safety In the workplace.
Part 2 — professional engineers Definitions in relation to professional engineering 2 In this part:
"engineering discipline" Means agricultural, biomedical, bioresource, biosystems, building, Chemical, civil, computer, electrical, environmental, food, forest, Geological, geomatics, industrial, marine, mechanical, mechatronics, Metallurgical, mining, naval architecture, nuclear, petroleum, Software and structural engineering and engineering physics; "practice of professional engineering" Means the provision of (a) Advice or services that are based on an engineering discipline, or (b) Advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a); "professional licensee engineering" Means a registrant who is authorized by the regulatory body to use the Title "professional licensee engineering".
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (a).] Regulated practice 3 For the purposes of the definition of "practice of professional Engineering" in section 5 [definitions in respect of the association of professional engineers And geoscientists of the province of british columbia] Of schedule 1 of the act, the practice of professional engineering is Prescribed.
Reserved titles 4 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) [reserved titles] Of the act, the following titles are reserved for the exclusive use of Registrants:
(a) "professional engineer"; (b) "professional licensee engineering"; (c) "engineer in training".
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (b).] Reserved practice 5 (1) For the purposes of section 51 (1) (b) [reserved practice] Of the act, the practice of professional engineering, as it relates to Matters that, having regard to the protective purposes, require the Experience or technical knowledge of a professional engineer or Professional licensee engineering, is a reserved practice that may Only be carried out by or under the supervision of a registrant.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the reserved practice under that Subsection includes the practice of professional engineering within The meaning of the former act as it read immediately before its Repeal.
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (b).] Part 3 — professional geoscientists Definitions in relation to professional geoscience 6 In this part:
"practice of professional geoscience" Means the provision of (a) Advice or services that (i) Are based on environmental geoscience, geology, geophysics or Geochemistry, and (ii) Relate to the discovery or development of oil, natural gas, coal, Metallic or non-metallic minerals, precious stones, other natural Resources or water or the investigation of surface or subsurface Geological conditions; (b) Advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a); "professional licensee geoscience" Means a registrant who is authorized by the regulatory body to use the Title "professional licensee geoscience".
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (c).] Regulated practice 7 For the purposes of the definition of "practice of professional Geoscience" in section 5 [definitions in respect of the association of professional engineers And geoscientists of the province of british columbia] Of schedule 1 of the act, the practice of professional geoscience is Prescribed.
Reserved titles 8 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) [reserved titles] Of the act, the following titles are reserved for the exclusive use of Registrants:
(a) "professional geoscientist"; (b) "professional licensee geoscience"; (c) "geoscientist in training".
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (d).] Reserved practice 9 (1) For the purposes of section 51 (1) (b) [reserved practice] Of the act, the practice of professional geoscience, as it relates to Matters that, having regard to the protective purposes, require the Experience or technical knowledge of a professional geoscientist or Professional licensee geoscience, is a reserved practice that may only Be carried out by or under the supervision of a registrant.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the reserved practice under that Subsection includes the practice of professional geoscience within the Meaning of the former act as it read immediately before its repeal.
[am. b.c. reg. 32/2023, sch. b, s. 5 (d).] Part 4 — general Registration of firms 10 For the purposes of section 3 [application to firms as registrants] Of the act, the regulatory body is authorized to register firms in That regulatory body as registrants.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional governance act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 47, ss. 118 and 119.]