B.c. reg. 302/2010 M284/2010
Deposited october 19, 2010 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to point in time Clean energy act Exempt projects, programs, contracts And expenditures regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 227/2011, december 8, 2011] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Clean energy act ; "altagas northwest projects umbrella agreement" Means the agreement, dated may 28, 2010, between coast mountain hydro Limited partnership and the transmission corporation; "fk project" Has the same meaning as in the altagas northwest projects umbrella Agreement;
"mclymont project" Has the same meaning as in the altagas northwest projects umbrella Agreement;
"volcano project" Has the same meaning as in the altagas northwest projects umbrella Agreement.
[am. b.c. reg. 227/2011, s. (a).] Northwest transmission line 2 For the purposes of sections 7 and 8 of the act, the northwest Transmission line is further described as including the following:
(a) The agreement, dated may 28, 2010, between coast mountain hydro Limited partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and Sale of electricity generated at the fk project; (a.1) The agreement, dated november 2, 2011, between coast mountain hydro Limited partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and Sale of electricity generated at the mclymont project; (a.2) The agreement, dated november 2, 2011, between coast mountain hydro Limited partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and Sale of electricity generated at the volcano project; (b) The altagas northwest projects umbrella agreement; (c) A substation in the vicinity of bob quinn lake and related facilities And equipment, including communication, voltage support and protection And control equipment; (d) 287 kilovolt transmission circuits and related facilities between the Authority's substation at skeena and the substation referred to in Paragraph (c); (e) The following activities related to the substation, facilities and Equipment referred to in paragraph (c) and the circuits and facilities Referred to in paragraph (d), whether or not the substation or Circuits are completed or put into service:
(i) Constructing, operating, maintaining and administrating; (ii) Acquiring or holding rights-of-way, permits, licences, certificates, Consents and other authorizations; (iii) Engineering and procuring; (iv) Negotiating, entering into and carrying out agreements with first Nations;
(v) Demobilizing and decommissioning; (vi) Securing financing.
[am. b.c. reg. 227/2011, s. (b).] Agreements with pulp and paper customers 3 For the purposes of sections 7 and 8 of the act, the agreements with Pulp and paper customers eligible for funding under canada's green Transformation program are further described as including the Following:
(a) Electricity purchasing agreements, under which the authority may Acquire, in aggregate, up to 1 200 gigawatt hours per year of energy; (b) Incentive funding agreements, under which the authority may provide an Incentive payment for energy efficiency projects to acquire, in Aggregate, up to 200 gigawatt hours per year of energy savings; (c) Customer-funded project agreements, under which customers agree to Implement energy efficiency projects without an incentive payment from The authority; (d) Umbrella agreements that create a contractual link between the Agreements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).
Exemption
4 The authority is exempt from section 44.2 (2) of the Utilities commission act With respect to the agreements referred to in section 3 (b) of this Regulation.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Clean energy act , s.b.c. 2010, c. 22, section 37]