B.c. reg. 466/83 O.c. 1938/83 Deposited december 12, 1983 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Farmers and womens institutes act Farmers and womens institutes act regulation [last amended march 30, 2022 by b.c.reg. 76/2022] Incorporation and name 1 (1) The superintendent of farmers' institutes shall, after receiving the Constitution and bylaws submitted by the subscribers, incorporate the Institute by placing the words "incorporated under the Farmers and womens institutes act " on the original version of the constitution followed by his Signature.
(2) The constitution shall be signed by at least 5 subscribers and those Signatures shall be witnessed.
(3) The superintendent shall not incorporate an institute unless its Proposed name includes the words "farmers' institute" or "women's Institute" as the case may be.
[am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 7.] Constitution and bylaws 2 (1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 12, the constitution and bylaws Of an institute shall be those set out in schedules 1 and 2 Respectively.
(2) The subscribers of an institute may submit a constitution or bylaws That differ from those in schedules 1 and 2 and, where the Superintendent considers that the constitution or bylaws are Consistent with the spirit of the act, the superintendent may Incorporate the institute and the constitution and bylaws of it shall Be those submitted by the subscribers.
[am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, s. 6.] Motto and colours 3 The motto of the women's institutes is "for home and country" and the Colours are green, white and gold.
District institutes 4 (1) A district institute shall consist of all of the farmers' or women's Institutes located within the geographical area designated under Section 25 (1) of the act.
(2) Members of a district institute need not pay a fee to that district Institute.
Voting at meetings of district institutes 5 A member of a local institute may vote at a meeting of a district Institute within whose district the local institute is located.
Membership fee 6 The bylaws of an institute, other than a district institute, shall Provide that an annual membership fee of at least 50¢ is payable (a) At the beginning of each fiscal year for existing members, and (b) At the time of becoming a member, for new members.
Directors' meetings 7 The directors shall hold a directors' meeting once every 3 months Unless it is impractical to do so.
Annual general meeting 8 The annual general meeting of an institute shall be held not later Than 3 months after the end of the fiscal year.
Annual reports 9 (1) The secretary of each farmers' institute shall file an annual report To the superintendent, on the form provided by the superintendent, Within 7 days after the annual general meeting.
(2) The secretary of each women's institute shall deliver an annual report To the secretary treasurer of the british columbia provincial board of The b.c. women's institute, on the form provided by the Superintendent, within 7 days after the annual general meeting, And the secretary shall file all of the annual reports with the Superintendent.
[am. b.c. reg. 76/2022, ss. 8 and 11.] Inspection of books and accounts 10 Each member of an institute, the superintendent or a person designated By the superintendent has the right to inspect the records of the Institute.
Ministerial assistance 11 The minister may refuse to provide assistance to an institute where it Has contravened the act or this regulation.
Transitional
12 (1) Where, at the time this regulation comes into force, an institute had A constitution or bylaws in the standard form that was issued by the Superintendent at the time it was incorporated and that constitution Or those bylaws have not been amended since the institute's Incorporation, that institute shall, on the coming into force of this Regulation, be deemed to have a constitution and bylaws as set out in Schedules 1 and 2 in place of its existing constitution and Bylaws.
(2) Where, after its incorporation, an institute has amended its Constitution, that constitution shall remain in force in the form that It was amended.
(3) Where, after its incorporation, an institute has amended its bylaws, Those bylaws shall remain in force in the form that they were amended.
[am. b.c. reg. 209/84, s. 1.] Schedule 1
Constitution
We, the undersigned, hereby declare that we desire to form an institute Under the Farmers and womens institutes act , r.s.b.c., 1996, c. 133, and that (1) the name of the institute is ".........................................................................................
Institute."
(2) the objects of the institute are as follows:
(a) to improve conditions of rural life so that settlement may be Permanent and prosperous; (b) to promote the theory and practice of agriculture; (c) to arrange on behalf of its members for the purchase, distribution Or sale of commodities, supplies or products; (d) to act generally on behalf of its members in all matters incidental To agricultural pursuits and rural development; (e) to promote home economics, public health, child welfare, education And better schools.
(3) the operations of the institute are to be chiefly carried on in ........................................................
.......................................................................................................................................................
Full name Address
Occupation
Subscriber
Witness
Subscriber
Witness
Subscriber
Witness
Subscriber
Witness
Subscriber
Witness
Date:
.........................................................................................
Schedule 2
[am. b.c. regs. 209/84, s. 2; 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.] Bylaws
Of
...............................................................................................................................................
Institute.
Membership
1 (1) The members of the institute are the subscribers of the constitution And the persons admitted to membership in accordance with these Bylaws.
(2) Every person desiring to become a member of the institute shall (a) Apply to the secretary, (b) Agree to conform to and abide by the bylaws of the institute and Regulations made under the Farmers and womens institutes act , and (c) Pay the annual membership dues.
(3) A family is entitled to join a farmers' institute as a family, but Only one adult member of the family is entitled to vote at a meeting Of the institute.
Membership fees and voting 2 (1) Each member shall pay an annual fee of 50¢ payable (a) At the beginning of each fiscal year for existing members, and (b) At the time of becoming a member, for new members.
(2) A member whose annual membership fee is unpaid is not entitled to hold Office as a director or officer or to vote at any general meeting.
(3) A member is not entitled to vote by proxy.
(4) A new member is not entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Institute until the new member has been a member of the institute for At least 14 days.
Funds
3 The funds of the institute shall be devoted solely to the promotion of The objects of the institute as set out in the constitution.
Fiscal year 4 (1) Subject to subsection (2), the fiscal year of an institute commences On january 1 and ends on december 31.
(2) The fiscal year of a local women's institute commences on September 1 and ends on august 31.
Directors and officers 5 (1) Each institute shall have at least 5 directors including the president And the vice president.
(2) The president, the vice president and the other directors shall be Elected at the annual general meeting of the institute and the vote Shall be by a show of hands, unless a majority of members present Require the vote to be by secret ballot.
(3) The president, the vice president and the other directors hold office Until the end of the annual general meeting at which their successors Are elected.
(4) The directors may appoint a secretary and a treasurer who need not be Directors.
(5) The remuneration, if any, of the secretary and treasurer shall be Determined by the institute at a general meeting.
(6) The president shall preside at all meetings of the directors and of The institute, and when the president is absent or unable or unwilling To act the vice president shall act in the president's place.
(7) Casual vacancies among the officers or directors shall be filled by The remaining directors until the next annual general meeting, and the Secretary shall notify (a) The superintendent, in the case of a farmers' institute, or (b) The provincial secretary treasurer, in the case of a women's Institute,
Of all casual vacancies that have been filled.
(8) In any case where the secretary or treasurer ceases to act, the President or vice president shall perform the secretary's or Treasurer's duties until the vacancy is filled.
(9) The quorum at a meeting of directors shall be not less than half the Total number of directors.
(10) The directors control the affairs of the institute and shall outline The work and the policies of the institute and present the policies to The members for their approval.
Borrowing power 6 The directors shall not borrow moneys in the name of the institute Without an extraordinary resolution approving the borrowing.
Duties of secretary 7 The secretary shall (a) Keep minutes of all meetings, (b) Conduct the correspondence of the institute, (c) Keep a register of the members, with their names and addresses, and (d) Prepare and forward reports to (i) The superintendent, in the case of a farmers' institute, or (ii) The provincial secretary treasurer, in the case of a women's institute On forms supplied by the superintendent.
Duties of treasurer 8 (1) The treasurer or the secretary of the institute shall, at each general Meeting, account for all moneys paid or received by the institute and Present a report to the members present, but no disbursements shall be Made without the permission of the directors.
(2) The treasurer or the secretary shall prepare the annual financial Statements of the institute made up to the end of the fiscal year.
Annual and general meetings 9 (1) The president or any 2 directors may convene a general meeting, and on A meeting being convened the secretary shall notify all members of the Time and place where the meeting shall be held.
(2) The secretary shall give 7 clear days notice in writing of the date, Time and place of every annual or general meeting to every member at The member's recorded address and the secretary shall, when directed By the directors, advertise the meeting by the means that the Directors determine.
(3) If an annual or general meeting is not held on the day specified in The notice calling it, it shall stand adjourned to the same day in the Following week at the same time and place, and if it be not then held, The directors shall call a fresh meeting.
(4) At an annual or general meeting the quorum is 5 members.
(5) At the annual general meeting the institute shall elect an auditor.
(6) The directors shall, at the annual general meeting, present a written Annual report of the affairs of the institute for the past year Stating the number of meetings of the institute and the attendance at Each, and be accompanied by a financial statement to the end of the Fiscal year, audited and certified by the auditor.
(7) The secretary shall forward a copy of the annual report and the Financial statement to the superintendent after it has been presented, Together with a list of the directors and officers who were elected at The meeting.
(8) The order of proceedings at an annual general meeting shall, according To circumstances, be as follows:
(a) Call to order; (b) Reading of convening notice; (c) Reading and disposing of minutes of preceding meeting; (d) Business arising out of minutes; (e) Reports of standing and special committees; (f) Reports of directors and auditors; (g) Election of directors and auditors; (h) Special business; (i) Unfinished business; (j) New business.
Expulsion
10 (1) The institute may expel from membership, on a 3/4 majority vote of the Members present at a general meeting, any member against whom an Allegation has been made of conduct that is detrimental to the Institute.
(2) The allegation shall be in writing and be signed by at least 2 members In good standing and the member against whom the charge has been made Shall be given at least 2 weeks notice in writing of the time and Place when and where the matter will be considered by the institute.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) apply to the expulsion of officers and Directors.
Custody of seal, records and other books of the institute 11 (1) The records and other books of the institute shall be in the custody Of the secretary or treasurer and may be inspected by the directors or By any person appointed by the superintendent.
(2) The records and books of the institute may be inspected by members at The close of any general meeting.
Amendment of bylaws 12 (1) These bylaws may not be altered or added to except by an extraordinary Resolution of the institute.
(2) Where an institute amends its bylaws, it shall submit a copy of the Amendment to the superintendent for the superintendent's approval.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Farmers and womens institutes act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 133, s. 30.]