B.c. reg. 319/2006 O.c. 905/2006 Deposited december 4, 2006 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Forest act Forest revenue audit regulation [last amended june 12, 2023 by b.c. reg. 143/2023] Interpretation
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Forest act .
Category of record 2 The following are the categories of records that must be kept for the Period established under section 142.3 of the act:
(a) Records that relate to the ownership of timber or the right to harvest Timber;
(b) Records that relate to the harvesting of timber; (c) Records that relate to the transportation or possession of timber; (d) Records that relate to dealing in or the acquisition or disposition of Timber;
(e) Records that relate to the scaling of timber; (f) Records that relate to the ownership or operation of a scale site; (g) Records that relate to the ownership or operation of a timber Processing facility; (h) Records that relate to the removal from british columbia of timber or Wood residue.
[am. b.c. reg. 143/2023, sch. 2, s. 1.] Class of persons 3 The requirement to provide information or records under section 142.31 (1) of the act may be imposed in any circumstances on a person within Any of the following classes of persons:
(a) Persons, other than the government, who (i) Own or have a right to harvest timber at the time the demand notice is Served under that section of the act, or (ii) Owned or had a right to harvest timber at any time within the 6 year Period immediately before the demand notice is served under that Section of the act; (b) Persons who harvest timber or who harvested timber within the 6 year Period immediately before the demand notice is served under that Section of the act; (c) Persons who transport or are in possession of timber or who Transported or were in possession of timber within the 6 year period Immediately before the demand notice is served under that section of The act; (d) Persons who deal in, acquire or dispose of timber or who dealt in, Acquired or disposed of timber within the 6 year period immediately Before the demand notice is served under that section of the act; (e) Persons who perform or purport to perform a scale of timber or who Performed or purported to perform a scale of timber within the 6 year Period immediately before the demand notice is served under that Section of the act; (f) Persons who own or operate a scale site or who owned or operated a Scale site within the 6 year period immediately before the demand Notice is served under that section of the act; (g) Persons who own or operate a timber processing facility or who owned Or operated a timber processing facility within the 6 year period Immediately before the demand notice is served under that section of The act; (h) Persons who hold permits referred to in section 129 (b) of the act or Who, within the 6 year period immediately before the demand notice is Served under section 142.31 (1) of the act, held permits referred to In section 129 (b) of the act; (i) Persons who have done any of the following within the 6 year period Immediately before the demand notice is served under that section of The act:
(i) Removed from british columbia timber or wood residue; (ii) Arranged or facilitated, for compensation or reward, the removal from British columbia of timber or wood residue.
[am. b.c. reg. 143/2023, sch. 2, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Forest act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 157, s. 142.94.]