B.c. reg. 15/2021 O.c. 38/2021 Deposited january 26, 2021 Effective february 5, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Professional governance act Forest professionals regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Professional governance act ; "practice of professional forestry" Means the provision of (a) Advice or services in relation to trees, forests, forest lands, forest Resources, forest ecosystems or forest transportation systems, or (b) Advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph (a); "protective purposes" Means the safety, health and welfare of the public, including the Protection of the environment and the promotion of health and safety In the workplace.
Regulated practice 2 For the purposes of the definition of "practice of professional Forestry" in section 6 [definitions in respect of the association of british columbia Forest professionals] Of schedule 1 of the act, the practice of professional forestry Is prescribed.
Reserved title 3 For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a) [exclusivity of reserved titles] Of the act, the following titles are reserved for the exclusive use of Registrants:
(a) "professional forester"; (b) "forester in training"; (c) "registered forest technologist"; (d) "trainee forest technologist"; (e) "accredited timber cruiser"; (f) "accredited timber evaluator"; (g) "silvicultural accredited surveyor".
Reserved practice 4 (1) For the purposes of section 51 (1) (b) [reserved practice] Of the act, the practice of professional forestry, as it relates to Matters that, having regard to the protective purposes, require the Experience or technical knowledge of a registered professional Forester or registered forest technologist, is a reserved practice That may only be carried out by or under the supervision of a Registrant.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the reserved practice under that Subsection includes the practice of professional forestry within the Meaning of the Foresters act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 19, as it read immediately before its Repeal.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional governance act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 47, ss. 118 and 119.]