B.C. Reg. 165/96
O.C. 691/96
Deposited June 28, 1996
effective August 1, 1996
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Foreign Money Claims Act
Foreign Money Claims Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Foreign Money Claims Act
;
"currency jurisdiction"
means, in respect of a foreign money judgment, the country in the
currency of which the judgment was awarded;
"determination date"
means, in respect of any calculation of interest that is to be added
to or that has accrued on a foreign money judgment, the date on which
that calculation is made;
"foreign money judgment"
means a judgment to which section 1 of the Act applies;
"foreign prime rate"
means the interest rate in effect from time to time in a country other
than Canada that, for that country, is most closely analogous to the
rate of interest referred to in section 7 (1) of the
Court Order Interest Act
;
"periodical"
means a publication published weekly or more frequently that is
available, or can be made available, in British Columbia;
"Table"
means Table 60p of the International Financial Statistics published
from time to time by the International Monetary Fund.
Foreign prime rate to be applied
2
(1)
If, on one or more days in a calendar month, interest is to be added
to or to accrue on a foreign money judgment under Part 1 or 2 of
the
Court Order Interest Act
, the interest rate at which that interest is calculated must be the
foreign prime rate applicable to that calendar month.
(2)
For the purpose of subsection (1), the following is evidence of the
foreign prime rate applicable to a calendar month:
(a)
the rate that is, before the determination date, published in the
Table as being the rate applicable to the currency jurisdiction for
the calendar month;
(b)
if paragraph (a) does not apply, the rate that is, before the
determination date, published in the Table as being the rate
applicable to the currency jurisdiction for the calendar quarter in
which the calendar month falls;
(c)
if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply, the rate that is, before the
determination date, published in the Table as being the rate
applicable to the currency jurisdiction for the calendar year in which
the calendar month falls;
(d)
if paragraphs (a) to (c) do not apply, the rate that is, before the
determination date, published in a periodical as being the rate
applicable to the currency jurisdiction for the calendar month and, if
the parties propose different rates that comply with this paragraph,
the proposed rate that has been most recently published;
(e)
if paragraphs (a) to (d) do not apply, the most current monthly rate
published in the Table that is applicable to the currency
jurisdiction.
Enforcement process
3
(1)
A person having a claim to payment of money owing under a foreign
money judgment who wishes to enforce that claim in a manner
contemplated by the
Court Order Enforcement Act
must convert the amount owing under the foreign money judgment into
Canadian currency in the manner provided under section 1 (1) of the
Foreign Money Claims Act
and the conversion date for that purpose must be the business day
preceding the day on which a record is filed in a court to initiate
that manner of enforcement.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply to the registration of a judgment at a
land title office under section 88 of the
Court Order Enforcement Act
.
[Provisions of the
Foreign Money Claims Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 155, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 3]
