B.c. reg. 183/59 O.c. 1171/59 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to point in time Local services act General regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 4/2010, january 14, 2010] Whereas it is considered desirable and expedient that community Planning be available throughout the province of british columbia to Ensure orderly development; And whereas, pursuant to the provisions of the Local services act , the lieutenant governor in council may, upon the recommendation of The minister, establish any area of the province not incorporated as a City, town, village or district municipality as a local area for the Preparation of community plans by the application of Divisions (1) and (6) of part xxi of the Municipal act 1 And the regulation of land use, zoning, subdivision control and the Construction of buildings or structures of any kind by the application Of divisions (2), (3), (4) and (5) of part xxi of the Municipal act 1 ; And whereas pursuant to the provisions of the Town planning act 2 , certain areas of the province were established as regulated areas For the purpose of community planning; And whereas under the provisions of the Local services act , certain areas of the province were established as local areas for The purpose of community planning; And whereas the said regulated areas and local areas should be Included within the local area established by this order; 1 Pursuant to sections 2 (a) and (k) and 3 of the Local services act , all those lands lying within the territorial limits of the province Of british columbia, save and except those portions thereof which lie Within the corporate limits of a city, town, village or district Municipality are established as a local area under the name of "provincial community planning local area" for the following purposes:
(a) The preparation of community plans by the application of Divisions (1) and (6) of part xxi of the Municipal act 1 ; (b) The regulation of land use, zoning, subdivision control and Construction of buildings or structures of any kind by the application Of divisions (2), (3), (4) and (5) of part xxi of the Municipal act 1 .
2 The minister may designate any area of the said provincial community Planning local area as a community planning area wherein regulations For community planning may be imposed and may extend, alter or Dissolve such community planning areas and may merge two or more such Community planning areas.
[am. b.c. reg. 4/2010, s. 2.] 3 The regulations authorized to be imposed by the said minister in any Such community planning area shall be deemed to be those authorized Under divisions (1) to (6), inclusive, of part xxi of the Municipal act 1 , and the minister may make specific regulations for each community Planning area.
4-5 Spent.
6 The zoning board of appeal of each of the said regulated areas or Local areas is hereby dissolved and reconstituted the zoning board of Appeal of the corresponding community planning area established under This order, and the members of the said zoning board of appeal shall Continue in office until the expiry of the term of their respective Appointments.
7 The zoning boards of appeal of the said re-established community Planning areas shall have the duties and powers of zoning boards of Appeal constituted pursuant to the provisions of division (3) of Part xxi of the Municipal act 3 .
1.
References are to divisions (1) to (6) of part xxi of s.b.c. 1957, C. 42.
2.
Reference is to Town planning act , r.s.b.c. 1948, c. 339 3.
Reference is to division (3) of part xxi of s.b.c. 1957, c. 42.
[provisions of the Local services act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 276, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Sections 2 and 3]