B.c. reg. 58/2022 O.c. 127/2022 Deposited march 11, 2022 Effective april 1, 2022 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Public interest disclosure act Government body designation (public interest Disclosure) regulation [last amended december 1, 2023 by b.c. reg. 245/2023] Designation of government bodies and heads of government bodies 1 For the purposes of the definitions of "government body" and "head" in Section 1 of the Public interest disclosure act , (a) An organization listed in column 1 of the schedule is designated a Government body, and (b) A person listed in column 2 of the schedule is designated the head of The government body listed opposite in column 1.
Prescribed classes of employees 2 (1) In this section:
"health facility" Means a health facility that is usually operated by a specified body; "registrant" Means a registrant as defined in section 1 of the Health professions act ; "specified body" Means any of the following:
(a) A regional health authority designated under the Health authorities act ; (b) The british columbia emergency health services, a corporation Continued under the Emergency health services act ; (c) The forensic psychiatric services commission, a corporation continued Under the Forensic psychiatry act ; (d) The providence health care society, a society as defined in Section 1 of the Societies act ; (e) The provincial health services authority, a society as defined in Section 1 of the Societies act .
(2) For the purposes of the definition of "employee" In section 1 of the Public interest disclosure act , the following classes of persons are prescribed:
(a) Members of government bodies designated in the schedule to this Regulation who exercise an adjudicative function of a tribunal; (b) Registrants
(i) When they are receiving training or providing services at a health Facility, or (ii) When they are receiving training or providing services through a Website, online service or similar electronic application on behalf of A health facility.
[en. b.c. reg. 131/2023, sch. 2, s. 1.] School board trustees 3 For certainty, director within the meaning of the Public interest disclosure act Does not include a trustee of a board of education established under Part 4 of the School act .
[en. b.c. reg. 245/2023, s. 1.] Schedule
[am. b.c. regs. 243/2022; 253/2022, s. 6; 131/2023, sch. 1 and sch. 2, S. 2; 187/2023, sch., s. 4; 245/2023, s. 2 (b).] Column 1
Government body Column 2
Head of government body 0838465 b.c. ltd.
President
0839565 b.c. ltd.
President
Bc assessment President and chief executive officer Bc council for international education Executive director Bc family maintenance agency Chief executive officer Bc financial services authority (bcfsa) Chief executive officer Bc games society President
Bc housing Chief executive officer Bc infrastructure benefits President and chief executive officer Bc pavilion corporation President and chief executive officer Bc transit President and chief executive officer Bcr properties ltd.
President and chief executive officer British columbia emergency health services President and chief executive officer, provincial health services Authority
British columbia energy regulator Chief executive officer British columbia energy regulator Commissioner
British columbia farm industry review board Chair
British columbia hydro and power authority President and chief executive officer British columbia investment management corp.
Chief executive officer British columbia lottery corporation Chair
British columbia railway company President and chief executive officer British columbia review board Chair
British columbia safety authority President and lead executive officer British columbia securities commission Chair
British columbia utilities commission Chair
Building code appeal board Chair
Civil resolution tribunal Chair
Columbia basin trust President and chief executive officer Columbia power corporation President and chief executive officer Community care and assisted living appeal board Chair
Community living british columbia Chief executive officer Creative bc Chief executive officer Destination british columbia President and chief executive officer Economic trust of the southern interior Chief executive officer Employment and assistance appeal tribunal Chair
Employment standards tribunal Chair
Energy resource appeal tribunal Chair
Environmental appeal board Chair
Financial services tribunal Chair
First peoples' cultural council Chief executive officer Forensic psychiatric services commission President and chief executive officer, provincial health services Authority
Forest appeals commission Chair
Forest practices board Chair
Forestry innovation investment ltd.
President and chief executive officer Fraser health authority President and chief executive officer Haida gwaii management council Chair
Health professions review board Chair
Hospital appeal board Chair
Human rights tribunal Chair
Infrastructure bc (partnerships british columbia inc.) President and chief executive officer Innovate bc President and chief executive officer Insurance corporation of british columbia President and chief executive officer Insurance council of british columbia Chief executive officer Interior health authority President and chief executive officer Island coastal economic trust Chief executive officer Knowledge network Chief executive officer Labour relations board Chair
Legal aid bc Chief executive officer Mental health review board Chair
Northern development initiative trust Chief executive officer Northern health authority President and chief executive officer Office of the british columbia container trucking commissioner British columbia container trucking commissioner Passenger transportation board Chair
Property assessment appeal board Chair
Providence health care society President and chief executive officer Provincial agricultural land commission Chair
Provincial health services authority President and chief executive officer Public guardian and trustee Public guardian and trustee Royal british columbia museum Chief executive officer Safety standards appeal board Chair
School boards (each board) under the School act Superintendent of schools Skilledtradesbc
Chief executive officer Skilled trades bc appeal board Chair
Surface rights board Chair
Transportation investment corporation President and chief executive officer Vancouver coastal health authority President and chief executive officer Vancouver island health authority President and chief executive officer Vancouver wharves ltd.
President
Victoria regional transit commission Chair
Workers' compensation appeal tribunal Chair
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Public interest disclosure act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 22, s. 48.]