B.C. Reg. 173/90
O.C. 821/90
Deposited June 5, 1990
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Local Government Act
Greater Vancouver
Regional District Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 49/99]
Emergency telephone 911 service
1
The Greater Vancouver Regional District is granted the additional
power to operate an E 9-1-1 emergency telephone system as an extended
service.
Radio frequency coordination service
2
The Greater Vancouver Regional District is granted the additional
power to provide municipal radio frequency coordination as an extended
service.
[en. B.C. Reg. 195/91.]
Financing of GVWD and GVSⅅ undertakings
3
(1)
Subject to this section, the Greater Vancouver Regional District may
finance undertakings of the Greater Vancouver Water District and the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District on the request and at
the sole cost of the applicable district.
(2)
For an undertaking to be financed under this section,
(a)
in the case of the Greater Vancouver Water District, it must be an
undertaking for which the Board of that district has adopted a
resolution or bylaw under the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, and
(b)
in the case of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District,
it must be an undertaking for which the Board of that district has
adopted a resolution or bylaw under the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
.
(3)
The power under this section may not be exercised unless the district
whose undertaking is being financed
(a)
provides to the Greater Vancouver Regional District security in the
form of a debenture or another form of indebtedness, and
(b)
has entered into an agreement with the Greater Vancouver Regional
District which provides that
(i)
the district whose undertaking is being financed will provide and pay
over to the Greater Vancouver Regional District the sums required to
discharge its obligations in accordance with the terms of the
debenture or other form of indebtedness, and
(ii)
if the sums provided for in the debenture or other form of
indebtedness are not sufficient to meet the obligations of the Greater
Vancouver Regional District in relation to the financing, the
deficiency is a liability of the district whose undertaking is being
financed to the Greater Vancouver Regional District.
(4)
For the purpose of providing financing under this regulation, the
board of the Greater Vancouver Regional District may adopt a security
issuing bylaw without adopting a loan authorization bylaw.
(5)
A security issuing bylaw under subsection (4) must state as its
authorization the applicable bylaw or resolution referred to in
subsection (2).
[en. B.C. Reg. 392/95.]
Financing of GVTA undertakings
4
(1)
The Greater Vancouver Regional District may borrow and provide
financing for the purposes and in the manner specified in this section
for the Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority established under
section 2 of the
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
.
(2)
The Greater Vancouver Regional District may only act under subsection
(1) if
(a)
the Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority has first passed a
resolution requesting the financing, and
(b)
the Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority and the Greater
Vancouver Regional District enter into an agreement specifying that
the Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority will
(i)
pay to the Greater Vancouver Regional District all costs of the
Greater Vancouver Regional District associated with the borrowing, and
(ii)
if requested by the Greater Vancouver Regional District, deliver to
the Greater Vancouver Regional District security in the form of
debentures, securities or other form of indebtedness sufficient for
the Greater Vancouver Regional District to meet and discharge all
obligations of the Greater Vancouver Regional District associated with
the borrowing.
(3)
For the purposes of a borrowing under this section
(a)
the board of the Greater Vancouver Regional District may adopt a
security issuing bylaw without adopting a loan authorization bylaw,
and
(b)
a security issuing bylaw under paragraph (a) must reference the
applicable resolution referred to in subsection (2) (a).
[en. B.C. Reg. 49/99.]
Application of
Local Government Act
provisions to borrowings
5
Sections 336, 470 and 476 of the
Local Government Act
1
apply for the purposes of borrowing by the Greater Vancouver Regional
District to provide financing under section 3 or 4.
[en. B.C. Reg. 49/99.]
1.
R.S.B.C. 1996-323-470 and 476, repealed by 1999-37-108.
[Provisions of the
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 799]
