B.C. Reg. 377/2007
O.C. 768/2007
Deposited November 23, 2007
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Local Government Act
Greater Vancouver Regional District
Regional Growth Strategy Exemption Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Local Government Act
;
"Green Zone map"
means the map labelled "Green Zone" in the Livable Region Strategic
Plan, a copy of which is attached as Schedule A;
"jurisdiction"
means a municipality or an electoral area in the Greater Vancouver
Regional District;
"Livable Region Strategic Plan"
means the Livable Region Strategic Plan adopted by the board of the
Greater Vancouver Regional District on January 26, 1996 and deemed to
be a regional growth strategy February 26, 1996 by Ministerial Order
096/96.
Exemption — regional growth strategy
2
(1)
Despite sections 853 to 862 of the Act, the Greater Vancouver Regional
District may, by bylaw, amend the designation of an area of land
identified in the Green Zone map as
(a)
a Green Zone Area,
(b)
Agricultural Lands in the Green Zone, or
(c)
an Area under municipal consideration.
(2)
The board of the Greater Vancouver Regional District may amend a
designation under subsection (1) only if
(a)
in the opinion of the board, the amendment is consistent with
protecting Greater Vancouver's natural assets, including major parks,
watersheds, ecologically important areas and farmlands, as set out in
the Livable Region Strategic Plan, and
(b)
the board meets the requirements under this regulation.
Land use designation amending bylaw
3
(1)
The board may not give first reading to an amending bylaw under
section 2 unless a jurisdiction submits to the board a request that an
amendment be made under this regulation, with a description of the
land for which the amendment is requested, as follows:
(a)
if the proposed amendment affects land in a municipality, by
resolution of the council of the municipality;
(b)
if the proposed amendment affects land in an electoral area, by
written request of the electoral area director for the electoral area;
(c)
if the proposed amendment affects land in 2 or more jurisdictions, by
resolution or written request from each jurisdiction, in accordance
with paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be, requesting those
amendments that apply to land in that jurisdiction.
(2)
Before third reading of an amending bylaw under subsection (1) the
board must conduct a public hearing in accordance with the Regional
Growth Strategy (Public Hearing) Regulation and any additional terms
and conditions established by the minister under section 5, that
provides an opportunity for individuals and organizations to make
their views known regarding the proposed amending bylaw.
(3)
An amending bylaw may be enacted under this section only if
(a)
the description in the bylaw for the land subject to the amended
designation is that described in the resolution or request submitted
under subsection (1), and
(b)
it is adopted by at least 2/3 of the votes cast.
Consequential amendments to regional policy statements
4
(1)
If a proposed amendment creates a need for a consequential amendment
to the regional context statement of a proposing municipality's
official community plan, the municipality may set out the proposed
consequential amendment in the resolution submitted to the board under
section 3.
(2)
Despite section 866 (4) to (7) of the Act, if the board adopts an
amending bylaw based on a resolution that includes a consequential
amendment to the regional context statement, that amendment is not
required to be accepted under section 866 (1) of the Act.
Additional terms and conditions
5
The minister may establish
(a)
terms and conditions respecting the procedure to be used for public
hearings under section 3 (2), and
(b)
any other terms and conditions the minister considers appropriate
regarding the consideration or adoption of an amending bylaw under
this regulation.
Schedule A
The map in Schedule A is not included in this publication. It can be
seen on page 28 of the Livable Region Strategic Plan at:
http://www.metrovancouver.org/about/publications/Publications/LRSP.pdf
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, section 799]
