B.c. reg. 102/2012 O.c. 295/2012 Deposited may 15, 2012 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Clean energy act Greenhouse gas reduction (clean energy) regulation [last amended july 10, 2023 by b.c. reg. 175/2023] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Clean energy act ; "annual percentage change" Means the annual percentage change in the annual average all-items Consumer price index for british columbia, as published by statistics Canada under the authority of the Statistics act (canada); "farm tractor" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act ; "fiscal year" Means the period from april 1 in one year to march 31 in the Next year; "former regulation" Means the greenhouse gas reduction (clean energy) regulation as it Read immediately before may 22, 2023; "implement of husbandry" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act ; "industrial utility vehicle" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act ; "light-duty vehicle" Means a vehicle with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 3 856 kg or less; "logging truck" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the motor vehicle act Regulations.
"non-bypass customer" Means a customer of a public utility that receives service under a Rate that is not specific to the customer; "operating costs" , in relation to a fuelling station or to distribution or storage Infrastructure, means (a) Operating and maintenance expenses, (b) Electricity expenses, (c) Interest expenses, (d) Taxes, including property taxes, (e) Return on equity, (f) Extraordinary retirement costs, and (g) Amounts with respect to the depreciation of the (i) Capital costs, (ii) Construction carrying costs, (iii) Feasibility and development costs, (iv) Sustaining capital costs, and (v) Decommissioning and salvaging costs Determined with reference to the remaining service life of the Fuelling station or distribution or storage infrastructure, as Approved by the commission in setting rates; "safety guidelines" Means safety guidelines adopted by the british columbia safety Authority;
"shore-side asset" Means any of the following:
(a) Boil-off gas recovery equipment; (b) An lng cryogenic loading manifold; (c) An lng cryogenic pipeline and vessel loading berth; (d) An lng cryogenic storage tank; (e) An lng measurement apparatus; "tanker truck load-out" Means equipment for transferring liquefied natural gas from a storage Tank to a liquefied natural gas tank trailer.
[am. b.c. regs. 235/2013, s. 1; 98/2015, s. 1; 214/2016, s. 1; 114/2017, s. 1; 84/2018, s. 1; 134/2021, s. 1; 126/2023, s. 1; 125/2023, s. 1.] Prescribed undertaking — marine vehicles using liquefied natural gas 2 (1) In this section:
"natural gas marine vehicle" Means a marine vehicle that uses, as a fuel source, liquefied natural Gas;
"undertaking period" Means the period ending on march 31, 2024.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in the class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the Act:
(a) The public utility provides, on or before march 31, 2024, Through an open and competitive application process, (i) Grants or zero-interest loans to persons in british columbia for the Purchase of a natural gas marine vehicle to be operated in british Columbia, or (ii) Grants to persons in british columbia (a) To implement safety practices, or (b) To improve maintenance facilities To meet safety guidelines for operating and maintaining a natural gas Marine vehicle; (b) An expenditure on a grant or loan for a natural gas marine vehicle Does not exceed 50% of the difference between the cost of the natural Gas marine vehicle and the cost of a comparable vehicle that uses Gasoline or diesel; (c) During the undertaking period, (i) Total expenditures on the undertaking in this section, including Expenditures on administration, marketing, training and education, do Not exceed $60 million in total, (ii) Expenditures on administration, marketing, training and education Related to the prescribed undertaking in this section do not exceed $9 million in total, including any expenditures on Administration, marketing, training and education related to the Prescribed undertakings described in section 2 (1) and (3.2) Of the former regulation, and (iii) Expenditures on the undertaking on grants referred to in Subsection (2) (a) (ii) do not exceed $6 million.
[en. b.c. reg. 125/2023, s. 2.] Prescribed undertaking — liquefied natural gas distribution and Storage
2.1 (1) In this section:
"expenditures" Includes, except with respect to expenditures on administration and Marketing, binding commitments to incur expenditures in the future; "undertaking period" Means the period ending on march 31, 2024.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in the class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the Act:
(a) The public utility, before march 31, 2024, enters into a Binding commitment to (i) Construct and operate, or (ii) Purchase and operate Liquefied natural gas distribution and storage infrastructure, other Than liquefied natural gas fuelling stations, in british columbia, Including liquefied natural gas rail tank cars, iso containers and Shore-side assets, for the purpose of reducing greenhouse gas Emissions;
(b) Total expenditures on the undertaking during the undertaking period do Not exceed $40 million, including (i) Any expenditures related to the prescribed undertaking described in Section 2 (3.4) of the former regulation, and (ii) Expenditures on administration, marketing, training and education; (c) At least (i) 80% of the forecast total operating costs of the distribution and Storage infrastructure for the first 5 years of the operation are Recovered from one or more persons under a take-or-pay agreement with A minimum term of 5 years, or (ii) 60% of the forecast total operating costs of the distribution and Storage infrastructure for the first 7 years of the operation are Recovered from one or more persons under a take-or-pay agreement with A minimum term of 7 years.
[en. b.c. reg. 125/2023, s. 2.] Prescribed undertaking — acquiring renewable natural gas 2.2 (1) A public utility's undertaking that is in the class defined in Subsection (3) is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of Section 18 of the act.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (3), "acquires renewable natural gas" Includes producing renewable natural gas by producing or purchasing Biogas and upgrading it to renewable natural gas.
(3) The public utility acquires renewable natural gas (a) At costs that meet the following criteria, as applicable:
(i) If the public utility acquires renewable natural gas by purchasing it, The price of the renewable natural gas does not exceed the maximum Amount, determined in accordance with section 9, in effect in the Fiscal year in which the contract for purchase is signed; (ii) If the public utility acquires renewable natural gas by producing it, The levelized cost of production reasonably expected by the public Utility does not exceed the maximum amount, determined in accordance With section 9, in effect in the fiscal year in which the public Utility decides to construct or purchase the production facility, and (b) That, in a calendar year, does not exceed 15% of the total amount, in Gj, of natural gas provided by the public utility to its non-bypass Customers in 2019, subject to subsection (4) and section 10.
(4) The amount referred to in subsection (3) (b) does not Include renewable natural gas acquired by the public utility that the Public utility provides to a customer in accordance with a rate under Which the full cost of the following is recovered from the customer:
(a) The acquisition of the renewable natural gas; (b) The service related to the provision of the renewable natural gas.
[en. b.c. reg. 125/2023, s. 2.] Repealed
3 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 235/2013, s. 3.] Prescribed undertaking — electrification 4 (1) In this section:
"benefit" , in relation to an undertaking in a class defined in subsection (3) (a) or (b), means all revenues the public utility reasonably expects To earn as a result of implementing the undertaking, less revenues That would have been earned from the supply of undertaking electricity To export markets; "cost" , in relation to an undertaking in a class defined in subsection (3) (a) or (b), means costs the public utility reasonably expects to incur To implement the undertaking, including, without limitation, Development and administration costs; "cost-effective" Means that the present value of the benefits of all of the public Utility's undertakings within the classes defined in subsection (3) (a) or (b) exceeds the present value of the costs of all of those Undertakings when both are calculated using a discount rate equal to The public utility's weighted average cost of capital over a period That ends no later than a specified year; "natural gas processing plant" Means a facility for processing natural gas by removing from it Natural gas liquids, sulphur or other substances; "specified year" , in relation to an undertaking within a class defined in subsection (3), means (a) A year determined by the minister with respect to an identified public Utility, or (b) If the minister does not make a determination for the purposes of Paragraph (a), 2030; "undertaking electricity" Means electricity that is provided to customers in british columbia as A result of an undertaking and is in addition to electricity that Would have been provided had the undertaking not been carried out.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) For the purpose of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in british Columbia, the public utility constructs or operates an electricity Transmission or distribution facility, or provides for temporary Generation until the completion of the construction of the facility, In northeast british columbia primarily to provide electricity from The authority to (i) A producer, as defined in section 1 (1) of the petroleum and natural Gas royalty and freehold production tax regulation, b.c. reg. 495/92, Or
(ii) An owner or operator of a natural gas processing plant; (b) The public utility reasonably expects, on the date the public utility Decides to carry out the undertaking, that the facility will have an In-service date no later than december 31, 2022.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), a public utility's undertaking that is in a Class defined in one of the following paragraphs is a prescribed Undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) A program to encourage the public utility's customers, or persons who May become customers of the public utility, to use electricity, Instead of other sources of energy that produce more greenhouse gas Emissions, by (i) Educating or training those customers respecting energy use and Greenhouse gas emissions, carrying out public awareness campaigns Respecting those matters, or providing energy management and audit Services, or (ii) Providing funds to those persons to assist in the acquisition, Installation or use of equipment that uses or affects the use of Electricity;
(b) A program to encourage the public utility's customers, or persons who May become customers of the public utility, to use electricity instead Of other sources of energy that produce more greenhouse gas emissions, By
(i) Educating, training, providing energy management and audit services To, or carrying out awareness campaigns respecting energy use and Greenhouse gas emissions for, or (ii) Providing funds to Persons who (iii) Design, manufacture, sell, install or, in the course of operating a Business, provide advice respecting equipment that uses or affects the Use of electricity, (iv) Design, construct, manage or, in the course of operating a business, Provide advice respecting energy systems in buildings or facilities, Or
(v) Design, construct or manage district energy systems; (c) A project, program, contract or expenditure for research and Development of technology, or for conducting a pilot project Respecting technology, that may enable the public utility's customers To use electricity instead of other sources of energy that produce More greenhouse gas emissions; (d) A project, program, contract or expenditure supporting a Standards-making body in its development of standards respecting (i) Technologies that use electricity instead of other sources of energy That produce more greenhouse gas emissions, or (ii) Technologies that affect the use of electricity by other technologies That use electricity instead of other sources of energy that produce More greenhouse gas emissions; (e) A project for the construction, acquisition or extension of a plant or System, that the public utility reasonably expects is necessary to Meet the public utility's incremental load-serving obligations arising As a result of an undertaking defined in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), if the public utility reasonably expects any one such project to Cost no more than $20 million.
(4) An undertaking is within a class of undertakings defined in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (3) only if, at the time the public utility Decides to carry out the undertaking, the public utility reasonably Expects the undertaking to be cost- effective.
[en. b.c. reg. 76/2017.] Prescribed undertaking — electric vehicle charging stations 5 (1) In this section:
"eligible charging site" Means a site where one or more eligible charging stations are located; "eligible fast charging station" Means a fast charging station that (a) Is available for use by any member of the public during the site's Hours of operation, (b) Does not require users to be members of a charging network, and (c) Is capable of charging electric vehicles of more than one make; "eligible level 2 charging station" Means a charging station that (a) Is a fixed device capable of charging an electric vehicle using 240v, (b) Shares a site with an eligible fast charging station or is on a site Owned by any of the follow entities:
(i) A public utility; (ii) The government; (iii) The government of canada; (iv) An agency of the government or government of canada; (v) A government body, as defined in section 1 of the Financial administration act ; (vi) A local authority, as defined in section 1 of the schedule to the Community charter ; (c) Is available for use by any member of the public during the site's Hours of operation, (d) Does not require users to be members of a charging network, and (e) Is capable of charging electric vehicles of more than one make; "fast charging station" Means a fixed device capable of charging an electric vehicle using a Direct current; "limited municipality" Means a municipality with a population of 9 000 or more; "site limit" , in relation to a limited municipality, means the number calculated By
(a) Dividing the population of the municipality by 9 000, and (b) If applicable, rounding the quotient up to the nearest whole number.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) The public utility constructs and operates, or purchases and operates, An eligible fast charging station; (b) The public utility reasonably expects, on the date the public utility Decides to construct or purchase an eligible fast charging station, That
(i) The station will come into operation by december 31, 2030, And
(ii) If the station will be located in a limited municipality, the number Of eligible charging sites in the municipality on the date the station Will come into operation will not exceed the site limit for the Municipality on that date; (c) If an eligible fast charging station comes into operation on or after January 1, 2022, the station uses or is configured to use the Open charge point protocol.
(3) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the Act:
(a) The public utility constructs and operates, or purchases and operates, An eligible level 2 charging station; (b) The eligible level 2 charging station conforms or will conform to The open charge point protocol; (c) The public utility reasonably expects, on the date the public utility Decides to construct or purchase the eligible level 2 charging Station, that the station will come into operation by December 31, 2030.
[en. b.c. reg. 139/2020; am. b.c. regs. 125/2023, s. 3; 175/2023, s.
(a).] Prescribed undertaking — zero-emission vehicles, machines and charging Infrastructure
5.1 (1) In this section, "commercial zero-emission charging infrastructure" Means
(a) A device or battery capable of charging a zero-emission vehicle or Machine using 240v or direct current, or (b) Battery-based storage installed for the purposes of charging a Zero-emission vehicle or machine; "eligible zero-emission vehicle or machine" Means
(a) A vehicle or machine that is propelled by electricity or hydrogen from An external source and emits no greenhouse gases at least some of the Time while the vehicle or device is being operated, and (b) The vehicle or machine is one of the following:
(i) A vehicle with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of more Than 4 536 kg; (ii) A school bus; (iii) A transit bus; (iv) A marine vehicle; (v) A mine haul truck; (vi) A locomotive; (vii) An implement of husbandry; (viii) A farm tractor; (ix) A logging truck; (x) An industrial utility vehicle; "expenditures" Includes, except with respect to expenditures on administration and Marketing, binding commitments to incur expenditures in the future.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the Act:
(a) The public utility provides, on or before march 31, 2030, Through an open and competitive application process:
(i) Grants or zero-interest loans to persons in british columbia for the Purchase of an eligible zero-emission vehicle or machine to be Operated in british columbia, or (ii) Grants to persons in british columbia (a) To implement safety practices, or (b) To improve maintenance facilities To meet safety guidelines for operating and maintaining an eligible Zero-emission vehicle or machine; (b) Subject to paragraph (c) and subsection (4), total Expenditures on the undertaking during the period ending on March 31, 2030 do not exceed $100 million; (c) Total expenditures on grants to persons in british columbia during the Period ending on march 31, 2030 in relation to Subsection (2) (a) (ii) do not exceed $6 million; (d) An expenditure on a grant or zero-interest loan for an eligible Zero-emission vehicle or machine does not, in any year of the Undertaking, exceed 50% of the difference between the cost of an Eligible zero-emission vehicle or machine and the cost of comparable Vehicle or machine that uses gasoline or diesel.
(3) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the Act:
(a) The public utility, before march 31, 2030, enters into a Binding commitment to construct or purchase, for the purposes of Charging and fuelling eligible zero-emission vehicles or machines, Commercial zero-emission charging infrastructure or hydrogen fuelling Infrastructure and operate the infrastructure; (b) Subject to subsection (4), total expenditures on the undertaking During the period ending on march 31, 2030 do not exceed $100 million.
(4) The undertakings referred to in subsections (2) and (3) are Prescribed undertakings for the purposes of section 18 of the act Only if (a) The total combined expenditures of the undertakings in this section on Administration and marketing during the period ending on March 31, 2030 do not exceed $6 million, and (b) The total combined expenditures of the undertakings in this section on Training, education, studies, pilot projects and standards development During the period ending on march 31, 2030 do not exceed $8 million.
[en. b.c. reg. 125/2023, s. 4.] Prescribed undertaking — zero-emission vehicle grants 5.2 (1) In this section:
"adjusted average price" , in relation to a fiscal year, means the product of (a) 0.75, and (b) The average price of a credit transferred in the calendar year that Ends on a date in the fiscal year, as published under section 11.11 (5) (b) of the renewable and low carbon fuel requirements regulation, B.c. reg. 394/2008; "credit" Means a credit generated under the Greenhouse gas reduction (renewable and low carbon fuel Requirements) act ; "government corporation" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Financial administration act ; "motor vehicle liability policy" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Motor vehicle act ; "specified credit" Means a credit generated in relation to the supply of electricity (a) Before january 1, 2022 to charge a vehicle at a residential building, Or
(b) On or after january 1, 2022 to charge a vehicle at a residential Building that includes fewer than 5 dwelling units; "zero-emission vehicle" Has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Zero-emission vehicles act .
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) The public utility provides grants for the following who purchase or Lease in british columbia a new zero-emission vehicle that is a Light-duty vehicle:
(i) An individual who is resident in british columbia; (ii) A person, other than a person excluded under subsection (3), who Operates in british columbia, if the person (a) Registers and licenses the vehicle in accordance with section 3 (1) (a) and (b) of the Motor vehicle act , and (b) Insures the vehicle under a motor vehicle liability policy that is Valid for a period of 12 months beginning on the date the vehicle is Delivered to the person and maintains that policy in force for that Period;
(b) Expenditures on administration and marketing in relation to the Undertaking, in each fiscal year of the public utility, do not exceed $2.5 million; (c) Total expenditures on the undertaking, other than expenditures on Administration and marketing, do not exceed the amount specified by Subsection (4).
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) (a) (ii), the following are Excluded:
(a) The government; (b) The government of canada; (c) The government of a province or territory within canada; (d) The government of a jurisdiction outside of canada; (e) An agency of a government described in paragraphs (a) to (d); (f) A government corporation or a corporation that stands in relation to a Government described in paragraphs (b) to (d) as a government Corporation stands in relation to the government of british columbia.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (2) (c), the specified amount is the Sum of the products, for the fiscal year of the public utility that Begins in 2022 and each subsequent fiscal year, of (a) The number of specified credits transferred away by the public utility In the fiscal year, and (b) The adjusted average price for the fiscal year.
[en. b.c. reg. 126/2023, s. 2.] Prescribed undertaking — hydrogen 6 A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) The public utility (i) Produces or purchases hydrogen that is distributed through the natural Gas distribution system in british columbia to the customers of that Public utility or of another public utility, or (ii) Purchases hydrogen that is provided to a customer of the public Utility other than through the natural gas distribution system in British columbia and that is to be used by that customer to replace, At least in part, natural gas derived from fossil fuels; (b) The hydrogen referred to in paragraph (a) (i) Is derived from water using electricity that is generated primarily From clean or renewable resources, or (ii) Is waste hydrogen, as defined in the clean or renewable resource Regulation, purchased by the public utility; (c) The costs incurred by the public utility in producing or purchasing The hydrogen referred to in paragraph (a) meet the following criteria, As applicable:
(i) If the public utility produces hydrogen, the levelized cost of Production reasonably expected by the public utility does not exceed The maximum amount, determined in accordance with section 9, in effect In the fiscal year in which the public utility decides to construct or Purchase the production facility; (ii) If the public utility purchases hydrogen (a) That is distributed through the natural gas distribution system in British columbia, the price of the hydrogen does not exceed the Maximum amount, determined in accordance with section 9, in effect in The fiscal year in which the contract for purchase is signed; (b) That is provided to a customer other than through the natural gas Distribution system in british columbia, the price of the hydrogen and The costs of distribution reasonably expected by the public utility do Not, together, exceed the maximum amount, determined in accordance With section 9, in effect in the fiscal year in which the contract for Purchase is signed; (d) Subject to section 10, the public utility produces or purchases Hydrogen that, in a calendar year, does not exceed 15% of the total Amount of natural gas, in gj, provided by the public utility to its Non-bypass customers in 2019.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2021, s. 3.] Prescribed undertaking — synthesis gas 7 (1) In this section, "biomass" Means non-fossilized plants or parts of plants, animal waste or any Product made of either of these, other than a fuel product, and Includes wood and wood products, agricultural residues and wastes, Biologically derived organic matter found in municipal and industrial Wastes, black liquor and kraft pulp fibres.
(2) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) The public utility purchases and distributes synthesis gas that is (i) Derived from biomass, (ii) To be used by a customer to replace, at least in part, natural gas Derived primarily from fossil fuels, and (iii) To be used at the site at which it is produced; (b) The price of the synthesis gas referred to in paragraph (a) and the Costs of distribution reasonably expected by the public utility do Not, together, exceed the maximum amount, determined in accordance With section 9, in effect in the fiscal year in which the contract for Purchase is signed; (c) Subject to section 10, the public utility purchases the synthesis gas In an amount that, in a calendar year, does not exceed 15% of the Total amount of natural gas, in gj, provided by the public utility to Its non-bypass customers in 2019.
(3) The costs of distribution described in subsection (2) (b) are limited To the costs of the construction and operation, at the site at which The synthesis gas is produced, of meters and pipelines associated with The undertaking.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2021, s. 3.] Prescribed undertaking — lignin 8 (1) A public utility's undertaking that is in a class defined as follows Is a prescribed undertaking for the purposes of section 18 of the act:
(a) The public utility purchases and distributes lignin that is (i) Derived from black liquor, (ii) To be used by a customer to replace, at least in part, natural gas Derived from fossil fuels, and (iii) To be used at the site at which it is produced; (b) The price of the lignin referred to in paragraph (a) and the costs of Distribution reasonably expected by the public utility do not, Together, exceed the maximum amount, determined in accordance with Section 9, in effect in the fiscal year in which the contract for Purchase is signed; (c) Subject to section 10, the public utility purchases the lignin in an Amount that, in a calendar year, does not exceed 15% of the total Amount of natural gas, in gj, provided by the public utility to its Non-bypass customers in 2019.
(2) The costs of distribution described in subsection (1) (b) are limited To the costs of the construction and operation, at the site at which The lignin is produced, of meters and pipelines associated with the Undertaking.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2021, s. 3.] Maximum amount for costs 9 For the purposes of sections 2.2 (3) (a), 6 (c), 7 (2) (b) and 8 (1) (b), (a) The maximum amount in effect in the 2021/2022 fiscal year is $31 per Gj, and (b) For fiscal years subsequent to the 2021/2022 fiscal year, the maximum Amount is calculated on april 1 of each year by multiplying (i) The maximum amount in effect in the immediately preceding fiscal year, And
(ii) The sum of (a) 1, and (b) The annual percentage change for the previous calendar year.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2021, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 125/2023, s. 5; 175/2023, s. (b).] Aggregate amount if multiple undertakings 10 If a public utility does 2 or more of the following:
(a) Acquires renewable natural gas in accordance with section 2.2 (3); (b) Produces or purchases hydrogen in accordance with section 6; (c) Purchases synthesis gas in accordance with section 7; (d) Purchases lignin in accordance with subsection 8, The aggregate amount of all products must not exceed 15% of the total Amount of natural gas, in gj, provided by the public utility to its Non-bypass customers in 2019.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2021, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 125/2023, s. 6; 175/2023, s. (c).] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Clean energy act , s.b.c. 2010, c. 22, s. 35.]