B.c. reg. 133/2023 O.c. 328/2023 Deposited may 31, 2023 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Housing supply act Housing supply regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Housing supply act ; "housing unit" Means a self-contained unit of residential accommodation with cooking, Sleeping, bathroom and living area facilities.
Specified municipalities 2 For the purposes of the definition of "specified municipality" in Section 1
[definitions] Of the act, the municipalities set out in the schedule are prescribed As specified municipalities.
Specified municipality contact 3 A specified municipality must provide the minister the name, position Title and business contact information of a primary contact person for The purposes of consultations under sections 3 (2) [requirements for making housing target order] And 7 (2)
[requirements for appointing advisor or issuing directive] Of the act.
Consultation with specified municipality — housing target order 4 (1) For the purposes of section 3 (3) (b) of the act, the Minister must, on providing a description of a proposed housing target Order to a specified municipality, provide the specified municipality A period of 30 days in which to provide written comments to the Minister.
(2) On written request of the specified municipality before the expiry of The period referred to in subsection (1), the minister may extend The period for the length of time specified by the minister.
Housing target progress report 5 (1) For the purposes of section 4 (2) (d) of the act, a Housing target progress report must include the following information In relation to each housing target established in the order:
(a) The name, position title and business contact information of a primary Contact person for the specified municipality for ministry follow-up; (b) The name, position title and business contact information of each Person who prepared the housing target progress report, if the person Is not a municipal employee or municipal official.
(2) For the purposes of section 4 (3) (a) of the act, a Specified municipality must, by resolution, receive the housing target Progress report within 45 days after the end of the reporting Period to which the report applies.
(3) On written request of the specified municipality in accordance with Subsection (4), the minister may extend the period referred to in Subsection (2) for the length of time specified by the minister.
(4) A request made under subsection (3) must be (a) Made in the form and manner required by the minister, and (b) Submitted to the minister within 30 days after the end of the Reporting period to which the report applies.
Consultation with specified municipality — appointment of advisor or Issuing of directive 6 (1) For the purposes of section 7 (3) (b) [requirements for appointing advisor or issuing directive] Of the act, the minister must, on providing a description of a Proposed action referred to in section 6 (2) [application of part 4 — compliance] Of the act to a specified municipality, provide the specified Municipality a period of 30 days in which to provide written Comments to the minister.
(2) On written request of the specified municipality before the expiry of The period referred to in subsection (1), the minister may extend The period for the length of time specified by the minister.
(3) A description of the proposed appointment of an advisor under Section 6 (2) (a) of the act must include (a) The proposed scope of the advisor's review under Section 8 (1)
[advisor] Of the act, and (b) An estimate of the length of time required for the review.
Provision of housing information to minister 7 For the purposes of section 13 (e) [provision of housing information to minister] Of the act, the following information is prescribed as information That a municipality must, on the request of the minister, collect and Provide to the minister:
(a) The area and location of land in the municipality that is zoned for Residential, commercial, industrial or any other use; (b) The current use of land referred to in paragraph (a); (c) The planned residential density of subdivided vacant and undeveloped Land;
(d) The number of residential lots in the municipality that have not been Built upon; (e) The number of applications received by the municipality, during the Period specified in the request, for permits the municipality is Authorized to issue under the Community charter , the Local government act Or the Vancouver charter ; (f) The median time from receipt of an application referred to in Paragraph (e) to a decision by the municipality on the Application;
(g) The number of permits issued in relation to applications referred to In paragraph (e) and the number of housing units to which the Permits relate; (h) The number of applications referred to in paragraph (e) that were Refused;
(i) Information respecting development constraints, including, without Limitation, municipal infrastructure capacity; (j) Copies of municipal zoning maps, including, without limitation, maps That identify any housing overlays and transit corridors.
Schedule
City of abbotsford City of burnaby City of chilliwack City of colwood City of coquitlam City of delta City of kamloops City of kelowna City of langford City of langley City of maple ridge City of mission City of nanaimo City of new westminster City of north vancouver City of pitt meadows City of port coquitlam City of port moody City of prince george City of richmond City of surrey City of vancouver City of west kelowna City of white rock District municipality of west vancouver District of highlands District of lantzville District of metchosin District of north saanich District of sooke District of squamish The corporation of the city of duncan The corporation of the city of victoria The corporation of the district of central saanich The corporation of the district of oak bay The corporation of the district of north cowichan The corporation of the district of north vancouver The corporation of the district of saanich The corporation of the township of esquimalt The corporation of the township of langley Town of ladysmith Town of lake cowichan Town of sidney Town of view royal Village of anmore Village of belcarra Village of lions bay [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Housing supply act , s.b.c. 2022, c. 38, ss. 20 and 21.]