B.c. reg. 586/76 O.c. 3301/76 Filed november 15, 1976 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Human resource facility act Human resource facility former grants regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 278/99] Repealed
1-5 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 278/99, s. 2 (b).] Conditions of aid 6 Where an application is approved by the minister and aid granted, the Following conditions of such aid shall apply:
(a) Where the total cost of a project, approved by the minister, includes An amount to be expended in acquiring an interest in land, or in Acquiring an interest in land and improvements thereon, or in erecting Improvements on land already owned by the applicant, the land and Improvements thereon shall not be remortgaged, sold, leased or Transferred in whole or in part, and the use of the land and Improvements thereon shall not be changed, without the prior written Consent of the minister; (b) Where the aid has been used to obtain an interest in land and Improvements thereon, or has been used to erect improvements on land Already owned by the applicant, and where the interest in the real Property is sold, transferred or leased by the applicant, the minister May require that a share of the proceeds resulting from such sale, Transfer or lease shall be paid to the crown in right of the province Of british columbia. such share of the proceeds shall be in the same Proportion as that which existed between the dollar value of aid Granted by the province and the dollar value of the aforesaid property At the time that such aid was granted; (c) Where property acquired with money raised by way of a grant under the Human resource facility act Is transferred, remortgaged or put into use for any purpose other than That approved by the minister, the minister may from time to time Require the recipient to refund to the crown in the right of the Province of british columbia all or part of the amount of such grant; (d) The facility for which aid is or has been granted shall be subject to Inspection at any time by any person duly appointed by the minister For this purpose; (e) The applicant for a grant shall submit an audited financial statement To the minister annually, or at any other time that an audited Financial statement is requested in writing by the minister.
Filing of notice of property restrictions 7 Where aid has been granted pursuant to the Human resource facility act And its regulations, the minister shall file with the registrar of the Land registration district in which the property is situate a notice That the said property is subject to the restrictions on transfer Contained in this regulation.
Applicability of regulation 8 (1) This regulation shall apply with respect to all applications which Have been approved or to any aid which has been granted pursuant to The
Treatment resources act , or pursuant to its successor statute, the Human resource facility act .
(2) This regulation applies only to applications made and aid given before The human resource facility regulation came into force.
[am. b.c. reg. 278/99, s. 2 (c) and (d).] [provisions of the Human resource facility act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 209, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Section 3]