B.C. Reg. 53/98
O.C. 205/98
Deposited February 27, 1998
effective March 1, 1998
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Wildlife Act
Hunter Safety Training Regulation
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Division 1 — Introduction
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Wildlife Act
;
"applicant"
means a person who makes application to the director to take the CORE
program;
"CORE certificate"
means a certificate specified by the director that is issued to a
person who successfully completes the CORE program;
"CORE program"
means the Conservation and Outdoor Recreation Education program
established under section 2 (1);
"CORE registration form"
means a CORE program application and registration form specified by
the director;
"designated agency"
means a group or organization appointed under section 2 (4) to operate
the CORE program;
"examiner"
means a person appointed under section 3 (2) as a CORE program
examiner.
CORE program
2
(1)
There is established in British Columbia a hunter safety training
course called the Conservation and Outdoor Recreation Education
program.
(2)
The CORE program consists of a practical firearm handling test, and a
written examination on all of the following subjects:
(a)
outdoor ethics;
(b)
firearm handling;
(c)
hunting regulations;
(d)
animals of British Columbia;
(e)
birds of British Columbia;
(f)
outdoor survival and safety;
(g)
hunter heritage, conservation, and wildlife management.
(3)
The director must approve the content and format of the practical
firearms handling test and the written examination before an examiner
may administer the test and examination.
(4)
The director may appoint any group or organization as a designated
agency to operate the CORE program under terms the director may
specify, and may suspend or cancel the appointment for just cause
including, but not limited to, a violation of the Act or regulations
or failure to comply with the CORE program standards.
[am. B.C. Regs. 67/2002; 168/2005, s. 1.]
Division 2 — CORE Program Coordinators and Examiners
Appointment of CORE program coordinators and examiners
3
(1)
A designated agency may appoint one or more persons it considers
appropriate as CORE program coordinators, and may suspend or cancel
the appointment for just cause including, but not limited to, a
violation of the Act or regulations or failure to comply with the CORE
program standards.
(2)
A designated agency may, in accordance with standards specified by the
director, appoint as an examiner any person it considers appropriate,
and may suspend or cancel the appointment for just cause including,
but not limited to, a violation of the Act or regulations or failure
to comply with the CORE program standards.
(3)
If a designated agency suspends or cancels a person's appointment as
an examiner under subsection (2), that decision may be appealed to the
director who may deny the appeal, or allow the appeal and reinstate
the person's appointment.
(4)
A designated agency must ensure that each examiner receives a copy of
this regulation at the time of appointment as an examiner.
Surrender of records, certificates and documentation
4
(1)
A designated agency whose appointment is suspended or canceled under
section 2 (4) must, at the request of the director, promptly submit to
the director all records, certificates and other documentation
relating to its appointment under this regulation.
(2)
An examiner whose appointment is suspended or canceled under section 3
(2) must promptly submit to the designated agency all records,
certificates and other documentation relating to the examiner's duties
as an examiner.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 4.]
Division 3 — Examinations and Certification
Conduct of examinations
5
(1)
Before an applicant attempts the test and examination referred to in
section 2 (2), the applicant must complete the applicable part of the
CORE registration form and submit it, together with the CORE program
test and examination fee referred to in section 7 (a), to the
examiner.
(2)
If an applicant attempts the CORE program test and examination
referred to in section 2 (2), the examiner must complete the
applicable part of the CORE registration form.
CORE certificate
6
(1)
On successful completion by an applicant of the CORE program, the
examiner must
(a)
complete the applicable part of the CORE registration form for an
applicant who is eligible to receive a CORE certificate, and
(b)
provide the original of the completed CORE registration form to the
applicant.
(1.1)
If an applicant forwards to the designated agency the original of the
CORE registration form evidencing that the applicant successfully
completed the test and examination referred to in section 2 (2),
together with the CORE certificate fee referred to in section 7 (b),
the designated agency must issue the applicant a CORE certificate.
(2)
The CORE certificate issued under subsection (1), or the completed
original copy of the CORE registration form, is
(a)
a document evidencing that the person named on it has successfully
completed an examination on conservation, outdoor recreation and
safety for the purposes of
(i)
section 17 (1) of the Act, and
(ii)
section 9 (1) (a) of B.C. Reg. 8/99, the Hunting Licensing Regulation,
(b)
a document evidencing that the person named on it has successfully
completed the CORE program for the purposes of section 9 (3) of this
regulation, and
(c)
a licence for the purposes of sections 81 and 82 of the Act.
[am. B.C. Regs. 129/2000; 168/2005, s. 2; 340/2005, s. 9; 76/2022, s.
3.]
Fees
7
The prescribed fees for the CORE program are as follows:
(a)
$10, payable by an applicant, for the administration of each CORE
program test and examination;
(b)
$30, payable by an applicant who successfully completes the CORE
program, for the issue of the CORE certificate.
Retention of records
8
(1)
An examiner must keep a copy of the CORE registration form referred to
in sections 5 and 6 for a period of 2 years from the date
that the test or examination was successfully completed by the
applicant.
(2)
An examiner must keep
(a)
the practical firearms test sheet used for every successfully
completed practical firearms handling test, and
(b)
a copy of every successfully completed written examination answer
sheet,
for a period of 2 years from the date that the test or examination was
administered by the examiner.
Division 4 — Miscellaneous
Director's powers
9
(1)
The director may establish standards and approve procedures related to
the operation of the CORE program.
(2)
If the procedures referred to in subsection (1) are approved and
provided to a designated agency, the designated agency must ensure
that all examiners receive a copy of them.
(3)
The director may order a person whose hunting licence has been
cancelled, or who has been prohibited from hunting, to successfully
complete the CORE program before that person may again obtain a
hunting licence or hunt.
(4)
The director may exercise any power or duty of a designated agency.
[am. B.C. Regs. 340/2005, s. 10; 76/2022, s. 11.]
Offence and penalty
10
A person who contravenes section 4 or 8 commits an offence.
[Provisions of the
Wildlife Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 488, ss. 18 and 108 (2).]
