B.C. Reg. 274/2021
O.C. 599/2021
Deposited November 1, 2021
effective May 1, 2021
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
Insurance (Vehicle) Transitional Regulation
Definition and interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation,
"Act"
means the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
.
(2)
For the purposes of this regulation, in relation to a vehicle that is
leased or rented,
(a)
the vehicle for which a renter is named in the owner's certificate is
not to be considered to be owned by the owner of the vehicle if, at
the time of the accident, the owner does not have possession of the
vehicle,
(b)
the vehicle is not to be considered to be owned by a short-term rental
agency if, at the time of the accident, the short-term rental agency
does not have possession of the vehicle,
(c)
the vehicle for which a renter is named in the owner's certificate is
not to be considered leased by the renter if, at the time of the
accident, the vehicle is in the possession of the owner, and
(d)
the vehicle is not to be considered leased or rented by a short-term
renter, if, at the time of the accident, the vehicle is in the
possession of the short-term rental agency.
Application of section 176 of the Act
2
For the purposes of applying section 176
[restriction on indemnification]
of the Act,
(a)
section 176 (1) (a) of the Act must be read as if that provision
includes the phrase "regardless of whether the vehicles are owned in
British Columbia or in a jurisdiction outside British Columbia" after
"involved in the accident",
(b)
section 176 (1) (b) of the Act must be read as if that provision
includes the phrase "regardless of whether the vehicles are owned in
British Columbia or in a jurisdiction outside British Columbia" after
"operated by the owner",
(c)
section 1 (2) of this regulation applies to
section 176 (1) (a) and (b) of the Act, and
(d)
section 176 (3) of the Act must be read to apply to the following:
(i)
the operator of the vehicle owned, leased or rented by the person in a
prescribed class of persons;
(ii)
the operator of a vehicle that is leased or rented by an owner.
Additional prescribed circumstances in which indemnification is not
paid
3
The following circumstances are prescribed for
section 176 (1) (c) of the Act:
(a)
if an owner owns, leases or rents more than one vehicle involved in
the accident regardless of whether the vehicles are owned, leased or
rented in British Columbia or in a jurisdiction outside British
Columbia;
(b)
if a vehicle owned, leased or rented by an owner is damaged by another
vehicle operated by the owner regardless of whether the vehicles are
owned, leased or rented in British Columbia or in a jurisdiction
outside British Columbia;
(c)
if the owner's vehicle is damaged in an accident in a circumstance
prescribed in section 25 (3) (a) and (b)
[restriction on indemnification]
of the Basic Vehicle Damage Coverage Regulation.
Additional circumstances in which indemnification is not paid —
short-term rentals
4
(1)
The corporation must not indemnify a short-term rental agency under
Division 3
[Coverage]
of Part 11
[Basic Vehicle Damage Coverage and Limits on Actions and
Proceedings]
of the Act with respect to an accident if the vehicle rented by a
short-term renter from the short-term rental agency is damaged by
(a)
a vehicle operated by the short-term renter, or
(b)
a vehicle owned, leased or rented by the short-term renter.
(2)
The restrictions under subsection (1) apply only to the extent
that the short-term renter or the operator of the vehicle owned,
leased or rented by the short-term renter is responsible for the
accident.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 231, s. 184.]
