B.C. Reg. 84/91
O.C. 373/91
Deposited March 22, 1991
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Financial Institutions Act
Insurance Company Vehicle Liability
Insurance Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 253/2007, July 19, 2007]
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"action"
means an action, claim or proceeding arising out of a vehicle
accident;
"certificate"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
;
"policy"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
;
"third party liability insurance coverage"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
;
"vehicle insurance"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
;
"vehicle liability policy"
has the same meaning as in the
Insurance (Vehicle) Act
.
[am. B.C. Reg. 149/2007, s. 2.]
Conditions on insurers contracting vehicle liability insurance
2
(1)
Each of subsections (2) and (3) is a condition of every business
authorization issued to, or held by, an insurance company or
extraprovincial insurance corporation.
(2)
In an action brought in British Columbia against an insurance company
or its insured or an extraprovincial insurance corporation or its
insured under a policy evidencing a contract of vehicle insurance made
outside British Columbia that provides third party liability insurance
coverage, the insurance company or extraprovincial insurance
corporation
(a)
shall appear,
(b)
shall not set up any defence to the action, including a defence as to
the limit or limits of liability under the contract made outside
British Columbia that might not be set up if the contract were
evidenced by a vehicle liability policy issued in British Columbia,
and
(c)
shall satisfy any final judgement rendered against it or its insured
in the action in respect of any type or class of coverage provided
under the contract, and in respect of any type or class of coverage
required by law to be provided under a vehicle liability policy issued
in British Columbia, up to the greater of
(i)
the amount and limits for that type or class of coverage or coverages,
provided under the contract, and
(ii)
the minimum for that type or class of coverage, or coverages, required
by law to be provided under a certificate of vehicle insurance issued
in British Columbia, exclusive of interest and costs, and subject to
any priorities as to bodily injury or property damage with respect to
such minimum amounts and limits as may be required by law in British
Columbia.
(3)
In an action brought in another province or territory of Canada
against an insurance company or its insured or against an
extraprovincial insurance corporation or its insured under a contract
of vehicle insurance made in British Columbia, the insurance company
or extraprovincial insurance corporation
(a)
shall appear,
(b)
shall not set up a defence to the action, including a defence as to
the limit or limits of liability under the contract made in British
Columbia that might not be set up if the contract were evidenced by a
vehicle liability insurance policy issued in the other province or
territory, and
(c)
shall satisfy any final judgement rendered against it, or its insured
in the action in respect of any type or class of coverage provided
under the contract, and in respect of any type or class of coverage
required by law to be provided under a contract of vehicle insurance
in the other province or territory, up to the greater of
(i)
the amounts and limits for that type or class of coverage, or
coverages, provided under the contract, and
(ii)
the minimum for that type or class of coverage, or coverages, required
by law to be provided under a contract of vehicle insurance in the
other province or territory, exclusive of interest and costs, and
subject to any priorities as to bodily injury or property damage with
respect to such minimum amounts and limits as may be required by law
in the other province or territory.
[am. B.C. Regs. 149/2007, s. 3; 253/2007.]
[Provisions of the
Financial Institutions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 289]
