B.c. reg. 283/2009 O.c. 620/2009 Deposited november 27, 2009 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Islands trust act Islands trust electronic meetings regulation [last amended september 29, 2021 by b.c. reg. 236/2021] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"special meeting" Means a meeting other than a regular meeting or an adjourned meeting; "trust body" Means the trust council, the executive committee, a local trust Committee and the islands trust conservancy.
[am. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 1, s. 1.] Electronic regular meetings of a trust body 2 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) [procedure bylaws] Of the Local government act , as that section applies to a trust body, and the requirements of Subsection (2) of this section are met, regular meetings of a trust Body may be conducted by means of electronic or other communication Facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a regular meeting of a Trust body referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, a trust body must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public (i) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting, and (ii) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the specified place, and an Officer or employee designated by the trust body must be in attendance At the specified place.
(3) Section 128 (3)
[participants deemed present] Of the Community charter Applies in relation to a trust body.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 1, s. 3.] Electronic special meetings of a trust body 3 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) of the Local government act , as that section applies to a trust body, and the requirements of Subsection (2) of this section are met, special meetings of a trust Body may be conducted by means of electronic or other communication Facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a special meeting of a Trust body referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The notice under section 127 (2) [notice of council meetings] Of the Community charter , as that section applies to the trust body, must include notice of The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities and the place where the public may Attend to hear, or watch and hear, the proceedings that are open to The public; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting at the specified place, and an officer or employee designated By the trust body must be in attendance at the specified place.
(3) Section 128.1 (3)
[participants deemed present] Of the Community charter Applies in relation to a trust body.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 1, s. 3.] Electronic participation by members in meetings of a trust body 4 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) of the Local government act , as that section applies to a trust body, and the requirements of Subsection (2) of this section are met, a member of a trust body who Is unable to attend in person at a regular meeting or a special Meeting of the trust body may participate in the meeting by means of Electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to In subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the participation of the member; (c) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Participation of the member.
(3) Section 128.3 (3)
[participants deemed present] Of the Community charter Applies in relation to a trust body.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 1, s. 3.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Islands trust act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 239, ss. 53 and 54.]