B.c. reg. 189/92 M103/92
Deposited may 29, 1992 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Local government act Islands trust special voting regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"member" Means a person appointed to the executive committee or the trust fund Board;
"secretary" Means the member delegated by the executive committee or trust fund Board to conduct a special vote; "urgent" Means requiring immediate action as a result of unforeseen Circumstances.
Application
2 This regulation applies to the executive committee and the trust fund Board only.
Special vote may be taken on urgent matters 3 The voting by members, including voting on passing a resolution or on Reading or adopting a bylaw, may be conducted in accordance with Section 4 if the chairperson and one other member considers that (a) The issue to be voted on is urgent, and (b) Calling a regular or special meeting to conduct the voting is Impractical.
How special voting is to be conducted 4 (1) The secretary shall make all reasonable attempts in the circumstances To ensure that each member entitled to vote has the opportunity to do So.
(2) Before a member votes, the secretary shall ensure that the resolution Or bylaw to be voted on is communicated to the member either (a) Orally, including by telephone or other means of telecommunication, or (b) By delivery, including by delivery in writing, by facsimile Transmission or other means of electronic transmission or by delivery In electronic form.
(3) A member shall vote by informing the secretary, in any manner referred To in subsection (2), of the member's approval or disapproval of the Resolution or bylaw and the secretary shall at that time record the Member's vote.
(4) After ensuring that each member has an opportunity to vote as required By subsection (1), the secretary shall inform the chairperson of the Results of the voting and the chairperson shall declare the vote to Have passed or failed in accordance with those results.
(5) At the time of the chairperson's declaration under subsection (4), the Results of the voting shall have the same effect as if the voting had Been conducted at a regular meeting of the executive committee or Trust fund board and shall then be recorded by the secretary as a Minute of the executive committee or trust fund board.
(6) If the secretary is absent, ill or otherwise disabled, the chairperson May appoint another member to conduct voting under this section in Place of the secretary.
[provisions of the Local government act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Section 793 (8) and (9)]