B.c. reg. 77/2019 O.c. 182/2019 Deposited april 12, 2019 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Plant protection act Japanese beetle control regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"japanese beetle" Means an insect of the species Popillia japonica In all its life stages; "japanese beetle treatment area" Means land that is declared to be infested with japanese beetle under The
Plant protection act (canada); "insecticide" Means an insecticide registered under the Pest control products act (canada); "owner or occupier" Means
(a) An owner or occupier of land in a japanese beetle treatment area, (b) In the case of land described in paragraph (a) that is common property Under the Strata property act , the strata corporation that is responsible for managing and Maintaining the common property; "turf" Means grass and the upper stratum of soil held together by its roots.
Treatment of japanese beetle 2 If directed by an inspector, an owner or occupier must ensure that Treatment of the japanese beetle is carried out in accordance with the Direction.
Type and manner of treatment 3 (1) An insecticide suitable for use in the treatment of japanese beetle is Prescribed as the type of treatment that may be the subject of a Direction under section 4.
(2) Application of the insecticide referred to in subsection (1) to Outdoor plants and turf is prescribed as the manner of treatment that May be the subject of a direction under section 4.
Direction by inspector 4 (1) An inspector may, in accordance with this section, direct an owner or Occupier to ensure that treatment of japanese beetle is carried out.
(2) A direction under subsection (1) must be in writing and must include The following:
(a) The name of one or more insecticides that must be applied; (b) The method by which each insecticide must be applied; (c) The period or periods during which each insecticide must be applied; (d) The number of insecticide applications that must be carried out during Each period; (e) A statement that the insecticide must be applied in accordance with The
Integrated pest management act And its regulations.
(3) A direction referred to in subsection (2) may be delivered to the Owner or occupier (a) In person, (b) By regular mail sent to the owner or occupier's address in british Columbia, or (c) By email sent to the owner or occupier's last known email address.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Plant protection act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 365, ss. 3 and 8.]