B.C. Reg. 67/81
O.C. 427/81
Filed February 23, 1981
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Livestock Act
Livestock Regulations
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Part 1 — Livestock Districts
Animals at large
1
Except in the circumstances set out in section 8 (2) (a) to (c) of the
Act, no person shall allow
(a)
stallions over one year old, or
(b)
swine
to be at large in a livestock district.
Part 2 — Bull Control Areas
Notice of meeting to establish a bull control area
2
(1)
Any 5 graziers in a livestock district who reside within an area which
they desire to have established as a bull control area may, by notice
in accordance with subsection (2), call a meeting of graziers resident
within that area, which meeting shall be at a time and place named in
the notice.
(2)
The notice shall
(a)
contain a description of the proposed bull control area,
(b)
be given by posting a copy
(i)
at each post office serving the area, or
(ii)
at any 2 conspicuous public places in the area
at least 15 days before the date named for the meeting, and
(c)
be published in at least one issue of a newspaper circulating in the
area not less than 15 days before the meeting.
Meeting
3
(1)
Where a meeting is called under section 2, every grazier resident in
the area involved may attend and take part in the discussion at the
meeting.
(2)
A majority of the graziers present at the meeting may decide to
present a petition for the establishment of a bull control area.
(3)
Following a decision under subsection (2), the graziers present at the
meeting shall elect 2 of their own number for appointment to the bull
control committee.
Petition
4
The petition for the constitution of a bull control area shall
(a)
be addressed to the director,
(b)
include a description of the proposed bull control area,
(c)
state the names and addresses of the 2 persons whom the petitioners
have elected under section 3 (3),
(d)
be signed by those graziers who voted affirmatively under section 3
(2), and
(e)
contain the address of each grazier who signs.
Establishment of the bull control area
5
(1)
On receiving the petition, accompanied by proof
(a)
of compliance with sections 2 and 3, and
(b)
that the petition is signed by not less than 60% of the graziers
resident in the proposed bull control area,
the director may by order constitute the area described in the
petition as a bull control area under such name as the director
considers advisable.
(2)
The director may revoke an order under subsection (1) or disestablish
a bull control area continued under section 20 (1)
1
of the Act if
(a)
the bull control committee fails to comply with the Act or this
regulation, or
(b)
60% of the graziers resident in the area so request.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]
Members of the bull control committee
6
A bull control committee shall be composed of 3 members, of which
(a)
2 shall be elected by the graziers, and
(b)
one shall be appointed by the director.
Term of office of the first members
7
The first members of a bull control area elected by the graziers shall
hold office,
(a)
in the case of the member receiving the lesser number of votes at the
meeting held under section 3, for a term ending with the first
annual meeting after the constitution of the bull control area, and
(b)
in the case of the other member, for a term ending with the second
annual meeting after the constitution of the bull control area.
Appointment of members
8
(1)
The election and appointment of the first members of a bull control
committee shall be included in the order constituting the bull control
area.
(2)
Subject to sections 7 and 10, every member shall hold office from the
time of the member's appointment until the second annual meeting after
the member's appointment.
(3)
Notice of members elected and appointed must be filed in the office of
the director.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Removal of members
9
(1)
In the event of any casual vacancy in the membership of the committee,
the remaining members of the committee shall constitute the committee
until the vacancy is filled.
(2)
If any member of the committee is absent from the province for 3
months or fails to attend to the member's duties for a like period the
other members of the committee may declare the member's office vacant.
(3)
Any member of the committee shall cease to hold office if
(a)
the member is convicted of any offence under the Act or regulations,
(b)
the member resigns the member's office by notice in writing to the
committee, or
(c)
the member's office is declared vacant under subsection (2).
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]
Filling of any vacancy
10
(1)
If any vacancy occurs in the membership of the committee by reason of
the death of a member or through any member ceasing to hold office,
the remaining members of the committee may, subject to the approval of
the director, fill the vacancy.
(2)
The person appointed to fill the vacancy shall hold office for the
unexpired term of the member whose office the person fills.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]
Election of candidates
11
(1)
If more candidates are nominated by graziers than are required to fill
the vacancies, the chair of the meeting shall, with the consent of the
majority, proceed to take the votes of the graziers by secret ballot.
(2)
In the event of a tied vote, the chair shall conduct a second vote on
the candidates who are tied.
(3)
If a second tie occurs, the chair of the meeting has a casting vote.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Register of graziers
12
The committee shall prepare, maintain and revise a Register of
Graziers in which shall be kept the names and addresses of all
graziers resident in the bull control area.
Meetings of the committee
13
(1)
The bull control committee shall appoint from among their members
(a)
a chair, who shall have a casting vote, and
(b)
a secretary-treasurer, who shall carry out the ordinary duties of
those offices.
(2)
The secretary-treasurer, on the requisition of a member, shall summon
a meeting of the committee.
(3)
An order or resolution signed by all the members of the committee is
valid and effective without meeting.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Complaints from owners
14
The bull control committee shall deal with complaints from owners or
occupiers of land within the bull control area.
Irregularities
15
(1)
The bull control committee shall bring any irregularity observed in
regard to the control of a bull running at large within the bull
control area to the attention of the owner of the bull.
(2)
Upon receipt of notice of the irregularity the owner of the bull shall
correct it, or stop the bull running at large.
Review of records of bulls
16
The bull control committee shall, before the 28th day of February of
each year, review the records of all bulls running at large in the
bull control area during the previous calendar year and make orders
upon graziers as to which bulls must be removed and what additional
bulls must be secured for turning out in the bull control area.
Information required by the committee
17
Where requested by the bull control committee, a grazier shall
(a)
furnish the committee with any information required by the committee,
including an accurate account of all breeding females and a full
history of the grazier's herd sires, and
(b)
promptly present the grazier's bulls and breeding cattle for
inspection and examination by the committee, or the authorized
representative of the committee.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Special general meetings
18
The bull control committee may, and shall if ordered by the director,
call a special general meeting of graziers resident within the bull
control area.
Participation in general meeting
19
No person is entitled to take part in the proceedings of a general
meeting of graziers, other than the meeting referred to in
section 3, unless
(a)
the person's name is entered in the register of graziers, or
(b)
the person satisfies the chair of the general meeting that the person
is a grazier resident in the bull control area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 6, 7 and 11.]
Annual meetings
20
The bull control committee shall, between October 1 in a year and
January 31 in the succeeding year, call a meeting of graziers in
the bull control area for the purpose of electing a candidate to fill
a vacancy in the membership of the committee, reviewing accounts and
for the transaction of other business.
Notice of general meetings
21
The bull control committee shall give every grazier whose name is
entered in the register of graziers 14 days notice of the date, time
and place of every general meeting by
(a)
mailing it to every registered grazier at the grazier's last known
address, and
(b)
publishing it in one issue of a newspaper circulating in the bull
control area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Conduct of general meeting
22
The graziers present at a general meeting shall elect a chair to
conduct the business of the meeting according to established practice.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Irregularities at general meeting
23
In the event of a delay or irregularity occurring in the conduct of a
general meeting, or of doubt arising as to the validity of the
election of a member of the bull control committee, the matter shall
be referred to the director for determination, and the director's
decision is final.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Duties of the secretary-treasurer
24
The secretary-treasurer shall promptly transmit to the director a copy
of
(a)
the minutes of every meeting of the bull control committee,
(b)
every order or determination made by the committee,
(c)
the annual accounts of the committee, and
(d)
the minutes of every general meeting of graziers, certified by the
chair of the general meeting.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Part 3
Repealed
25-35
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 92/2002.]
1.
reference is to S.B.C. 1980-24-20; non-consolidated in R.S.B.C.
1996-270
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Livestock Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 270, s. 20.]
