B.c. reg. 221/95 O.c. 574/95 Deposited may 18, 1995 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local government grants act Local government grants regulations [last amended february 27, 2023 by b.c. reg. 48/2023] Part 1 — interpretation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Local government grants act ; "assessment" In relation to a jurisdiction means the converted value of land and Improvements, as defined in section 1 of the schedule to the Community charter , in the jurisdiction; "assessment weighting factor" In relation to a municipality means the provincial assessment value Divided by the person assessment of the municipality; "facilities" Means water facilities or sewage collection and disposal facilities; "greater board" Means a greater board as defined in section 1 of the schedule to the Community charter ; "jurisdiction" Means, as applicable, the regional district, municipality or other Area that is the area of jurisdiction for the local government or Related organization; "mean" In relation to a value, amount or number means the mean obtained by (a) Adding together the relevant value, amount or number for each of (i) The 3 consecutive years, or (ii) The 2 consecutive years, where 3 are not available, or (iii) One year, where 2 consecutive years are not available, Ending with the most recent year for which figures are available, and (b) Dividing the total by 3, 2 or one as the case may be; "per person assessment" In relation to a jurisdiction means the mean assessment for the Jurisdiction divided by the mean population of the jurisdiction; "population" In relation to a jurisdiction means the population of the jurisdiction As determined by the minister, who may consider (a) Information provided by the director of statistics appointed under the Statistics act , (b) Information in the most recently available census of canada, (c) Changes in the boundaries of the jurisdiction, and (d) Other information the minister considers relevant; "provincial assessment value" Means the sum of the mean assessments for all municipalities divided By the sum of the mean populations for all municipalities; "restructure" Means any establishment or reorganization of local government, Including incorporations and boundary changes, or any change in its Functions;
"rural area" Means an area that is not incorporated as a municipality; "sewage collection and disposal facilities" Means
(a) Sewage treatment and disposal plants, (b) Works, sewers and pumping stations for the collection, treatment or Disposal of sewage, and (c) Works, structures, lines or conveniences that are incidental to and Necessary for the collection, treatment or disposal of sewage; "water facilities" Means
(a) Water treatment plants and works, reservoirs, dams, wells and pumping Stations for the collection, treatment or distribution of water, and (b) Works, structures, lines and conveniences incidental to and necessary For the collection, treatment or distribution of water.
[am. b.c. regs. 307/97, s. 1; 135/99, s. 1; 185/2006, s. 1.] Part 2 — unconditional grants Division 1 — small community protection grant Eligibility
2 (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section and to the making of an Appropriation, a municipality may receive a small community protection Grant in accordance with this division.
(2) A municipality may not receive a small community protection grant Under subsection (1) (a) In the first calendar year that it is incorporated, but such a Municipality may apply for a grant referred to in division 3 of part 4, or (b) If the maximum amount determined for the municipality under section 3 (1) is less than $100 000.
(3) Payments for a grant referred to in subsection (1) will be made in 9 Equal installments unless the payments are combined or accelerated by The minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 307/97, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 111/2009, s. 1.] Maximum amount of grant 3 (1) The maximum amount of a small community protection grant under this Division to a municipality is calculated by adding the following:
(a) A base amount of $200 000, (b) An equalization amount determined by multiplying $50 000 by the Assessment weighting factor, and (c) A population amount determined by the following:
(i) If the municipality has a mean population of 5 000 or fewer, by Multiplying the municipality's mean population by $50, or (ii) If the municipality has a mean population of more than 5 000, by Subtracting from $250 000 the amount determined by multiplying $25 by the difference between the municipality's mean population and 5 000.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 111/2009, s. 2 (b).] [en. b.c. reg. 185/2006, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 111/2009, s. 2.] Information not available 4 If it is not possible to calculate one or more of the factors required For the purposes of making a calculation under this division because Reliable information necessary for the calculation is not available or Because information is not available in relation to a recently Incorporated municipality, the minister may make estimates for the Missing information in accordance with accepted statistical practices And may complete the calculation using these estimates.
[en. b.c. reg. 307/97, s. 2.] Division 2
Repealed
5-6.1 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 3.] Division 3 — regional district basic grants Eligibility
7 (1) Subject to an appropriation, a regional district may receive an Unconditional grant in accordance with this division.
(2) Payments for a grant referred to in subsection (1) are to be made in Accordance with the directions of the minister.
[am. b.c. reg. 111/2009, s. 3.] Amount of grants 8 (1) The maximum amount of a grant under this division to a regional District is the sum of (a) The amount applicable under subsection (2) to the regional district, (a.1) The amount applicable under subsection (3) to the regional district, And
(b) $5 000 for each local community established under section 243 of The
Local government act For the regional district.
(2) The maximum amount applicable in subsection (1) (a) for a regional District is (a) $120 000 if the mean population of the regional district is less Than 50 000,
(b) $100 000 if the mean population of the regional district is 50 000 or more but less than 100 000, (c) $80 000 if the mean population of the regional district is 100 000 or more but less than 150 000, (d) $60 000 if the mean population of the regional district is 150 000 or more but less than 200 000, (e) $40 000 if the mean population of the regional district is 200 000 or more but less than 250 000, and (f) $0 if the mean population of the regional district is 250 000 or More.
(3) The maximum amount applicable in subsection (1) (a.1) for a regional District is (a) $80 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is less than 10 000, (b) $70 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is 10 000 or more but less than 20 000, (c) $60 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is 20 000 or more but less than 30 000, (d) $50 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is 30 000 or more but less than 40 000, (e) $40 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is 40 000 or more but less than 50 000, and (f) $30 000 if the mean rural area population of the regional District is 50 000 or more.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 4; am. b.c. regs. 185/2006, s. 3; 78/2007, Ss. (a) to (e); 117/2018, s. 13.] Division 4 — traffic fine revenue sharing Traffic fine revenue sharing 8.1 The amount that a municipality may receive to help defray the cost of Local police enforcement for a calendar year is calculated as follows:
Amount =
Tpc
Apc
× app Where
Apc
= The aggregate municipal policing costs for municipal policing in British columbia as published for the calendar year by the Ministry of public safety and solicitor general; App
= The annual appropriation for the calendar year for the traffic Fine revenue sharing program; Tpc
= The total policing costs for the calendar year for the Municipality as accepted and published by the ministry of public Safety and solicitor general.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 5; am. b.c. regs. 27/2013, sch. 2, s. 3; 99/2018, sch. 2, s. 9.] Part 3 — conditional planning grants Classes of grants 9 The classes of conditional grants that may be made under this part are As follows:
(a) Infrastructure planning grants, being grants for projects to study and Plan the feasibility, costs, technology and location of proposed water Facilities, proposed sewage collection or disposal facilities, Proposed drainage facilities or proposed transportation facilities; (b) Community planning grants, being grants for projects to study and plan For growth and management of development at a community level Including, without limiting this, for preparation of housing policies For the community; (c) Special provincial planning grants, being grants for projects to study And plan activities of local governments that, in the opinion of the Minister, have special significance to the province; (d) Restructure planning grants, being grants for projects to study and Plan any establishment or reorganization of municipal or regional District government or any change in the functions of local Government, including without limiting this, to study and plan Incorporations, boundary changes and the transfer of services from one Jurisdiction to another; (e) Regional growth strategy planning grants, being grants for projects to Study and plan activities that contribute to the management of growth At the regional level and for the preparation of regional growth Strategies.
[am. b.c. reg. 414/95, s. 1.] Eligibility
10 (1) Any municipality or regional district may apply for a grant referred To in section 9 of this regulation.
(2) A greater board, as defined in section 1 of the schedule to the Community charter , may apply for a grant referred to in section 9 (a) of this Regulation.
(3) The trust council under the Islands trust act May apply for (a) Grants referred to in section 9 (c) and (e) of this regulation in Relation to activities referred to in sections 3, 15 and 44 of the Islands trust act , and (b) Grants referred to in section 9 (b) to (e) of this regulation in Relation to activities of a local trust committee, or the executive Committee acting as a local trust committee, under that act, And for these purposes is a related organization under the Local government grants act .
[am. b.c. regs. 414/95, s. 2; 185/2006, s. 4.] Amount of grants 11 (1) The payment of any grant under this part is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) In the case of an infrastructure planning grant, the maximum amount That may be paid as a grant to any one jurisdiction in relation to a Single project is to be determined in accordance with the following Formula:
Grant amount = ( A
+ B
) Where
A
= 100% of the first $5 000 of the costs to the jurisdiction Of the project, and B
= 50% of the next $10 000 of the costs to the jurisdiction of The project, Subject to the limit that the maximum amount of infrastructure Planning grants that may be paid to a jurisdiction in relation to a Single project in any one fiscal year is $10 000.
(3) In the case of a community planning grant, the maximum amount that may Be paid to any one jurisdiction as a grant in relation to a single Project is 50% of the costs to the jurisdiction of the project, Subject to the limit that the maximum total amount of community Planning grants that may be paid to a jurisdiction in relation to a Single project in any one fiscal year is $30 000.
(4) In the case of a special provincial planning grant, the amount of the Grant and the proportion of the project costs paid as the grant is in The discretion of the minister.
(5) In the case of a restructure planning grant, the maximum amount that May be paid to any one jurisdiction as a grant in relation to a single Project in any one fiscal year is $60 000.
(5.1) In the case of a regional growth strategy planning grant, the maximum Amount that may be paid to any one jurisdiction in relation to a Single project in any one fiscal year is 50% of the costs to the Jurisdiction of the project, subject to the following applicable limit Determined in relation to the population of the jurisdiction:
Population equal to or greater than 500 000 Maximum grant $300 000 Population of 100 000 to 499 999 Maximum grant $225 000 Population of 50 000 to 99 999 Maximum grant $150 000 Population of fewer than 50 000 Maximum grant $100 000 (6) Where this section establishes a maximum amount for a grant, more than One jurisdiction may receive that maximum in relation to the same Project.
[am. b.c. regs. 414/95, s. 3; 307/97, s. 3; 78/2007, s. (f).] Conditions of grants 12 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this part may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That, unless the study to which the grant relates is completed within The period or by the deadline as specified by the minister at the time The grant is approved, or as extended by the minister or an authorized Official from time to time, the grant will not be paid or will be paid In a lesser amount; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the study to which the grant relates as requested By the minister.
Part 4 — conditional implementation grants Division 1 — water and sewage infrastructure grants Eligibility
13 Any municipality, regional district or greater board may apply for a Grant under this division if it (a) Constructs water facilities or sewage collection and disposal Facilities, or (b) Contributes to the cost of constructing facilities that are operated On its behalf or for its benefit by another municipality, regional District or greater board.
Amount of grants 14 (1) The payment of any grant under this division is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) For a grant under this division, (a) The minimum amount of the grant is 25% of the capital cost of the Facilities, and (b) The maximum amount of the grant is 50% of the capital cost of the Facilities.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 6 (a).] (4) As an exception to subsection (2), if the minister considers that There are insufficient funds appropriated to make a grant in Accordance with those subsections, the minister may consider only part Of the cost of the facilities as eligible for a grant.
[am. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 6.] Conditions of grants 15 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this part may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That, unless the facilities to which the grant relates are completed Within the period or by the deadline specified by the minister at the Time the grant is approved, or extended by the minister or an Authorized official from time to time, the grant will not be paid or Will be paid in a lesser amount; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the project to which the grant relates as requested By the minister.
Division 2 — transportation infrastructure grants Eligibility
16 (1) A municipality whose application for funding has been recommended to The minister by the minister of transportation and infrastructure is Eligible for a grant under this division in relation to the Construction and upgrading of local transportation infrastructure that (a) Is part of a major municipal highway, or (b) Encourages walking, bicycling or the efficient use of public Transportation.
(2) In considering an application referred to in subsection (1), the Minister of transportation and infrastructure must consider the Location, relationship to land use, consistency with provincial and Regional transportation and growth strategies, classification, Function and cost of the transportation infrastructure.
Amount of grants 17 (1) The payment of any grant under this division is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) The maximum amount of a grant that may be paid to a jurisdiction under This division is 50% of the eligible capital costs of the project for Which the grant is given.
(3) The minister, in consultation with the minister of transportation and Infrastructure, may determine the costs of a project, including the Costs of right of way acquisition for the highway, that are eligible Capital costs for the purposes of subsection (2).
Conditions of grants 18 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this division may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That, unless the project to which the grant relates is completed Within the period or by the deadline specified by the minister at the Time the grant is approved, or extended by the minister or an Authorized official from time to time, the grant will not be paid or Will be paid in a lesser amount; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the project to which the grant relates as requested By the minister.
Division 3 — municipal restructure assistance grants Eligibility
19 (1) Any municipality may apply for a grant under this division to assist In
(a) Restructuring after an incorporation or boundary extension has Occurred, and (b) Making substantial changes in service delivery for its area.
(2) Eligibility for a grant under this division is subject to the Following limits:
(a) In the case of a grant in relation to restructuring, implementation of The restructuring must be approved or certain before a grant is paid; (b) A new municipality or municipality that has extended its boundaries is Only eligible to receive a grant under this division for up to the First 5 years after the incorporation or extension.
[am. b.c. reg. 78/2007, s. (g).] Amount of grants 20 (1) The payment of any grant under this division is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) In the case of a new municipality, as a grant in place of Unconditional grants under part 2 of this regulation for the Calendar year in which a new municipality becomes incorporated, a Municipality may be paid a grant the maximum amount of which is the Total of the grants paid under division 1 of part 2, Calculated as if the municipality were eligible for grants under that Part and prorated for the number of days in that calendar year during Which the municipality is incorporated.
(3) In the case of the incorporation of a rural area into a new Municipality or the extension of an existing municipality to include a Rural area, the maximum total of the grants that may be given under This division, in addition to grants referred to in subsection (2) if Applicable, is the total of the following:
(a) $200 per person, based on the population of the incorporated area that Was a rural area before incorporation; (b) $100 per person, based on the total population of the new or enlarged Municipality.
(4) In the case of a new municipality created by the amalgamation of all Or parts of existing municipalities, the maximum grant that may be Given under this division in addition to grants referred to in Subsection (2), is $100 per person, based on the total population of The new or enlarged municipality.
(5) In the case of a grant to assist in the settlement of an issue between Local governments or boards of improvement districts respecting Matters within their respective jurisdictions or the allocation of Resources or costs between them, the amount of the grant is in the Discretion of the minister.
[am. b.c. regs. 307/97, s. 4; 135/99, s. 7.] Conditions of grants 21 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this division may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That all or some part of the grant is used for a purpose specified by The minister; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the use of the grant as requested by the minister.
Division 4 — local government restructure implementation grants Eligibility
22 (1) Any municipality or regional district may apply for a grant under this Division to implement local government restructuring.
(2) As examples, a grant may be given under this division to cover the Costs of conducting an election for a first council for a new Municipality or for employing an interim administrator for an area to Be incorporated.
(3) A municipality or regional district is eligible to receive a grant Under this division for not more than 5 years after the Restructuring or service delivery change to which it relates.
(4) As an exception to subsection (3), a municipality is eligible to Receive a grant under this division in relation to policing services For not more than 5 years after a starting date determined by the Minister.
Amount of grants 23 (1) The payment of any grant under this division is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the maximum amount of a grant under this Division is the direct and actual cost to the municipality or regional District, as determined by the minister, of the transitional expenses For which the grant is given.
(3) If a regional district is incorporated by the amalgamation of 2 or More regional districts, the maximum amount of a grant under this Division to the newly incorporated regional district is the total of The grants under division 3 of part 2 of this regulation That would otherwise have been payable to the regional districts that Were amalgamated.
(4) The maximum amount of a grant in relation to the provision of policing Services is the aggregate of the annual costs to the province, as Determined by the minister in consultation with the attorney general, Of providing policing services to an area formerly policed under Section 3 (1) of the Police act .
Conditions of grants 24 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this division may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That all or some part of the grant is used for a purpose specified by The minister; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the use of the grant as requested by the minister.
Division 5 — special grants Classes of grants 25 The classes of conditional grants which may be made under this Division are as follows:
(a) Special assistance grants, being grants to assist in the resolution of Municipal or regional district problems that, in the opinion of the Minister, are unusual or unique and for which the minister considers No other means of providing the assistance is available; (b) Regional district supplemental grants, being grants to assist in the Provision of services in regional districts that are, in the opinion Of the minister, sparsely populated and financially disadvantaged.
Eligibility
26 (1) Any municipality or regional district may apply for a special grant Under section 25 (a) of this regulation.
(2) Any regional district may apply for a regional district supplemental Grant under section 25 (b) of this regulation.
Amount of grants 27 (1) The payment of any grant under this division is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) The amount of a special grant under section 25 (a) of this regulation Is in the discretion of the minister and may be made on one or more of The following bases:
(a) A fixed amount; (b) A fixed amount per resident multiplied by the population of the Jurisdiction;
(c) A percentage of the costs towards which the grant is being paid; (d) An amount established in relation to assessment in the jurisdiction.
(3) The amount of a regional district supplemental grant under section 25 (b) of this regulation is in the discretion of the minister and may be Made on the basis of either or both of the following, subject to the Limit that the maximum amount of such a grant that may be paid to a Regional district in any one fiscal year is 90% of the amount referred To in section 8 (a) of this regulation:
(a) A fixed amount; (b) A percentage of the amount referred to in section 8 (a) of this Regulation.
Conditions of grants 28 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this division may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That all or some part of the grant is used for a purpose specified by The minister; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the use of the grant as requested by the minister.
Division 6 — other infrastructure grants Eligibility
29 A municipality or regional district may apply for a grant under this Division to assist with the costs of a facility not eligible for a Grant under other provisions of this regulation if the municipality or Regional district (a) Constructs a physical asset that is owned or controlled by the Municipality or regional district, or (b) Contributes to the cost of a physical asset that is operated on its Behalf or for its benefit by another municipality or regional District.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 8.] Amount of a grant 30 (1) If there is money in an appropriation to cover a grant applied for Under section 29, the amount of the grant must not exceed the Lesser of (a) 50% of the capital cost of the facility, or (b) $100 000.
(2) If the minister considers that there is insufficient funds Appropriated to make all the grants being applied for under this Division for the fiscal year, in the amounts calculated under Subsection (1), the minister may reduce the amount to be paid for one Or more of the grants.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 8.] Conditions of grants 31 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this part may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) That, unless the facilities to which the grant relates are completed Within the period or by the deadline specified by the minister at the Time the grant is approved, or extended by the minister or an Authorized official from time to time, the grant will not be paid or Will be paid in a lesser amount; (b) That the local government provides to the minister information and Reports respecting the project to which the grant relates as requested By the minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/99, s. 8.] Part 5 — northern capital and planning grants Eligibility
32 The following regional districts, and any municipality within those Regional districts, are eligible for a conditional grant under this Part in relation to the matters referred to in section 4 (1) (a) and (c) of the act:
(a) The regional district of north coast; (b) The regional district of kitimat-stikine; (c) The regional district of bulkley-nechako; (d) The regional district of fraser-fort george.
[en. b.c. reg. 51/2019.] Amount of grants 33 (1) The payment of any grant under this part is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) A grant may be made by the minister for the purposes referred to in Section 32 and the amount of a grant is in the discretion of the Minister and may be made on the basis of a fixed amount.
[en. b.c. reg. 51/2019.] Conditions of grants 34 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this part may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) For a grant to a regional district, that the regional district, (i) Before the end of the calendar year in which the grant is received, (a) Fully allocates the grant funds to one or more regional district Services, and (b) Places the allocated funds in a reserve fund associated with the Service, and (ii) Provides a report, in accordance with the direction of the minister, Respecting the allocation; (b) For a grant to a municipality, that the municipality, (i) Before the end of the calendar year in which the grant is received, Places the grant funds in a dedicated reserve fund, and (ii) Provides annual reports, in accordance with the direction of the Minister, respecting the use of the funds and the balance of the Reserve fund until the balance is nil; (c) For a grant to a regional district or municipality, that the regional District or municipality provides to the minister additional Information and reports respecting the use of the grant as requested By the minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 51/2019.] Part 6 — covid-19 safe restart grants Eligibility
35 A municipality or regional district is eligible for a conditional Grant under this part to assist with costs in respect of the covid-19 Pandemic, as defined in the Covid-19 related measures act , including, without limitation, the following:
(a) Facility reopening and operating costs; (b) Emergency planning and response costs; (c) Bylaw enforcement costs; (d) Costs of policing, fire protection and other protective services; (e) Costs of programs and services for persons living with disabilities, Mental illness or addictions, or persons experiencing homelessness or Other vulnerable persons; (f) Computer and other electronic technology costs; (g) Budgeted revenues that have not been collected.
[en. b.c. reg. 265/2020.] Amount of grants 36 (1) The payment of any grant under this part is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) A grant may be made by the minister for the purpose referred to in Section 35 and the amount of a grant is in the discretion of the Minister and may be made on the basis of a fixed amount.
[en. b.c. reg. 265/2020.] Conditions of grants 37 (1) In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister But subject to subsection (2), a grant under this part may be made on One or more of the following conditions:
(a) That a municipality or regional district provide annual reports, in Accordance with the direction of the minister, respecting the use of The grant funds until the balance of those funds is nil; (b) That a municipality or regional district provide to the minister Additional information and reports respecting the use of the grant as Requested by the minister.
(2) A grant may not be made under this part after March 31, 2021.
[en. b.c. reg. 265/2020.] Part 7 — non-application conditional grants Eligibility
38 A municipality or regional district is eligible for a conditional Grant under this part in relation to matters referred to in Section 4 (1) of the act.
[en. b.c. reg. 48/2023.] Amount of grants 39 (1) The payment of any grant under this part is subject to an Appropriation.
(2) A grant may be made by the minister for the purposes referred to in Section 38 and the amount of a grant is in the discretion of the Minister and may be made on the basis of a fixed amount.
[en. b.c. reg. 48/2023.] Conditions of grants 40 In addition to any terms and conditions established by the minister, a Grant under this part may be made on one or more of the following Conditions:
(a) For a grant to a regional district, that the regional district, (i) Before the end of the calendar year in which the grant is received, (a) Fully allocates the grant funds to one or more regional district Services, and (b) Places the allocated funds in a reserve fund associated with the Service, and (ii) Provides a report, in accordance with the direction of the minister, Respecting the allocation; (b) For a grant to a municipality, that the municipality, (i) Before the end of the calendar year in which the grant is received, Places the grant funds in a dedicated reserve fund, and (ii) Provides annual reports, in accordance with the direction of the Minister, respecting the use of the funds and the balance of the Reserve fund until the balance is nil; (c) For a grant to a regional district or municipality, that the regional District or municipality provides to the minister additional Information and reports respecting the use of the grant as requested By the minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 48/2023.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local government grants act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 275, s. 7.]