B.c. reg. 309/2016 O.c. 919/2016 Deposited december 8, 2016 Effective december 8, 2016 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local elections campaign financing act Local elections campaign financing prior to 2022 general local election regulation [last amended december 1, 2021 by b.c. reg. 280/2021] Part 1 — general Definitions
1 (1) In this regulation:
"act" Means the Local elections campaign financing act ; "shared non-election assent voting advertising" Means non-election assent voting advertising sponsored jointly by 2 or More non-election assent voting advertising sponsors, such that a Portion of the total value of the non-election assent voting Advertising attributed to each sponsor under section 33 (6) [valuation rules for third party advertising] Of the act is non-election assent voting advertising of each of the Sponsors participating in the non-election assent voting advertising.
(2) In the act and this regulation, "incur" Means, in relation to an election expense, using property or services In such a manner that the value of the property or services is an Election expense.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 1.] Application
2 This regulation does not apply in relation to the following:
(a) Assent voting or an election held before the 2018 general local Election;
(b) The 2022 general local election; (c) Assent voting or an election held after the 2022 general local Election.
[en. b.c. reg. 280/2021, s. 2.] Prescribed elections 3 (1) For the purposes of section 1 (1) (i) [elections to which this act applies] Of the act, the following elections are prescribed:
(a) An election under the Local government act For a local community commissioner; (b) An election under the Local government act For a rural water councillor as provided for by order in council 1870/89; (c) An election under the Local government act For a water councillor as provided for by order in council 1870/89; (d) An election under the Resort municipality of whistler act For the mayor; (e) An election under the Resort municipality of whistler act For a councillor; (f) An election under the Sechelt indian government district enabling act For a member of the advisory council; (g) An election under The cultus lake park act For a commissioner.
(2) In relation to the paragraph of subsection (1) referred to in column 1 Of the following table, for an election for the class of office Referred to in column 2 of the table, the jurisdiction in relation to The election is that referred to in column 3 of the table and the Local authority in relation to the election is that referred to in Column 4 of the table:
Column 1
Paragraph
Column 2
Office
Column 3
Jurisdiction
Column 4
Local authority (a) Local community commissioner Regional district The board (b) Rural water councillor Town of oliver The council (c) Water councillor Town of osoyoos The council (d) Mayor
Resort municipality of whistler The council (e) Councillor
Resort municipality of whistler The council (f) Member of the advisory council Advisory council Advisory council (g) Commissioner
Cultus lake park board Cultus lake park board [am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 1.] Repealed
4 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 2.] Election area 5 For the purposes of the definition of "election area" in the schedule To the act, the election area, (a) In relation to an election under The cultus lake park act , means the area for which an election is held under that act; (b) In relation to an election under the Resort municipality of whistler act , means the area for which an election is held under that act; (c) In relation to an election under the Sechelt indian government district enabling act , means the area for which an election is held under that act.
Classes of election expenses 6 The following classes of election expenses are established for the Purposes of complying with disclosure requirements for candidates and Elector organizations in relation to election expenses:
(a) Advertising expenses for (i) Brochures, pamphlets, flyers and similar forms of advertising, (ii) Newspaper, magazine, journal and similar forms of advertising, (iii) Radio,
(iv) Signs, such as lawn signs and billboards, and similar forms of Advertising,
(v) Television,
(vi) The internet, and (vii) Other forms of advertising not covered by subparagraphs (i) to (vi); (b) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 2.] (c) Campaign administration expenses for (i) Salaries and wages, (ii) Rent, insurance and utilities, (iii) Courier services and postage, (iv) Furniture and equipment, (v) Office supplies, (vi) Professional services, and (vii) Other campaign administration items not covered by subparagraphs (i) To (vi); (d) Convention and similar meeting expenses; (e) Expenses for campaign related functions not covered by paragraph (d); (f) Research and polling expenses; (g) Interest expenses; (h) Other.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 2.] Classes of election period expenses and classes of campaign period Expenses
7 The classes of election expenses established under section 6 apply for The purposes of complying with disclosure requirements for candidates And elector organizations in relation to election period expenses and Campaign period expenses.
Classes of third party advertising and classes of non-election assent Voting advertising 8 The following classes of third party advertising and classes of Non-election assent voting advertising are established for the Purposes of complying with disclosure requirements for third party Sponsors in relation to third party advertising and for assent voting Advertising sponsors in relation to non-election assent voting Advertising:
(a) Brochures, pamphlets, flyers and similar forms of advertising; (b) Newspaper, magazine, journal and similar forms of advertising; (c) Radio;
(d) Signs, such as lawn signs and billboards, and similar forms of Advertising;
(e) Television;
(f) Internet;
(g) Other.
Prescribed transmissions 9 (1) In this section, "placement cost" Means the following:
(a) The price paid for advertising space on the internet; (b) If no price is paid, or if the price paid is less than market value, The value of advertising space on the internet that is provided as a Campaign contribution or sponsorship contribution, as applicable.
(2) For the purposes of section 7 (2) (e) [what is not election advertising] Of the act, the following transmissions are prescribed:
(a) A transmission of a communication on the internet that does not have a Placement cost and that promotes or opposes, directly or indirectly, (i) The election of a candidate, or (ii) An elector organization that is endorsing a candidate or is an Established elector organization, including a communication that takes A position on an issue with which the candidate or elector Organization is associated; (b) Assent voting advertising that is transmitted on the internet that Would be election advertising under section 8 (3) [assent voting advertising that is election advertising] Of the act and that does not have a placement cost.
(3) For the purposes of section 8 (5) (e) [what is not non-election assent voting advertising] Of the act, a transmission on the internet, that does not have a Placement cost, of a communication that promotes or opposes, directly Or indirectly, a particular result in assent voting is prescribed.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 3.] Part 2 — candidate and elector organization campaign financing Repealed
10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 2.] Election expenses of candidates and elector organizations 10.1 (1) As an exception to section 14 (5) (a) [exclusions from election expenses] Of the act, the value of the use of the following property is an Election expense of a candidate or elector organization, as Applicable, in relation to an election if that property was used in a Previous election campaign of that candidate or elector organization:
(a) A sign, poster or banner; (b) Other promotional material.
(2) As an exception to section 14 (6) (e) [day-to-day administration of a continuing elector organization] Of the act, (a) The value of property and services used exclusively for the day-to-day Administration of an elector organization office that operates on a Continuing basis outside of campaign periods or election periods, Including salaries and wages paid by the elector organization to its Permanent staff, is an election expense when incurred during campaign Periods or election periods, and (b) An election expense under paragraph (a) of this subsection is not Included when determining if the election expense limit for a Candidate endorsed by the elector organization exceeds the expense Limit for the candidate.
(3) The value of property and services described in subsection (2) (a) of This section used before the date this section comes into force must Be disclosed in accordance with section 44 [information respecting exclusions from elector organization Election period expenses] Of this regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 89/2018, s. 1.] Attribution of shared election expenses to participating candidates 11 (1) The value of shared election expenses that are election period Expenses must be attributed to a participating candidate in accordance With the proportion of the value of the property or services used that The participating candidate must disclose under the act as an election Period expense under the act.
(2) The value of shared election expenses that are campaign period Expenses must be attributed to a participating candidate in accordance With the proportion of the value of the property or services used that The participating candidate must disclose under the act as a campaign Period expense under the act.
Permitted payments and deposits — candidate 12 (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, for the purposes of section 18 (5) (h) [requirement for candidate campaign account] Of the act, a campaign account may be used for paying the total value Or a portion of the total value of a shared election expense.
(2) A campaign account may be used for the payment described in subsection (1) of this section only if the shared election expense is incurred With the consent of the financial agent of each participating Candidate who must reimburse the financial agent of the participating Candidate making that payment.
(3) For the purposes of section 18 (6) (b) of the act, the following may Be deposited into a campaign account of the candidate:
(a) In respect of a campaign account at a credit union, dividends of Shares paid by the credit union; (b) A payment received from the financial agent of another participating Candidate for reimbursement of an election expense that is a shared Election expense; (c) If
(i) The candidate sells non-monetary property or services for the purpose Of obtaining funds for campaign use, and (ii) The candidate (a) Acquired the property or services as referred to in section 13 (1) (a) [campaign contribution provided without compensation] Of the act, (b) Acquired the property or services as referred to in section 13 (1) (b) [campaign contribution if provided at less than market value] Of the act, (c) Made a payment as referred to in section 18 (5) (g) [incidental expenses] Of the act to acquire the property or services with the intention of Selling that property or those services for the purpose of obtaining Funds for campaign use, or (d) Acquired the property or services other than for campaign use, The proceeds of the sale, to the extent that these are not campaign Contributions required to be deposited into a campaign account of the Candidate;
(d) A payment by an eligible individual of $50 or less for one or more Charges per individual for a fundraising function.
(e) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 4 (c).] [am. b.c. regs. 36/2017, s. 4; 232/2017, s. 4.] Permitted payments and deposits — elector organization 13 (1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 5 (a).] (2) For the purposes of section 20 (6) (b) of the act, the following may Be deposited into a campaign account of the elector organization:
(a) In respect of a campaign account at a credit union, dividends of Shares paid by the credit union; (b) If
(i) The elector organization sells non-monetary property or services for The purpose of obtaining funds for campaign use, and (ii) The elector organization (a) Acquired the property or services as referred to in section 13 (1) (a) [campaign contribution provided without compensation] Of the act, (b) Acquired the property or services as referred to in section 13 (1) (b) [campaign contribution if provided at less than market value] Of the act, (c) Made a payment as referred to in section 20 (5) (f) [incidental expenses] Of the act to acquire the property or services with the intention of Selling that property or those services for the purpose of obtaining Funds for campaign use, or (d) Acquired the property or services other than for campaign use, The proceeds of the sale, to the extent that these are not campaign Contributions required to be deposited into a campaign account of the Elector organization; (c) A payment by an eligible individual of $50 or less for one or more Charges per individual for a fundraising function.
(d) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 5 (b).] [am. b.c. regs. 36/2017, s. 5; 232/2017, s. 5.] Amount-available information that must be recorded 14 For the purposes of section 22 (2) (g) [recording requirements] Of the act, the financial agent of an elector organization must record The following:
(a) The amount that is available for use by the elector organization During the campaign period in the election campaign of the endorsing Elector organization as set out in the campaign financing arrangement Between the elector organization and a candidate endorsed by the Elector organization; (b) If the campaign financing arrangement referred to in paragraph (a) is Amended under section 63.10 [amendment to and termination of campaign financing arrangement] Of the act, the amended amount that is available for use by the Elector organization during the campaign period in the election Campaign of the endorsing elector organization; (c) The date that the campaign financing arrangement referred to in Paragraph (a) is signed by the candidate, the date it is signed by the Financial agent of the candidate, if the candidate has a financial Agent, and the date it is signed by the financial agent of the elector Organization;
(d) If the campaign financing arrangement referred to in paragraph (a) is Amended under section 63.10 of the act, the date the amendment is Signed by the candidate, the date it is signed by the financial agent Of the candidate, if the candidate has a financial agent, and the date It is signed by the financial agent of the elector organization; (e) If a candidate endorsed by the elector organization terminates the Campaign financing arrangement and delivers a copy of the notification Of termination to the elector organization, the date the candidate Signed the notification of termination.
Repealed
15-18 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 6.] Part 3 — third party election advertising Third party advertising limits 19 (1) For the purposes of section 41.1 (a) (i) [third party advertising limits — population less than 15 000] Of the act, the prescribed amount is $750.
(2) For the purposes of section 41.1 (a) (ii) [third party advertising limits — population 15 000 or more] Of the act, the third party advertising limit for third party Advertising that is directed advertising is determined as follows:
(a) The amount in respect of an election under the Local government act Or the Vancouver charter For mayor and an election under those acts for councillor for the Applicable election area is, in total, the greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for mayor; (b) The amount in respect of an election under the Local government act For an electoral area director for the applicable election area is the Greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for electoral area director; (c) The amount in respect of an election under the Vancouver charter For a vancouver park board member for the applicable election area is The greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for vancouver park board Member;
(d) The amount in respect of an election under the Islands trust act For a local trust area trustee for the applicable election area is the Greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for local trust area Trustee;
(e) The amount in respect of an election under the School act For a trustee on a board of education for the applicable election area Is the greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for trustee on a board of Education;
(f) The amount in respect of an election under the School act For a regional trustee of a francophone education authority is 5% of The amount prescribed by section 65 [expense limits — francophone education authority] ; (g) The amount in respect of an election under The cultus lake park act For a commissioner for the applicable election area is the greater of The following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for commissioner; (h) The amount in respect of an election under the Local government act For a local community commissioner for the applicable election area is The greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for local community Commissioner;
(i) The amount in respect of an election under the Local government act For a rural water councillor as provided for by order in council 1870/89 for the applicable election area is the greater of the Following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for rural water councillor; (j) The amount in respect of an election under the Local government act For a water councillor as provided for by order in council 1870/89 for The applicable election area is the greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for water councillor; (k) The amount in respect of an election under the Resort municipality of whistler act For mayor or for councillor for the applicable election area, in Total, is the greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for mayor; (l) The amount in respect of an election under the Sechelt indian government district enabling act For a member of the advisory council for the applicable election area Is the greater of the following:
(i) $750; (ii) 5% of the expense limit for the candidate for member of the advisory Council.
(3) For the purposes of section 41.1 (b) [cumulative third party advertising limit] Of the act, the prescribed amount is $150 000.
Attribution of shared third party advertising to participating third Party sponsors 20 The value of shared third party advertising must be attributed to the Participating third party sponsors in accordance with the amount paid By each participating third party sponsor for the shared third party Advertising.
Attribution of value of directed advertising to third party Advertising limit 21 (1) In this section:
"applicable third party advertising limit" Means the third party advertising limit in a relevant election area; "coverage" , in relation to directed advertising, means the following:
(a) The amount of space used to promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, A candidate or elector organization; (b) The amount of time used to promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, A candidate or elector organization; "relevant election area" Means an election area in relation to which third party advertising Specifically relates to a candidate or elector organization that is Undertaking an election campaign.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), if a single third party sponsor sponsors Directed advertising that specifically relates to one or more Candidates, one or more elector organizations or one or more of both Candidates and elector organizations in 2 or more election areas, the Third party sponsor must attribute the value of the directed Advertising to the applicable third party advertising limit on a Reasonable basis in proportion to the coverage of the candidate or Elector organization in the directed advertising.
(3) If a single third party sponsor sponsors directed advertising that Specifically relates to an elector organization that endorses Candidates in 2 or more election areas and that is not specifically Related to candidates, the third party sponsor must attribute the Value of the directed advertising to the applicable third party Advertising limit as follows:
(a) The sponsor must determine the number of election areas in which the Elector organization endorses candidates and to which the directed Advertising relates; (b) The sponsor must divide the value of the directed advertising by the Number determined under paragraph (a); (c) The sponsor must attribute the amount determined under paragraph (b) To each applicable third party advertising limit.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), if 2 or more third party sponsors sponsor Shared third party advertising that is directed advertising that Specifically relates to one or more candidates, one or more elector Organizations or one or more of both candidates and elector Organizations in 2 or more election areas, the third party sponsors Must attribute the value of the directed advertising to the applicable Third party advertising limit as follows:
(a) The sponsors must attribute the value of the directed advertising to The applicable third party advertising limit on a reasonable basis in Proportion to the coverage of the candidate or elector organization in The directed advertising; (b) The sponsors must express the amount paid by each sponsor as a Percentage of the total value of the directed advertising; (c) The sponsors must multiply the value attributed under paragraph (a) by The percentages under paragraph (b) for each relevant election area; (d) The sponsors must attribute, in relation to each sponsor, the amount Determined under paragraph (c) to the applicable third party Advertising limits.
(5) If 2 or more third party sponsors sponsor shared third party Advertising that is directed advertising that specifically relates to An elector organization that endorses candidates in 2 or more election Areas and that is not specifically related to candidates, the third Party sponsors must attribute the value of the directed advertising to The applicable third party advertising limit as follows:
(a) The sponsors must determine the number of election areas in which the Elector organization endorses candidates and to which the directed Advertising relates; (b) The sponsors must divide the value of the directed advertising by the Number determined under paragraph (a); (c) The sponsors must attribute the amount determined under paragraph (b) To each applicable third party advertising limit; (d) The sponsors must express the amount paid by each sponsor as a Percentage of the total value of the directed advertising; (e) The sponsors must multiply the value attributed under paragraph (c) by The percentages under paragraph (d) for each relevant election area; (f) The sponsors must attribute, in relation to each sponsor, the amount Determined under paragraph (e) to the applicable third party Advertising limits.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 6.] Repealed
22 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 7.] Part 4 — non-election assent voting advertising Attribution of shared non-election assent voting advertising to Participating sponsors 23 The value of shared non-election assent voting advertising must be Attributed to the participating sponsors in accordance with the amount Paid by each participating sponsor for the shared non-election assent Voting advertising.
Part 5 — transparency requirements for local elections and assent voting Division 1 — sponsorship of election advertising and assent voting Advertising
When advertising sponsorship information not required 24 The requirements under section 44 [advertising must include sponsorship information] Of the act do not apply to the following forms of election advertising And non-election assent voting advertising:
(a) Clothing;
(b) Novelty items, including wearable novelty items such as buttons, Badges, wrist bands and necklaces; (c) Small items of nominal value that are intended for personal use.
Internet election advertising 25 (1) In this section:
"internet election advertising" Means election advertising or assent voting advertising that is Transmitted on the internet; "required sponsorship information" Means the information required to be included in election advertising Or assent voting advertising under section 44 (1) [advertising must include sponsorship information] Of the act.
(2) For the purposes of section 44 (1) of the act, an individual or Organization is not prohibited from sponsoring internet election Advertising, or transmitting such advertising to the public, if (a) The internet election advertising includes a link that clearly Indicates that the link will take the internet user to the required Sponsorship information, and (b) The required sponsorship information is displayed once the internet User accesses the link in the internet election advertising.
Division 2
Repealed
26 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 8.] Division 3 — disclosure requirements for candidates General information respecting candidate 27 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting the candidate:
(a) The full name of the candidate and, if this is different, the name Used on the ballot; (b) The election area in relation to which the individual was a candidate; (c) The jurisdiction in relation to which the individual was a candidate; (d) The office for which the individual was a candidate; (e) The required contact information for the candidate.
Information respecting financial agents and campaign accounts of Candidate
28 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting financial agents and campaign accounts of the Candidate:
(a) The full name and required contact information for each individual who Acted as financial agent for the candidate in relation to the election And, if the candidate appointed more than one financial agent, the Effective date of each appointment; (b) The name and address of the savings institution for each campaign Account of the candidate.
Information respecting candidate election period expenses 29 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting election period expenses of the candidate:
(a) The total value of the election period expenses; (b) The total value of the election period expenses in each class of Election expenses; (c) If a total value of the election period expenses is provided in Respect of the class described in section 6 (h) [classes of election expenses] , a description of the election period expenses.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 7.] Information respecting shared election expenses — election period Expenses
30 A candidate disclosure statement for a candidate who participated in Shared election expenses that are election period expenses must Include the following information respecting the shared election Expenses:
(a) The total value of the shared election expenses; (b) The amount paid by the candidate of the total value of the shared Election expenses; (c) The total amount of reimbursements received by the candidate from the Other participating candidate or candidates; (d) The total amount of reimbursements paid by the candidate to the other Participating candidate or candidates; (e) The full names of the other participating candidate or candidates.
Information respecting shared election expenses — campaign period Expenses
31 A candidate disclosure statement for a candidate who participated in Shared election expenses that are campaign period expenses must Include the following information respecting the shared election Expenses:
(a) The total value of the shared election expenses; (b) The amount paid by the candidate of the total value of the shared Election expenses; (c) The total amount of reimbursements received by the candidate from the Other participating candidate or candidates; (d) The total amount of reimbursements paid by the candidate to the other Participating candidate or candidates; (e) The full names of the other participating candidate or candidates.
Information respecting candidate campaign period expenses 32 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting campaign period expenses of the candidate:
(a) The total value of the campaign period expenses; (b) The total value of the campaign period expenses in each class of Election expenses; (c) If a total value of the campaign period expenses is provided in Respect of the class described in section 6 (h) [classes of election expenses] , a description of the campaign period expenses.
Information respecting exclusions from candidate election period Expenses
33 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting exclusions from election period expenses of the Candidate:
(a) The total value of exclusions under section 14 (6) [election expenses of candidates] Of the act; (b) The total value of each applicable exclusion described in section 14 (6) of the act.
Information respecting exclusions from candidate campaign period Expenses
34 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting exclusions from campaign period expenses of the Candidate:
(a) The total value of exclusions under section 14 (6) [election expenses of candidates] Of the act; (b) The total value of each applicable exclusion described in section 14 (6) of the act.
Information respecting campaign contributions to candidate 35 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting campaign contributions received by the Candidate:
(a) The total value of the campaign contributions; (b) The total value of the campaign contributions, other than anonymous Campaign contributions; (c) The total value of anonymous campaign contributions and the total Number of contributors that made those contributions; (d) For each campaign contribution made by a significant contributor, the Information referred to in section 29 (1) [campaign contribution information that must be recorded] Of the act; (e) For each campaign contribution to which section 28 [dealing with prohibited campaign contributions] Of the act applies, the information referred to in section 29 (2) of The act, other than the address of an individual; (f) For campaign contributions not referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of this section, the total value of the campaign contributions Received and the total number of contributors that made those Contributions;
(g) If section 30.05 (7) (a) [campaign contributions — elector organizations and endorsed Candidates]
Of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent returned the campaign contribution, (ii) The amount of the campaign contribution, and (iii) The full name of the contributor; (h) If section 30.05 (7) (b) of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent made the payment, (ii) The amount of the payment, and (iii) The full name of the contributor.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 9.] Information respecting fundraising functions — candidate 35.1 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting a fundraising function held by or on behalf of The candidate:
(a) A description of the fundraising function; (b) The date the fundraising function was held; (c) The charge per individual for the fundraising function; (d) The total value of the campaign contributions made through payments of Charges per individual for the fundraising function and the total Number of eligible individuals who made those contributions; (e) The total value of payments of $50 or less for charges per individual For the fundraising function and the total number of eligible Individuals who made those payments.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 10.] Information respecting candidate campaign account transactions 36 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting amounts, other than campaign contributions and Election expenses, deposited into or paid from a campaign account of The candidate or transferred between campaign accounts of the Candidate:
(a) The amount and date of each payment under section 24 (2), (3) or (4) [what happens if a candidate has surplus campaign funds] Of the act; (b) The amount and purpose of each deposit, transfer or payment under Section 18 (5) (a), (g) or (h) [requirement for candidate campaign account] Of the act; (c) The total amount of transfers under section 18 (5) (b) of the act in Relation to each campaign account; (d) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 11 (a).] (d.1) The amount and date of each payment on a permissible loan under Section 18 (5) (g.1) of the act; (e) The amount and purpose of each payment for an intended election Expense that did not become an election expense; (f) The amount of each payment made from a campaign account for the Purposes of obtaining funds for campaign use, other than obtaining Funds by way of a permissible loan; (g) The amount and purpose of each deposit under section 18 (6) (a) of the Act;
(g.1) The amount and date of each deposit under section 18 (6) (a.1) of the Act;
(h) The amount and purpose of each deposit under section 18 (6) (b) of the act.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 11.] Information respecting property or services 37 (1) A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting property or services provided by the Jurisdiction in relation to which an election is being held:
(a) The amount and date of each payment under section 24 (5) (a) [what happens if a candidate has surplus campaign funds] Of the act; (b) In relation to any free election advertising transmission referred to In section 13 (6) (b) (ii) [campaign contributions to candidate or elector organization] Of the act, (i) The specific means by which the election advertising was transmitted To the public, and (ii) The jurisdiction that provided the election advertising.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 12.] [am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 12.] Information respecting loans to candidates 37.1 A candidate disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting a loan made to the candidate for campaign use:
(a) If the candidate accepted the loan in contravention of section 27.02 (1) or (2) [restrictions on loans for campaign use] Of the act, (i) The circumstances in which the loan was accepted, (ii) The information required under section 22 (1.1) [recording requirements for loans] Of the act, other than the residential address of the lender, and (iii) When and how the loan was dealt with in accordance with section 27.02 (3) of the act; (b) If section 30.05 (7) (c) [campaign contributions — elector organizations and endorsed Candidates]
Of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent paid the amount of the permissible loan, (ii) The amount of the permissible loan paid, and (iii) If the lender is an eligible individual, the full name of the lender.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 13.] Additional disclosure requirements for endorsed candidates and Candidates who sought endorsement 38 (1) A candidate disclosure statement for a candidate who was endorsed by An elector organization must include the following information:
(a) The name, abbreviation or acronym the elector organization used on the Ballot;
(b) If different from the information provided under paragraph (a), the Legal name of the elector organization; (c) In relation to any transfer from the candidate to the elector Organization under section 23 (1) [campaign transfers between candidates and elector organizations] Of the act, the amount and date of each transfer; (d) In relation to any transfer from the elector organization to the Candidate under section 23 (2) of the act, the amount and date of each Transfer;
(e) In relation to any transfer of non-monetary property or services Between the candidate and the elector organization that are excluded From being campaign contributions under section 13 (6) (a) (ii) or (iii) [campaign contributions to candidate or elector organization] Of the act, (i) The value of the non-monetary property or services provided or Received,
(ii) The date the non-monetary property or services were provided or Received, and (iii) A description of the non-monetary property or services provided or Received.
(2) A candidate disclosure statement for a candidate who sought Endorsement from an elector organization but was not endorsed must Include the following information if property or services were Transferred between the candidate and the elector organization:
(a) The name, abbreviation or acronym the elector organization used on the Ballot;
(b) If different from the information provided under paragraph (a), the Legal name of the elector organization; (c) In relation to any transfer from the elector organization to the Candidate under section 23 (4) (a) or (5) of the act, the amount and Date of each transfer; (d) In relation to any transfer from the candidate to the elector Organization under section 23 (4) (b) of the act, the amount and date Of each transfer.
Division 4 — disclosure requirements for elector organizations General information respecting elector organization 39 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting the elector organization:
(a) The name of the elector organization and, if this is different, the Legal name of the elector organization; (b) If different from the information provided under paragraph (a), the Name, abbreviation or acronym the elector organization used on the Ballot;
(c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 14.] (d) The jurisdiction in relation to which the elector organization Disclosure statement is being filed; (e) The full name and required contact information for the authorized Principal official of the elector organization and the full names and Mailing addresses of the other responsible principal officials of the Elector organization.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 14.] Information respecting endorsed candidates 40 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting a candidate endorsed by the elector Organization:
(a) The full name of the candidate in relation to whom the elector Organization filed endorsement documents and, if this is different, The name the candidate used on the ballot; (b) The office for which the individual described in paragraph (a) was a Candidate;
(c) The election area in relation to which the individual described in Paragraph (a) was a candidate.
Information respecting financial agents and campaign accounts of Elector organization 41 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting financial agents and campaign Accounts of the elector organization:
(a) The full name and required contact information for each individual who Acted as financial agent for the elector organization in relation to The election and, if the elector organization appointed more than one Financial agent, the effective date of each appointment; (b) The name and address of the savings institution for each campaign Account of the elector organization.
Information respecting elector organization election period expenses 42 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting election period expenses of the Elector organization:
(a) The total value of the election period expenses; (b) The total value of the election period expenses in each class of Election expenses; (c) If a total value of the election period expenses is provided in Respect of the class described in section 6 (h) [classes of election expenses] , a description of the election period expenses.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 8.] Information respecting elector organization campaign period expenses 43 (1) Subject to subsection (2), an elector organization disclosure Statement must include the following information respecting campaign Period expenses of the elector organization:
(a) The total value of the campaign period expenses; (b) For each candidate endorsed by the elector organization, the total Value of the campaign period expenses attributable to each candidate's Expense limit; (c) For each candidate endorsed by the elector organization, the total Value of the campaign period expenses attributable to each candidate's Expense limit in each class of election expenses; (d) If a total value of the campaign period expenses attributable to a Candidate's expense limit is provided in respect of the class Described in section 6 (h) [classes of election expenses] , a description of the campaign period expenses.
(2) An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting campaign period expenses of the Elector organization that are election expenses under section 10.1 (2) (a) [value of day-to-day property and services used exclusively for Day-to-day administration of continuing elector organization] :
(a) The total value of the campaign period expenses in each class of Election expenses; (b) If a total value of the campaign period expenses is provided in Respect of the class described in section 6 (h) [classes of election expenses] , a description of the campaign period expenses.
[am. b.c. regs. 36/2017, s. 9; 89/2018, s. 2.] Information respecting exclusions from elector organization election Period expenses 44 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting exclusions from election period Expenses of the elector organization:
(a) The total value of exclusions under section 14 (6) [election expenses of elector organization] Of the act; (b) The total value of each applicable exclusion described in section 14 (6) of the act.
Information respecting exclusions from elector organization campaign Period expenses 45 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting exclusions from campaign period Expenses of the elector organization:
(a) The total value of exclusions under section 14 (6) [election expenses of elector organization] Of the act; (b) The total value of each applicable exclusion described in section 14 (6) of the act.
Information respecting campaign contributions to elector organization 46 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting campaign contributions received by The elector organization:
(a) The total value of the campaign contributions; (b) The total value of the campaign contributions, other than anonymous Campaign contributions; (c) The total value of anonymous campaign contributions and the total Number of contributors that made those contributions; (d) For each campaign contribution made by a significant contributor, the Information referred to in section 29 (1) [campaign contribution information that must be recorded] Of the act; (e) For each campaign contribution to which section 28 [dealing with prohibited campaign contributions] Of the act applies, the information referred to in section 29 (2) of The act, other than the address of an individual; (f) For campaign contributions not referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of this section, the total value of the campaign contributions Received and the total number of contributors that made those Contributions;
(g) If section 30.05 (5) (a) [campaign contributions — elector organizations and endorsed Candidates]
Of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent returned the campaign contribution, (ii) The amount of the campaign contribution, and (iii) The full name of the contributor; (h) If section 30.05 (5) (b) of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent made the payment, (ii) The amount of the payment, and (iii) The full name of the contributor.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 15.] Information respecting fundraising functions — elector organizations 46.1 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting a fundraising function held by or on Behalf of the elector organization:
(a) A description of the fundraising function; (b) The date the fundraising function was held; (c) The charge per individual for the fundraising function; (d) The total value of the campaign contributions made through payments of Charges per individual for the fundraising function and the total Number of eligible individuals who made those contributions; (e) The total value of payments of $50 or less for charges per individual For the fundraising function and the total number of eligible Individuals who made those payments.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 16.] Repealed
47 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 17.] Information respecting elector organization campaign account Transactions
48 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting amounts, other than campaign Contributions and election expenses, deposited into or paid from a Campaign account of the elector organization or transferred between Campaign accounts of the elector organization:
(a) The amount and date of each payment under section 25 [what happens if an elector organization has surplus campaign funds] Of the act; (b) The amount and date of each payment on a permissible loan under Section 20 (5) (f.1) [requirement for elector organization campaign account] Of the act; (b.1) The amount and date of each deposit under section 20 (6) (a.1) of the Act;
(c) The amount and purpose of each deposit under section 20 (6) (b) of the Act;
(d) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 18 (d).] (e) The amount and purpose of each payment for an intended election Expense that did not become an election expense; (f) The amount of each payment made from a campaign account for the Purposes of obtaining funds for campaign use, other than obtaining Funds by way of a permissible loan; (g) The total amounts of transfers under section 20 (5) (a) of the act in Relation to each campaign account; (h) The amount and purpose of each deposit under section 18 (6) (a) of the Act.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 18.] Information respecting transfers between candidates and elector Organizations
49 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting transfers of property or provision of Services between a candidate and the elector organization:
(a) In relation to any transfer from the candidate to the elector Organization under section 23 (1) or (4) (b) [campaign transfers between candidates and elector organizations] Of the act, the amount and date of each transfer and the full name of The candidate; (b) In relation to any transfer from the elector organization to the Candidate under section 23 (2), (4) (a) or (5) of the act, the amount And date of each transfer and the full name of the candidate; (c) In relation to any transfer of non-monetary property or services Between the candidate and the elector organization that are excluded From being campaign contributions under section 13 (6) (a) (ii) or (iii) [campaign contributions to candidate or elector organization] Of the act, (i) The value of the non-monetary property or services provided or Received,
(ii) The date the non-monetary property or services were provided or Received,
(iii) The full name of the candidate who provided or received the Non-monetary property or services, and (iv) A description of the non-monetary property or services provided or Received.
Information respecting loans to elector organizations 50 An elector organization disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting a loan made to the elector Organization for campaign use:
(a) If the elector organization accepted the loan in contravention of Section 27.02 (1) or (2) [restrictions on loans for campaign use] Of the act, (i) The circumstances in which the loan was accepted, (ii) The information required under section 22 (1.1) [recording requirements for loans] Of the act, other than the residential address of the lender, and (iii) When and how the loan was dealt with in accordance with section 27.02 (3) of the act; (b) If section 30.05 (5) (c) [campaign contributions — elector organizations and endorsed Candidates
] of the act applies, (i) The date the financial agent paid the amount of the permissible loan, (ii) The amount of the permissible loan paid, and (iii) If the lender is an eligible individual, the full name of the lender.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 19.] Division 5 — disclosure requirements for third party sponsors General information respecting third party sponsor 51 A third party sponsor disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting the third party sponsor:
(a) If the third party sponsor is an individual, (i) The full name of the individual and, if this is different, the usual Name of the individual, and (ii) The required contact information for the individual; (b) If the third party sponsor is an organization, (i) The name of the organization and, if this is different, the legal name Of the organization, (ii) Any abbreviations, acronyms and other names of the organization, and (iii) The full name and required contact information for the authorized Principal official of the organization and the full names and mailing Addresses of the other responsible principal officials of the Organization;
(c) If the third party sponsor is a candidate or an elector organization In relation to an election that is being held at the same time as the Election for which the third party sponsor is a third party sponsor, The jurisdiction in relation to which the third party sponsor is a Candidate or an elector organization and the election area in relation To which the third party sponsor is a candidate or an elector Organization.
Information respecting sponsored third party advertising 52 A third party sponsor disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting sponsored third party advertising:
(a) The total value of the third party advertising; (b) The total value of the third party advertising in each class of third Party advertising; (c) If a total value of the third party advertising is provided, under Paragraph (b) of this section, in respect of the class described in Section 8 (g) [classes of third party advertising and classes of non-election Assent voting advertising] A description of the third party advertising; (d) The total value of the third party advertising that is directed Advertising in each election area; (e) The total value of the third party advertising that is directed Advertising in each class of third party advertising in each election Area;
(f) If a total value of the third party advertising that is directed Advertising is provided, under paragraph (e) of this section, in Respect of the class described in section 8 (g) a description of the Third party advertising; (g) The jurisdiction in relation to which the third party sponsor Sponsored directed advertising.
Information respecting third party sponsor's own funds 53 A third party sponsor disclosure statement must include the total Value of the third party sponsor's own funds, other than funds Received by way of a sponsorship contribution, used to pay for third Party advertising.
Information respecting sponsorship contributions to third party Sponsor
54 A third party sponsor disclosure statement must include the following Information respecting sponsorship contributions received by the third Party sponsor:
(a) The total value of the sponsorship contributions; (b) The total value of the sponsorship contributions, other than anonymous Sponsorship contributions; (c) The total value of anonymous sponsorship contributions and the total Number of contributors that made those contributions; (d) For sponsorship contributions made by a significant contributor, the Information referred to in section 36 (1) [records of sponsorship contributions and sponsored advertising] Of the act; (e) For each sponsorship contribution to which section 35 [dealing with prohibited sponsorship contributions] Of the act applies, the information referred to in section 36 (2) of The act, other than the address of an individual; (f) For sponsorship contributions not referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of this section, the total value of the sponsorship contributions Received and the total number of contributors that made those Contributions.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 20.] Information respecting loans to third party sponsors 54.1 A third party sponsor disclosure statement must include the following Information if the third party sponsor accepted a loan in Contravention of section 34.03 (1) [restrictions on loans for sponsorship use] Of the act:
(a) The circumstances in which the loan was accepted; (b) When and how the loan was dealt with in accordance with section 34.03 (2) of the act; (c) The information required under section 36 (2.1) [records of sponsorship contributions — loans] Of the act, other than the residential address of the lender.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 21.] Information respecting shared third party advertising 55 A third party sponsor disclosure statement for a third party sponsor That participated in shared third party advertising must include the Following information in relation to each time the third party sponsor Sponsors third party advertising jointly with one or more other third Party sponsors:
(a) The total value of the third party advertising; (b) The total amount of the third party advertising that was paid for by The third party sponsor; (c) The names of the other participating third party sponsors as those Names appear in the sponsorship information required under section 44 (1) [advertising must include sponsorship information] Of the act.
Limited disclosure for limited third party advertising 56 Despite this division, a third party sponsor disclosure statement for A third party sponsor to which section 51 (3) [third party disclosure statement — information and other Requirements]
Of the act applies must include only the following:
(a) The information listed in section 51 [general information respecting third party sponsor] Of this regulation; (b) A statement confirming that the total value of the third party Advertising sponsored by the third party sponsor is less than $500.
Division 6 — disclosure requirements for non-election assent voting Advertising sponsors General information respecting non-election assent voting advertising Sponsor
57 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting the assent voting advertising Sponsor:
(a) If the assent voting advertising sponsor is an individual, (i) The full name of the individual and, if this is different, the usual Name of the individual, and (ii) The required contact information for the individual; (b) If the assent voting advertising sponsor is an organization, (i) The name of the organization and, if this is different, the legal name Of the organization, (ii) Any abbreviations, acronyms and other names of the organization, and (iii) The full name and required contact information for the authorized Principal official of the organization and the full names and mailing Addresses of the other responsible principal officials of the Organization;
(c) The jurisdiction in relation to which the non-election assent voting Advertising relates.
Information respecting non-election assent voting advertising 58 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement must include the Following information respecting non-election assent voting Advertising sponsored by the assent voting advertising sponsor:
(a) The total value of the non-election assent voting advertising; (b) The total value of the non-election assent voting advertising in each Class of non-election assent voting advertising; (c) If a total value of the non-election assent voting advertising is Provided in respect of the class described in section 8 (g) [classes of third party advertising and classes of non-election Assent voting advertising] , a description of the non-election assent voting advertising.
Information respecting non-election assent voting advertising Sponsor's own funds 59 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement must include the Total value of the assent voting advertising sponsor's own funds, Other than funds received by way of a sponsorship contribution, used To pay for non-election assent voting advertising.
Information respecting sponsorship contributions to non-election Assent voting advertising sponsor 60 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement for an assent voting Advertising sponsor that sponsors non-election assent voting Advertising must include the following information respecting Sponsorship contributions received by the assent voting advertising Sponsor:
(a) The total value of the sponsorship contributions; (b) The total value of the sponsorship contributions, other than anonymous Sponsorship contributions; (c) The total value of anonymous sponsorship contributions and the total Number of contributors that made those contributions; (d) For sponsorship contributions made by a significant contributor, the Information referred to in section 36 (1) [records of sponsorship contributions and sponsored advertising] Of the act; (e) For each sponsorship contribution to which section 35 [dealing with prohibited sponsorship contributions] Of the act applies, the information referred to in section 36 (2) of The act, other than the address of an individual; (f) For sponsorship contributions not referred to in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of this section, the total value of the sponsorship contributions Received and the total number of contributors that made those Contributions.
[am. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 22.] Information respecting loans to non-election assent voting advertising Sponsors
60.1 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement must include the Following information if the assent voting advertising sponsor Accepted a loan in contravention of section 34.03 (1) [restrictions on loans for sponsorship use] Of the act:
(a) The circumstances in which the loan was accepted; (b) When and how the loan was dealt with in accordance with section 34.03 (2) of the act; (c) The information required under section 36 (2.1) [records of sponsorship contributions — loans] Of the act, other than the residential address of the lender.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 23.] Information respecting shared non-election assent voting advertising 61 An assent voting advertising disclosure statement for an assent voting Advertising sponsor that participated in shared non-election assent Voting advertising must include the following information in relation To each time the assent voting sponsor sponsors non-election assent Voting advertising jointly with one or more other sponsors:
(a) The total value of the non-election assent voting advertising; (b) The total amount of the non-election assent voting advertising that Was paid for by the assent voting advertising sponsor; (c) The names of the other participating assent voting advertising Sponsors as those names appear in the sponsorship information required Under section 44 (1) [advertising must include sponsorship information] Of the act.
Limited disclosure for limited non-election assent voting advertising 62 Despite this division, an assent voting advertising disclosure Statement for an assent voting advertising sponsor to which section 52 (3) [non-election assent voting advertising sponsor disclosure statement — information and other requirements] Of the act applies must include only the following:
(a) The information listed in section 57 [general information respecting non-election assent voting Advertising sponsor] Of this regulation; (b) A statement confirming that the total value of the non-election assent Voting advertising sponsored by the assent voting advertising sponsor Is less than $500.
Division 7 — public access to disclosure information Public access to information in disclosure statements 62.1 As an exception to section 58 (1) (a) and (b) [public access to disclosure information — elections bc Responsibilities]
Of the act, if a disclosure statement or supplementary report Contains, in relation to a permissible loan, the residential address Of an eligible individual, the bc chief electoral officer must not Make that address publicly available or have a copy of that address Available for public inspection at the elections bc office.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 24.] Part 5.1 — campaign contribution limits Campaign contribution limits applicable to candidates in 2018 62.2 (1) This section applies to campaign contribution limits for 2018 in Relation to the 2018 general local election.
(2) Despite section 30.01 (1) [campaign contribution limits for 2017 and 2018] Of the act, a campaign contribution limit of $2 400 (a) Is established for a candidate who is not endorsed by an elector Organization in relation to an election campaign of the candidate, and (b) Is applicable only to the unendorsed candidate in respect of campaign Contributions made by that candidate for use in that candidate's own Election campaign.
(3) In addition to the campaign contribution limit established in section 30.01 (2) of the act, a campaign contribution limit of $1 200 (a) Is established for an elector organization in relation to an election Campaign of the elector organization, and (b) Is applicable, collectively, to all the candidates endorsed by the Elector organization in relation to that election campaign in respect Of campaign contributions made by those candidates for use in that Election campaign.
[en. b.c. reg. 232/2017, s. 25.] Elections to which division 5 of part 2 of the act applies 62.3 For the purposes of section 30.03 [application of division] Of the act, the following elections are prescribed:
(a) The elections referred to in section 1 (1) (a) to (h) [elections to which this act applies] Of the act; (b) The elections referred to in section 3 (1) [prescribed elections] Of this regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 243/2018, s. 1.] Campaign contribution limits 62.4 (0.1) This section applies for the purposes of establishing the campaign Contribution limits for 2019, 2020 and 2021.
(1) For the purposes of this section, the base year is 2019.
(2) For the purposes of section 30.04 (2) [campaign contribution limits for 2019 and subsequent years] Of the act, the prescribed amount for the campaign contribution limit For the base year for a candidate who is not endorsed by an elector Organization in relation to an election campaign of the candidate is $1 200.
(3) For the purposes of section 30.04 (3) of the act, the prescribed Amount for the campaign contribution limit for the base year for any One elector organization and all the candidates endorsed by the Elector organization in relation to an election campaign of the Elector organization is $1 200.
(4) In addition to the campaign contribution limit established in Subsection (2), in a calendar year in which an election takes place, a Campaign contribution limit of $1 200 (a) Is established for a candidate who is not endorsed by an elector Organization in relation to the election campaign of the candidate, And
(b) Is applicable only to the unendorsed candidate in respect of campaign Contributions made by that candidate for use in that candidate's own Election campaign.
(5) In addition to the campaign contribution limit established in Subsection (3), in a calendar year in which an election takes Place, a campaign contribution limit of $1 200 (a) Is established for an elector organization in relation to the election Campaign of the elector organization, and (b) Is applicable, collectively, to all the candidates endorsed by the Elector organization in relation to that election campaign in respect Of campaign contributions made by those candidates for use in that Election campaign.
[en. b.c. reg. 243/2018, s. 1; am. b.c. reg. 280/2021, s. 3.] Part 6 — expense limits Division 1 — establishment of expense limits Expense limits — election area population of less than 10 000 63 (1) For the purposes of section 63.01 (1) (a) [expense limits — candidate for mayor] Of the act, the prescribed amount is $10 000.
(2) For the purposes of section 63.01 (2) (a) [expense limits — candidate for other than mayor] Of the act, the prescribed amount is $5 000.
Expense limits — election area population of 10 000 or more 64 (1) For the purposes of section 63.01 (1) (b) [expense limits — candidate for mayor] Of the act, the amount of the expense limit is determined in Accordance with subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The expense limit for a candidate in an election for mayor is the Total of the following:
(a) $1 for each person up to and including 15 000 persons; (b) $0.55 for each person over 15 000 persons up to and including 150 000 Persons;
(c) $0.60 for each person over 150 000 persons up to and including 250 000 Persons;
(d) $0.15 for each person over 250 000 persons.
(3) For the purposes of section 63.01 (2) (b) [expense limits — candidate for other than mayor] Of the act, the amount of the expense limit is determined in Accordance with subsection (4) of this section.
(4) The expense limit for a candidate in an election, other than in an Election for mayor, is the total of the following:
(a) $0.50 for each person up to and including 15 000 persons; (b) $0.28 for each person over 15 000 persons up to and including 150 000 Persons;
(c) $0.30 for each person over 150 000 persons up to and including 250 000 Persons;
(d) $0.08 for each person over 250 000 persons.
Expense limits — francophone education authority 65 For the purposes of section 63.01 (4) [expense limits — candidate for regional trustee of francophone Education authority] Of the act, the prescribed amount is $25 000.
Division 2 — campaign financing arrangements Requirements for campaign financing arrangement 66 For the purposes of section 63.07 (3) (e) [written campaign financing arrangement required] Of the act, the following matters are prescribed:
(a) The full name of the candidate and, if this is different, the name Used on the ballot; (b) The full name of the financial agent of the candidate, if the Candidate has a financial agent; (c) The name of the elector organization and, if this is different, the Legal name of the elector organization; (d) The full name of the financial agent of the elector organization; (e) The office for which the individual is a candidate; (f) The election area in relation to which the individual is a candidate; (g) The jurisdiction in relation to which the individual is a candidate; (h) The address for service of the candidate that is required to be Provided to the chief election officer under section 90 (1) (c) [other information to be provided by candidate] Of the Local government act ; (i) The address for service of the financial agent of the elector Organization that is required to be included in the appointment of the Financial agent under section 19 (3) [each elector organization must have a financial agent] Of the act; (j) A requirement that the candidate deliver a copy of the completed Campaign financing arrangement, including a copy of a completed Campaign financing arrangement as amended under section 63.10 [amendment to and termination of campaign financing arrangement] Of the act, if applicable as soon as practicable to the address for Service of the financial agent of the elector organization; (k) A requirement that the candidate file a copy of the completed campaign Financing arrangement, including a copy of a completed campaign Financing arrangement as amended under section 63.10 of the act, if Applicable as soon as practicable with the bc chief electoral officer; (l) If a campaign financing arrangement is amended under section 63.10 of The act, (i) The information required under paragraphs (a) to (g) of this section, (ii) The amended amount, if any, that is available for use by the candidate During the campaign period in the election campaign of the candidate, And
(iii) The amended amount, if any, that is available for use by the elector Organization during the campaign period in the election campaign of The endorsing elector organization.
Termination of campaign financing arrangement by candidate 67 (1) For the purposes of section 63.10 (4) [termination of campaign financing arrangement] Of the act, a campaign financing arrangement may be terminated by a Candidate only in accordance with this section.
(2) In order for a campaign financing arrangement to be terminated, the Following steps must be taken:
(a) The candidate must complete the notification in the prescribed form of Termination;
(b) The candidate must deliver a copy of the completed notification of Termination to the address for service of the financial agent of the Elector organization; (c) The financial agent of the elector organization must, as soon as Possible,
(i) Acknowledge, in writing, receipt of the copy of the notification of Termination and sign and date the acknowledgement, (ii) Deliver a copy of the written acknowledgement to the address for Service of the candidate, and (iii) Notify the authorized principal official of the elector organization That the financial agent received notification of termination; (d) The candidate must, as soon as practicable, file a copy of the Notification of termination with the bc chief electoral officer.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) (b), a candidate must deliver a Copy of the notification of termination to the address for service of The financial agent of the elector organization on or before a date That will ensure that the financial agent receives the notification on Or before the day before the start of the campaign period.
(4) Termination of the campaign financing arrangement takes effect on the Following date, whichever occurs first:
(a) The date the financial agent for the elector organization receives the Notification of termination; (b) The day before the start of the campaign period.
(5) When the financial agent of an elector organization receives a Notification of termination under subsection (2) (b), the elector Organization must use best efforts to stop promoting, directly or Indirectly, the election of the candidate.
Termination of campaign financing arrangement by elector organization 68 (1) For the purposes of section 63.10 (4) [termination of campaign financing arrangement] Of the act, a campaign financing arrangement may be terminated by an Elector organization only in accordance with this section.
(2) In order for a campaign financing arrangement to be terminated, the Following steps must be taken:
(a) The financial agent of the elector organization must complete the Notification in the prescribed form of termination; (b) The authorized principal official of the elector organization must Sign and date the notification of termination; (c) The financial agent of the elector organization must deliver a copy of The completed notification of termination to the address for service Of the candidate; (d) The candidate must, as soon as possible, (i) Acknowledge, in writing, receipt of the copy of the notification of Termination and sign and date the acknowledgement, (ii) Deliver a copy of the written acknowledgement to the address for Service of the financial agent of the elector organization, and (iii) If the candidate has a financial agent, the candidate must, as soon as Possible, notify the financial agent that the candidate received Notification of termination; (e) The financial agent of the elector organization must, as soon as Practicable, file a copy of the notification of termination with the Bc chief electoral officer.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) (c), the financial agent of the Elector organization must deliver a copy of the notification of Termination to the address for service of the candidate on or before a Date that will ensure that the candidate receives the notification on Or before the day before the start of the campaign period.
(4) The termination of the campaign financing arrangement takes effect on The following date, whichever occurs first:
(a) The date the candidate receives the notification of termination; (b) The day before the start of the campaign period.
(5) When a candidate receives a notification of termination under Subsection (2) (c), the candidate must use best efforts to stop Promoting, directly or indirectly, the elector organization.
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 10.] Effect in relation to campaign period expenses of endorsement Relationship ending 69 (1) If the circumstance referred to in section 63.11 (1) (a) [withdrawal of candidate] Of the act occurs, the candidate must deliver, as soon as possible After the candidate knows that the minister has approved the Withdrawal of the candidate under section 101 (2) [withdrawal of candidate] Of the Local government act Or section 52 (2) of the Vancouver charter , written notification of the withdrawal of the candidate to the Following:
(a) The address for service of the elector organization; (b) The bc chief electoral officer.
(2) If the circumstance in section 63.11 (1) (b) [candidate incapacitated] Of the act occurs, the local election officer must deliver, at the Same time that the officer notifies the minister responsible under Section 101 (4)
[death or incapacity of candidate] Of the Local government act Or section 52 (4) of the Vancouver charter , written notification of the incapacity or death of the candidate to The following:
(a) The address for service of the elector organization endorsing the Candidate;
(b) The bc chief electoral officer.
(3) If any of the circumstances in section 63.11 (1) of the act apply, an Elector organization must use best efforts to stop promoting, directly Or indirectly, the election of the candidate and incurring campaign Period expenses that would otherwise be attributed to the candidate, Starting on the following dates, as applicable, whichever occurs First:
(a) The date the elector organization receives the notification under Subsection (1) or (2) of this section; (b) The date the elector organization becomes aware of the death of the Candidate.
Division 3 — attribution Attribution of elector organization campaign period expenses 70 (1) If an elector organization endorses more than one candidate, the Campaign period expenses of the elector organization must be Attributed to the expense limit of each candidate endorsed by the Elector organization on a reasonable basis in proportion to the Benefit received by the candidate.
(2) For the purposes of this section, in determining the proportion of the Benefit received by a candidate from campaign period expenses incurred For election advertising, the following factors must be considered:
(a) The amount of space used to promote, directly or indirectly, the Election of the candidate or oppose, directly or indirectly, the Election of another candidate in the same election; (b) The amount of time used to promote, directly or indirectly, the Election of the candidate or oppose, directly or indirectly, the Election of another candidate in the same election.
[am. b.c. reg. 280/2021, s. 4.] Part 7 — penalties for failure to comply with disclosure requirements And expense limits When candidate penalties for failure to disclose apply — other Circumstances
71 For the purposes of section 64 (5) [penalties for failure to disclose] Of the act, a candidate becomes subject to the penalties under that Section as follows:
(a) If an application for relief under section 66 [application for relief in relation to disclosure requirements] Of the act is heard and dismissed before the penalties under section 64 of the act would otherwise apply under subsection (5) of that Section, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The day on which the application is dismissed; (b) If the petition for an application for relief under section 66 of the Act has not been served as required, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The date by which the petition is required to be served; (c) If an application for relief under section 66 of the act has not been Set down for hearing as required, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The date by which the application is required to be set down for Hearing.
When candidate penalties for exceeding expense limits or amount Available apply — other circumstances 72 For the purposes of section 68.01 (7) [penalties for exceeding expense limits or amount available] Of the act, a candidate becomes subject to the penalties under that Section as follows:
(a) If an application for relief under section 68.04 [application for relief in relation to exceeding expense limits or Amount available] Of the act is heard and dismissed before the penalty under section 68.01 (3) of the act would otherwise apply under section 68.01 (7) of The act, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The day on which the application is dismissed; (b) If the petition for an application for relief under section 68.04 of The act has not been served as required, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The date by which the petition is required to be served; (c) If an application for relief under section 68.04 of the act has not Been set down for hearing as required, on the later of (i) The day after the compliance deadline, and (ii) The date by which the application is required to be set down for Hearing.
Part 8 — appeals and final determinations Determination of who ceases to hold office 73 For the purposes of section 72 (4) [appeals and final determinations] Of the act, the individuals who received the lowest numbers of votes In the by-election cease to hold office.
Part 9 — forms Prescribed forms 74 The following forms set out in the schedule are prescribed:
(a) Amendment of a campaign financing arrangement; (b) Campaign financing arrangement; (c) Notification of termination of a campaign financing arrangement.
Schedule
[am. b.c. reg. 36/2017, s. 11.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local elections campaign financing act , s.b.c. 2014, c. 18, ss. 100, 100.01, 100.1 and 100.2.]