B.c. reg. 416/2008 M309/2008
Deposited december 12, 2008 Effective june 1, 2009 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Health professions act Medical practitioners regulation [last amended august 31, 2020 by b.c. reg. 168/2020] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "drug" Means a drug specified in schedule i, ia, ii or iv of the drug Schedules regulation, b.c. reg. 9/98; "medical assistance in dying" Means the following:
(a) The administration of a substance (i) By a medical practitioner to a person who requests the substance, and (ii) That is intended to cause the death of the person who requested the Substance;
(b) The prescription or provision of a substance (i) By a medical practitioner to a person who requests the substance, and (ii) That the person who requested the substance may administer to himself Or herself for the purpose of causing his or her own death; "medicine" Means the health profession in which a person provides the services of (a) Assessment and management of the physical or mental condition of an Individual or group of individuals at any stage of the biological life Cycle, including the prenatal and postmortem periods, (b) Prevention and treatment of physical and mental diseases, disorders And conditions, (c) Promotion of good health, and (d) Medical assistance in dying; "osteopathic physician" Means a registrant who is authorized under the bylaws to practise Medicine as an osteopathic physician; "registrant" Means a registrant who is authorized under the bylaws to practise Medicine;
"sell" Has the same meaning as in the Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act .
[am. b.c. regs. 129/2016, s. 1; 168/2020, sch. 1, s. 1.] College name 1.1 The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of The act in respect of medicine is "college of physicians and surgeons Of british columbia".
[en. b.c. reg. 168/2020, sch. 1, s. 2.] Reserved titles 2 (1) The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:
(a) Medical practitioner; (b) Physician;
(c) Surgeon;
(d) Doctor.
(2) The titles "osteopath" and "osteopathic physician" are reserved for Exclusive use by osteopathic physicians.
(3) This section does not prevent a person from using (a) The title "physician", "surgeon" or "doctor" in a manner authorized by Another enactment that regulates a health profession, or (b) An academic or educational designation that the person is entitled to Use.
Scope of practice 3 A registrant may practise medicine.
Restricted activities 4 (1) A registrant in the course of practising medicine may perform any Restricted activity.
(2) Only a registrant may provide a service of medicine as set out in this Regulation if, on the day before this section comes into force, the Provision of the same service by anyone other than a person authorized Under the Medical practitioners act Was prohibited.
Limits or conditions on services and restricted activities 5 (1) A registrant may sell a drug only if (a) Standards, limits or conditions have been established, under section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the act, respecting the selling of drugs by Registrants, and (b) The registrant has received written permission from the board to sell Drugs in accordance with the standards, limits or conditions described In paragraph (a).
(2) A registrant may provide the service of medical assistance in dying Only in accordance with the standards, limits and conditions Established by the board for the provision of the service of medical Assistance in dying.
[am. b.c. reg. 129/2016, s. 2.] Restricted and provisional registrant classes 6 The college is authorized to establish, under section 19 (1) (i) of The act, the following classes of registrants:
(a) A class of restricted registrants, for the purposes of section 20 (4.2) of the act; (b) A class of provisional registrants, for the purposes of section 20 (4.3) of the act.
Patient relations program 7 The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of The act.
Health profession corporations 8 Part 4 of the act applies to medicine.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]