B.c. reg. 101/2012 O.c. 290/2012 Deposited may 9, 2012 Effective july 23, 2012 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Metal dealers and recyclers act Metal dealers and recyclers regulation [last amended march 14, 2022 by b.c. reg. 61/2022] Definitions
1 (1) In this regulation, "act" Means the Metal dealers and recyclers act .
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (c) the definition of "local authority" In section 1 of the act, the following are prescribed:
(a) A board of education as defined in the School act ; (b) A francophone education authority as defined in the School act ; (c) An authority as defined in the Independent school act .
(3) The following items or classes of items are prescribed for the Purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "regulated metal" in Section 1 of the act:
(a) Metal traffic control lights, signals and signs; (b) Street lighting poles, wiring and fixtures; (c) Sewer grates and manhole covers; (d) Metal guardrails and handrails; (e) Metal grave markers, funeral vases, memorial plaques and monuments; (f) New scrap metal from a construction site or a manufacturing process; (g) A catalytic converter that is not attached to an exhaust system.
[am. b.c. reg. 61/2022.] Part 1 — transaction information Identification
2 The following forms of identification are prescribed for the purposes Of section 2 (a) of the act:
(a) A valid driver's licence issued under the Motor vehicle act That displays a photograph of the holder; (b) A valid driver's licence issued by another jurisdiction in canada or The united states of america that displays a photograph of the holder; (c) A valid bc identification card issued under the identification card Regulation that displays a photograph of the holder.
[am. b.c. reg. 4/2013, app. 5, s. 1.] Description of identification 3 The following information is prescribed for the purposes of section 5 (2) (b) of the act:
(a) The type of identification; (b) The name of the jurisdiction that issued the identification; (c) The full name of the person as it appears on the identification; (d) In the case of a driver's licence, the driver's licence number or the Identifying series of numbers, letters or characters that appear on The licence, as applicable; (e) In the case of a british columbia identification card, the Identification card number.
Customer code 4 For the purposes of section 5 (1) (a) of the act and the definition of "customer code" in section 1 of the act, the customer code for a Transaction is determined by combining, in the following order, the Following information as it appears on the identification presented in Accordance with section 2 (a) of the act:
(a) The first 3 letters of the surname of the person as recorded under Section 5 (2) (b) of the act; (b) The last 3 numbers, letters or characters, as applicable, of the Driver's licence or identification card as recorded under section 5 (2) (b) of the act.
Transaction information — prescribed information 5 (1) The following information is prescribed for the purposes of section 5 (1) (b) (vi) of the act:
(a) The name, business location and registration number of the metal Dealer or recycler purchasing the regulated metal; (b) Any classification codes that apply to the regulated metal under the Following sections of "scrap specifications circular 2011", copyright 2011, institute of scrap recycling industries, inc., 1615 l st. n.w., Suite 600, washington, dc, u.s.a. 20036-5664:
(i) Nonferrous scrap: nf-2011, pages 4 to 13; (ii) Ferrous scrap: fs-2011, pages 15 to 20.
(2) For the purposes of section 5 (2) (f) of the act, if a metal dealer or Recycler purchases metallic wire or regulated metal of the type Referred to in section 3 (3) of the act, a description of the proof of Ownership provided by the person selling the metallic wire or Regulated metal is prescribed information.
Transaction information — recording and maintenance 6 (1) A metal dealer or recycler must record transaction information in form A.
(2) A metal dealer or recycler may record transaction information in print Or in electronic form.
(3) If a metal dealer or recycler is temporarily unable to record Transaction information in electronic form, the metal dealer or Recycler must record any transaction information in print.
(4) A metal dealer or recycler must (a) Print a hard copy of any transaction information recorded in Electronic form before the end of the day on which the transaction Occurs, and (b) Keep the hard copy on the metal dealer or recycler's business premises For at least one year from the date of the transaction.
Reporting to local police authority 7 (1) For the purposes of section 6 of the act, a metal dealer or recycler Must provide the information to the local police authority (a) In the form of form b completed in print or in electronic form, (b) Before the end of the day on which the transaction occurs, and (c) By any of the following delivery methods as specified by the local Police authority:
(i) By facsimile to a number provided by the local police authority; (ii) By electronic mail to an address provided by the local police Authority;
(iii) Via the internet to a website maintained by or on behalf of the local Police authority for the purposes of this section.
(2) Despite subsection (1) (b) and (c), if, as a result of a technical Problem with a delivery method referred to in subsection (1) (c), a Metal dealer or recycler is unable to deliver the information to the Local police authority before the end of the day on which the Transaction occurs, the metal dealer or recycler must deliver the Information to the local police authority (a) Before 12 p.m. (noon) on the next day, irrespective of whether (i) That day is a holiday, or (ii) The metal dealer or recycler is open for business on that day, and (b) By a delivery method referred to in subsection (1) (c), or personally Or by courier.
(3) If, at any time after information is provided to a local police Authority under this section, the metal dealer or recycler amends, Alters or corrects the information, the metal dealer or recycler must Immediately notify the local police authority of the amendment, Alteration or correction.
(4) A metal dealer or recycler must (a) Print a hard copy of any form b that is completed in electronic form, And
(b) Keep a copy of the form b that is provided to a local police Authority, including a hard copy referred to in paragraph (a), on the Metal dealer or recycler's business premises for at least one year From the date of the transaction.
Part 2 — registration Applying for registration 8 A person who applies for registration under the act must provide the Registrar with all of the following information or records:
(a) The applicant's name, address, telephone number and email address, if Any;
(b) The business name under which the applicant is carrying on or will Carry on business; (c) If the applicant holds a valid business licence issued by a Municipality, including the city of vancouver, or a regional district, A copy of the licence; (d) For each location that the applicant is carrying on or will carry on Business, the business address and the name of the person responsible For the day-to-day management of the business at that location.
Maximum period 9 The prescribed period for the purposes of section 10 (1) of the act is 3 years.
Terms and conditions of registration 10 The following terms and conditions are prescribed for the purposes of Section 11 (c) of the act:
(a) A registrant must display a copy of the registrant's registration in a Conspicuous place at each business location; (b) A registrant must not carry on business as a metal dealer or recycler Under a business name that is different from the business name Specified in the registrant's registration; (c) Unless a registration is renewed by the registrar under section 10 (1) Of the act, the registration terminates upon expiry of the period of Time specified by the registrar in the registration; (d) If a registration expires, or is suspended or cancelled under the act, The registrant must surrender the registration, and any copies in the Registrant's possession, to the registrar.
[am. b.c. reg. 39/2020.] Part 3 — general Cash transactions 11 A metal dealer or recycler must not pay cash for regulated metal if The total value of the regulated metal is more than $50.
Exemption — mobile metal dealer or recycler 12 (1) In this section, "mobile metal dealer or recycler" Means a metal dealer or recycler who (a) Carries on a mobile business for the purchase, collection and Transport of regulated metal, (b) Purchases or collects regulated metal only (i) At a location other than its fixed business location, and (ii) For the purpose of transporting and selling the regulated metal to a Metal dealer or recycler who is required to be registered under the Act, and (c) Does not store any of the regulated metal that is purchased or Collected.
(2) Section 2 of the act does not apply to a person who sells regulated Metal to a mobile metal dealer or recycler.
(3) Sections 3 (1) and (2), 5, 6 and 7 of the act do not apply to the Purchase of regulated metal by a mobile metal dealer or recycler.
(4) Section 8 of the act does not apply to a mobile metal dealer or Recycler.
Exemption — commercial transactions 13 (1) In this section:
"commercial entity" Means a business entity, other than a mobile metal dealer or recycler Within the meaning of section 12 of this regulation, that is Registered under part ix [goods and services tax] Of the Excise tax act (canada); "commercial transaction" Means a purchase of regulated metal by a metal dealer or recycler that Is paid for by cheque drawn from an account in the name of the metal Dealer or recycler at a financial institution.
(2) If a metal dealer or recycler (a) Establishes an account for the purpose of purchasing regulated metal From a commercial entity on an ongoing basis, (b) Creates and maintains a record of all of the following information:
(i) The full name and business address of the commercial entity; (ii) The registration number assigned to the commercial entity under part Ix
[goods and services tax] Of the Excise tax act (canada); (iii) The full name and phone number of a representative of the commercial Entity;
(iv) In respect of each commercial transaction with the commercial entity, The date and total value of the transaction and a description of the Predominant type of regulated metal purchased, and (c) Keeps the information on its business premises for at least one year From the date of the transaction, Sections 2, 3 (1) and (2), 5, 6 and 7 of the act do not apply to a Commercial transaction between the metal dealer or recycler and that Commercial entity.
(3) A metal dealer or recycler must keep a current list, including the Information referred to in subsection (2) (b) (i) and (iii), of the Commercial entities with whom it has established an account of the Type referred to in subsection (2) (a).
Administrative penalties 14 (1) The following provisions are prescribed for the purposes of section 17 (1) (a) of the act:
(a) Sections 2 (a) and (b), 3 (1), (2) (a), (b) and (c) and (3) (a) and (b), 4, 5 (1) (a) and (b) and (2), 6, 7 (a) and (b), 8, 25 (2) (a), (b) and (c) and (4) of the act; (b) Sections 7 (3), 11 and 13 (3) of this regulation.
(2) The following provisions are prescribed for the purposes of section 17 (5) of the act:
(a) Sections 3 (1), (2) (a), (b) and (c) and (3) (a) and (b), 4, 5 (1) (a) And (b) and (2), 25 (2) (a), (b) and (c) and (4) of the act; (b) Sections 7 (3) and 11 of this regulation.
Offences
15 (1) A person who contravenes section 7 (3), 11 or 13 (3) of this Regulation commits an offence.
(2) If a business entity commits an offence under subsection (1) in Respect of section 7 (3) or 11 of this regulation, an Employee, officer, director or agent of the business entity who Authorized, permitted or acquiesced in the commission of the offence Also commits an offence, whether or not the business entity is Prosecuted for the offence.
(3) An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable on Conviction to the penalties set out in section 26 (1) of the act.
(4) A business entity that commits an offence under this section is liable On conviction to the penalty set out in section 26 (2) of the act.
Form a Form b [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Metal dealers and recyclers act , s.b.c. 2011, c. 22, s. 31.]