B.C. Reg. 405/89
O.C. 1825/89
Deposited December 18, 1989
effective January 1, 1990
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Mineral Tax Act
Mineral Tax Costs and
Expenditures Regulation
[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]
Interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Mineral Tax Act
;
"affiliated corporations"
means corporations that are associated or deemed to be associated
pursuant to section 256 of the
Income Tax Act
(Canada);
"cost"
means any amount paid or payable and includes any amount reasonably
accrued with respect to employee remuneration or benefits;
"discovery costs"
means costs incurred, including the cost of capital assets acquired,
for the purpose of determining the existence, location, extent or
quality of a mineral deposit in the Province;
"exploration costs"
means discovery costs incurred after December 31, 1989 by an
operator of a mine in a fiscal year of the mine during which the mine
was producing minerals in reasonable commercial quantities;
"hedging transaction"
means a transaction conducted through a recognized commodity exchange,
bank or other financial institution, that involves a promise to buy or
sell a given quantity of a commodity or currency for later delivery in
a fixed delivery period or delivery month at a price that is fixed on
the day that the transaction takes place;
"significant shareholder"
means a shareholder who owns 10% or more of any class of shares of a
corporation.
(2)
For the purposes of the definition of "significant shareholder", an
individual is deemed to own any shares owned by the individual's
spouse.
[am. B.C. Regs. 353/90, Sch. A, s. 1; 360/94, s. 1.]
Expenditures
2
(1)
For the purposes of section 9 (1) (b) of the Act, the prescribed costs
and expenses, to the extent reasonable, incurred for the purposes of
earning gross revenue from the operation of a particular mine are the
aggregate of
(a)
preproduction discovery costs as provided in subsection (3),
(b)
exploration costs allocated to the particular mine in the manner
provided for in section 4,
(c)
the cost of capital assets which, for greater certainty, include
amounts paid or payable pursuant to the terms of a lease or rental of
capital assets,
(i)
acquired for the purpose of the production of minerals from a mine or
for the distribution of the mineral product from that mine, and
(ii)
used directly in the administration of that particular mine to the
extent they are so used,
(d)
the costs incurred before the mine came into commercial production for
the purpose of bringing it into commercial production, including
clearing, removing overburden, stripping, sinking a mine shaft and
constructing an adit or other underground entry,
(e)
costs for sinking a mine shaft, constructing an adit or other
underground entry, removing overburden, stripping, clearing or other
similar activities if those costs are incurred
(i)
after the mine came into commercial production, and
(ii)
for the purpose of maintaining the mine in commercial production,
(f)
the current costs incurred in the operation of the mine including, for
greater certainty, those administrative or corporate costs, including
management fees, that are directly related to the operation of a
particular mine,
(g)
the current costs incurred for the operation of processing facilities
used to process minerals extracted or obtained from the mine,
(h)
the current costs of distribution of the mineral product of the mine
including marketing expenses and related sales commissions,
(i)
the transaction value of mineral products consumed or used at the
mine,
(j)
any amounts paid as a repayment of any amounts included in section 9
(1) (g) and (h) of the Act in the current or any preceding fiscal year
of the mine,
(k)
the cost of surface rights and surface lease costs incurred for the
purpose of obtaining access to the mine,
(l)
the fees paid to a bank to provide a security bond acquired to satisfy
the security guarantee required under the
Mines Act
for reclamation,
(l.1)
costs of reclamation, including
(i)
required contributions made during the fiscal year of the mine to the
account maintained for the mine in the reclamation fund established
under the
Mines Act
, less any amount elected to be added to the reclamation cost account
under section 5 of the Mineral Tax Reclamation Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/98, and
(ii)
interest earned, during the fiscal year of the mine, in the account
maintained for the mine in the reclamation fund, and
(m)
research costs as provided in subsection (9),
but, for greater certainty, does not include any amount paid, payable
or incurred as
(n)
consideration to any person other than the Crown in right of the
Province for the right to win minerals from a mine, including the cost
of a royalty or similar payment, whether or not dependent on
(i)
the amount or value of the mineral products produced from the
operation of the mine, or
(ii)
the profits or cash flow derived from the operation of the mine,
(o)
consideration for services to be rendered or goods to be delivered
after the end of the fiscal year of the mine,
(p)
interest,
(q)
the costs of or associated with financing, including the costs of
arranging financing,
(r)
dividends,
(s)
costs of incorporation, organization or reorganization,
(t)
costs or losses in respect of hedging transactions,
(u)
taxes payable under the Act, the
Income Tax Act
or the
Income Tax Act
(Canada),
(v)
salaries, wages, fees or benefits to the extent that
(i)
they may reasonably be regarded as directly or indirectly related to
services provided by an individual who is a significant shareholder of
the corporation or an affiliated corporation, and
(ii)
the amount directly or indirectly attributable, in any fiscal year of
the mine, to the services of an individual referred to in subparagraph
(i) exceeds the proportion of $75 000 that the number of days in the
fiscal year of the mine bears to 365,
(w)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 7/98, s. 1 (e).]
(x)
any costs or expenses incurred with respect to the mineral product
after the point at which the transaction value is determined, or
(y)
any amount as a reserve, contingency, allowance or bad debts expense.
(2)
Where a cost or expense in respect of a mine is incurred by a person
under an agreement entered into with an operator whereby the sole
consideration for incurring the cost or expense is for shares of the
capital stock of the operator or an interest in a partnership, or for
an interest in or right to the shares or partnership interest, the
cost or expense may be claimed as a cost for that mine under section 9
(1) (b) of the Act.
(3)
Preproduction discovery costs of a particular mine means the aggregate
of
(a)
all discovery costs with respect to the mine property on which the
mine is sited that
(i)
were incurred by the operator after the coming into force of the Act
and before commencement of commercial production of the mine,
(ii)
have not been included as preproduction discovery costs or exploration
costs of another mine, and
(iii)
were incurred while the operator had a right to win minerals from the
particular mine property, and
(b)
where a mine property, or an interest in it, has been acquired by an
operator and the property has not been in commercial production at any
time during the current fiscal year of the mine or the 84 months
immediately preceding the date of acquisition, the proportion of the
preproduction discovery costs of the previous operator that is the
proportion of the acquired interest in the mine property, to the
extent that those costs were incurred with respect to the particular
mine property or were related to the mine for the purposes of section
11 (1) of the Act and were included by the previous operator as
capital costs under section 9 (1) (b) of the Act by virtue of the
application of section 11 (1) of the Act and have not been used to
reduce total revenues of any previous operator for the purposes of
determining net revenue under section 6 of the Act and would have been
available for deduction by the previous operator.
(4)
For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), discovery costs will be
considered to have been incurred with respect to a particular mine
property by an operator, at such time as the operator had a right to
win minerals from the particular mine property, if
(a)
the results from having incurred the discovery costs provided the
operator with a reasonable basis to believe that a producing mine
might be established at the particular mine property, and
(b)
the acquisition of the right to win minerals from the particular mine
property was a direct consequence of the results obtained from having
incurred the discovery costs.
(5)
For the purposes of subsection (3) (b), the extent to which the
preproduction discovery costs would have been available for claim to
the previous operator shall be determined on the basis that any
reduction of the cumulative expenditure account during any fiscal year
of the mine shall be deemed to be firstly a claim of preproduction
discovery costs.
(6)
The preproduction discovery costs of a previous operator shall be
reduced by the amount that is included in the preproduction discovery
costs of the purchasing operator, under subsection (3) (b), on the day
that is the day after the sale of the mine, and the reduction shall be
deemed to be proceeds on sale of assets, under section 9 (1) (g) (iii)
of the Act, of the previous operator for the fiscal year of the mine.
(7)
For the purposes of subsection (3), where 2 or more corporations are
amalgamated, the amalgamated corporation shall be deemed to be a
different and distinct corporation from each of the predecessor
corporations and mineral properties of the predecessor corporations
shall be deemed to have been acquired by the amalgamated corporation.
(8)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 360/94, s. 2 (b).]
(9)
Research costs that are incurred by a person on scientific research
and experimental development undertaken during fiscal years of the
mine that the person is an operator of a mine in commercial production
and that are related to the mineral activities of that person may be
included provided that the results of the research or development are
public property.
[am. B.C. Regs. 353/90, Sch. A, s. 2; 360/94, s. 2; 171/96, s. 1;
7/98, s. 1; 105/2000; 210/2014; 64/2021, s. 5.]
Costs on account of capital
3
For the purposes of section 7 of the Act the following costs and
expenditures must be included in costs that are prescribed to be on
account of capital and may not be included in the current costs and
expenditures:
(a)
exploration costs;
(b)
research costs;
(c)
preproduction discovery costs;
(d)
the costs described in section 2 (1) (d);
(e)
amounts, other than the costs referred to in section 2 (1) (e), paid
or payable to acquire capital assets or for the use of or the right to
use capital assets;
(f)
the cost of inventories of parts, supplies and products.
[en. B.C. Reg. 353/90, Sch. A, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 171/96, s. 2;
7/98, s. 2.]
Allocation of exploration costs
4
(1)
In this section:
"accounting year"
, in relation to an operator of a mine to which exploration costs are
allocated, means the latest fiscal year of the operator to end on or
before the end of the allocation year of that mine;
"allocation year"
, in relation to a mine, means the fiscal year of the mine for which
exploration costs are allocated under this section.
(2)
Subject to subsection (3), exploration costs may be allocated to a
mine by an operator of the mine for any fiscal year of the mine to the
extent that those amounts have not been allocated
(a)
to the mine for a preceding fiscal year of the mine, or
(b)
to another mine.
(3)
The amount of exploration costs that may be allocated to a mine under
subsection (2) shall not exceed the aggregate of
(a)
the amount of the operator's exploration account under section 10
of the Act at the end of the operator's accounting year, and
(b)
the amount by which the exploration costs incurred by the operator in
the period beginning after the end of the operator's accounting year
and ending on or before the end of the allocation year of the mine
exceeds the aggregate of the following amounts:
(i)
grants, subsidies and other forms of assistance that the operator
received, became entitled to receive or could reasonably be expected
to receive that may reasonably be regarded as being with respect to
exploration costs allocated under this subsection or that have been
added to the exploration account of the operator under section 10 (1)
(b) of the Act;
(ii)
actual or deemed proceeds on dispositions of assets, the costs of
which assets have been allocated under this subsection or added to the
exploration account of the operator under section 10 (1) (b) of the
Act.
(4)
Where exploration costs are to be allocated to a mine under subsection
(2), the operator shall irrevocably elect to make the allocation to a
particular mine by completing and delivering to the commissioner, on
or before the last day of the 6th month following the end of the
allocation year of the mine to which the allocation is made, an
election in the form set out in the Schedule.
(5)
Despite subsection (4), on an application by an operator, the
commissioner may, whether or not the period within which the operator
was entitled to make an election under subsection (4) has expired,
(a)
permit the operator to amend or revoke an election made within that
period, or
(b)
extend the period within which an election under that subsection may
be made.
[en. B.C. Reg. 360/94, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 171/96, s. 3; 7/98, s. 3.]
New mine allowance
5
(1)
For the purposes of section 9 (1) (c) of the Act, the allowance for
new mines referred to in that section shall be 1/3 of the costs and
expenses described in section 2 (1) (c) (i) and (d) that
(a)
were incurred by the operator for the purpose of earning gross revenue
from the operation of a mine that meets one of the following criteria:
(i)
the mine is located on a property from which minerals had not
previously been produced in reasonable commercial quantities and began
producing minerals in reasonable commercial quantities after
December 31, 1994 and before January 1, 2026;
(ii)
the mine was, before January 1, 1995 a closed or abandoned mine within
the meaning of the
Mines Act
and began producing minerals in reasonable commercial quantities after
December 31, 1994 and before January 1, 2026;
(iii)
the mine had ceased operations and had laid off substantially all of
its operating work force before January 1, 1995 and began producing
minerals in reasonable commercial quantities after
December 31, 1994 and before January 1, 2026;
(iv)
the mine was expanded after December 31, 1994 and before
January 1, 2026 to the extent that the greatest designed
capacity, measured in tonnes of input of ore, of the mill that
processed the ore from the mine was not less than 25% greater in the
fiscal year of the mine immediately following the expansion than it
was in the fiscal year of the mine immediately preceding the
expansion,
(b)
were incurred by the operator
(i)
after December 31, 1994,
(ii)
before the mine began producing minerals in reasonable commercial
quantities or before the completion of the expansion of the mine
referred to in paragraph (a) (iv), as the case may be, and
(iii)
in the case of a mine that was the subject of an expansion described
in paragraph (a) (iv), in the course of and principally for the
purposes of the expansion,
(c)
in the case of a mine that had ceased operations as described in
paragraph (a) (iii), were not incurred to acquire assets that were
previously used in the operation of the mine or to compensate a
previous operator for development expenditures, and
(d)
in the case of costs and expenses described in section 2 (1) (c) (i),
were incurred by the operator to acquire assets other than assets
that, before being acquired by the operator, were used for any purpose
whatsoever by a person with whom the operator was not dealing at arm's
length.
[en. B.C. Reg. 360/94, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 7/98, s. 4; 177/98;
30/2007; 85/2015; 101/2019; 89/2020.]
Schedule
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/2015, App. 1.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Mineral Tax Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 291, s. 44 (2).]
