B.c. reg. 171/2013 M108/2013
Deposited april 12, 2013 Effective may 30, 2013 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Athletic commissioner act Minister's athletic commissioner regulation [last amended october 31, 2022 by b.c. reg. 214/2022] Part 1 — interpretation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Athletic commissioner act ; "agreed weight" Means the weight at which a contestant agrees, by contract with a Promoter, to compete at an event; "banned substance" Means, subject to section 21 (2) [drug and alcohol testing] , a substance or method listed by the world anti-doping agency as a Prohibited substance or method; "contestant" Means a professional athlete who holds a valid contestant licence, or A valid expedited contestant licence, issued under section 11 (1) [actions by commissioner respecting licences] Of the act and includes, other than in sections 12, 16 (m) and (n), 19.1, 20, 21, 30, 31 and 32 of this regulation, a person who is an Applicant for a contestant licence or an expedited contestant licence; "emergency medical service provider" Means one of the following individuals:
(a) A medical practitioner who, in respect of an event, is not a ringside Physician referred to in section 26 (1) (c); (b) A person who is authorized under the Health professions act To practise the designated health profession of nursing; (c) A person who is authorized under the Health professions act To practise the designated health profession of practical nursing; (d) An emergency medical assistant, as defined in the Emergency health services act , if the emergency medical assistant is qualified in a licence Category that the commissioner considers appropriate; (e) A person who possesses qualifications that the commissioner considers Appropriate for the purposes of section 16 (1) (i.1), provided that The commissioner confirms the appropriateness of the qualifications Before the event is scheduled to begin; "event" Means a professional contest or exhibition; "fight record" Means a written list of the accumulation of wins, losses and draws a Contestant acquires throughout the contestant's career as a Professional or amateur athlete; "home jurisdiction" In respect of a contestant, means the province, in the case of a Canadian resident, state, in the case of an american resident, or Country, in any other case, in which the contestant regularly trains; "judge" Means a judge, as defined in the athletic commissioner regulation, who Holds a valid judge licence issued under section 11 (1) of the act; "kickboxing" Means a type of mixed martial arts that predominately involves kicking And striking; "knockdown timekeeper" Means a timekeeper who times knockouts in a boxing match; "match" Means a contest in an event; "matchmaker" Means a matchmaker, as defined in the act, who holds a valid Matchmaker licence issued under section 11 (1) of the act; "mixed martial arts" And
"mma" Have the same meaning as "mixed martial arts" in the athletic Commissioner regulation; "post-match medical suspension" Means a period (a) That is ordered at the end of a match, in writing, by the Commissioner, or another regulatory authority, and (b) During which the contestant is prohibited from competing in events and May be prohibited from engaging in specified training activities; "promoter" Means a promoter, as defined in the athletic commissioner regulation, Who holds a valid promoter licence issued under section 11 (1) of the Act;
"referee" Means a referee, as defined in the athletic commissioner regulation, Who holds a valid referee licence issued under section 11 (1) of the Act;
"regulatory authority" , in respect of a jurisdiction outside british columbia, means the Person or entity that performs functions for the jurisdiction similar To the commissioner's functions; "ring" Includes a cage in relation to a sport for which a cage is authorized Under the rules that apply to the sport; "ringside physician" Means an official who is a medical practitioner; "scorekeeper" Means a scorekeeper, as defined in the athletic commissioner Regulation, who holds a valid scorekeeper licence issued under section 11 (1) of the act; "second" Means a second, as defined in the act, who holds a valid second's Licence issued under section 11 (1) of the act; "timekeeper" Means a timekeeper, as defined in the athletic commissioner Regulation, who holds a valid timekeeper licence issued under section 11 (1) of the act; "weigh-in ceremony" Means the weighing of contestants in accordance with section 28 [weigh-in ceremony] .
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 1; 60/2020, s. 1; 113/2022, s. 1; 214/2022, s. 1.] Officials prescribed 2 The following are prescribed for the purposes of paragraph (b) of the Definition of "official" in section 1 of the act:
(a) Scorekeeper;
(b) Ringside physician; (c) Dressing room supervisor.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 2.] Other licence requirements 3 Scorekeeping is prescribed for the purposes of section 9 (d) [licence required] Of the act.
Part 2 — licences and event permits Division 1 — applications for licences General requirements — licence applications 4 (1) An applicant for a licence must provide all the following in respect Of the applicant:
(a) In the case of an individual, (i) Full legal name and any aliases or stage names the applicant uses or Has used, (ii) Complete residential and mailing address, and an email address if one Is available, (iii) Telephone number at which the applicant can be reached during the day, (iv) Date of birth, (v) Country of citizenship, (vi) Sex, and (vii) 2 colour photographs that are 50 mm wide by 70 mm high and have Been taken within the 6-month period immediately preceding the date of Application;
(b) In the case of a corporation, (i) Full legal name and any operating name the applicant uses or has used, (ii) If the applicant was incorporated in british columbia, a copy of the Corporation's certificate of incorporation issued under the Business corporations act Or a predecessor act, (iii) If the applicant was incorporated outside of british columbia, a copy Of the corporation's certificate of registration issued under the Business corporations act Or a predecessor act, (iv) Complete business and mailing address, (v) Jurisdiction in which the applicant is incorporated, evidence Satisfactory to the commissioner of the incorporation and the address Of the head office of the corporation, and (vi) Name, phone number and email address, if an email address is Available, of the officer or director of the applicant who is Authorized by the applicant to apply for the licence; (c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 3 (a) (iv).] (d) In all cases, a list of the jurisdictions in which the applicant holds Or has held a licence or other authorization of the same category as The licence to which the application relates, the licence or Authorization number, if any, and the expiry date of each licence or Authorization.
(2) An applicant must provide to the commissioner the authorizations the Commissioner considers necessary for the commissioner to (a) Verify the information provided in the application, and (b) Perform other background checks on the applicant or its officers or Directors, which may include, but are not limited to, criminal record Checks, police record checks and credit checks, the commissioner Considers necessary in order to determine whether the applicant is Eligible for the licence or to make a decision under section 11 (1) [actions by commissioner respecting licence] Or 15 (1)
[actions by commissioner respecting event permits] Of the act.
(3) The fees and other payments referred to in section 10 (c) [application for licence] Of the act must be paid by certified cheque, money Order, electronic funds transfer or in a form acceptable to the Commissioner.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 3.] Contestant licence applications 5 An applicant for a contestant licence or an expedited contestant Licence must provide all the following in respect of the applicant:
(a) The applicant's fight record; (b) Certifications achieved in boxing or a martial art, as applicable; (c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 4 (a).] (d) The certification, in the english language, of a physician lawfully Entitled to practise medicine in the place where the physical Examination is performed who has performed a physical examination on The applicant within the 12-month period immediately preceding the Date of application, that the physician (i) Has examined the applicant on the date or dates set out in the Certificate, and (ii) Is of the opinion that the applicant is fit to compete in a Professional contest or exhibition; (e) Height, weight, hair colour and eye colour; (f) Home jurisdiction, the name and address of the facility at which the Applicant regularly trains and the name of the applicant's trainer; (g) If the applicant has been disciplined by another regulatory authority In relation to an authorization issued by the regulatory authority for Boxing, mma or a martial art, the circumstances giving rise to the Discipline and the sanction imposed; (h) Name, address and phone number of a person who can be contacted in the Event of an emergency.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 4.] Expedited licence 6 If a person applies less than 14 days before the date scheduled for an Event for a licence in order to participate as a contestant in the Event, the commissioner may issue to the person only an expedited Contestant licence.
[en. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 5.] Matchmaker licence applications 7 An applicant for a matchmaker licence must provide all the following:
(a) If the applicant has ever been investigated for wrongdoing in respect Of a matchmaker licence or authorization from any jurisdiction, Details of the investigation, results and consequences; (b) The applicant's experience as a matchmaker in the 5-year period Immediately preceding the date of application, including locations and Dates of the events or matches for which the applicant made the Matches;
(c) The following declarations:
(i) Of any financial interest the applicant has in a professional athlete Or in a business entity or individual involved in the sport to which The application relates; (ii) Of any relationship, whether by blood, adoption or marriage, the Applicant has with a professional athlete or official, including name And relationship.
Official licence applications 8 An applicant for a licence to act as an official must provide all the Following:
(a) The class of official licence the applicant is requesting; (b) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 6 (a).] (c) Evidence satisfactory to the commissioner that the applicant is Qualified to act as the applicable official, which evidence may Include, but is not limited to, completion of applicable training; (d) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 6 (a).] (e) If the application is for a referee licence, the certification, in the English language, of a physician lawfully entitled to practise Medicine in the place where the physical examination is performed who Has performed a physical examination on the applicant within the 12-month period immediately preceding the date of application, that The physician (i) Has examined the applicant on the date or dates set out in the Certificate, and (ii) Is of the opinion that the applicant is fit to carry out the Applicant's duties as a referee.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 6; 113/2022, s. 2.] Promoter licence applications 9 (1) An applicant for a promoter licence must provide all the following, as Applicable:
(a) If the applicant is a corporation that is required to file annual Reports under the Business corporations act , a copy of the most recent annual report filed under that act; (b) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 7 (a).] (c) Whether the applicant, or an officer or director of the applicant, in The case of a corporation, has ever been investigated for wrongdoing In respect of a promoter licence or authorization from any Jurisdiction, details of the investigation, results and consequences; (d) The applicant's experience as a promoter, including locations and Dates of events promoted by the applicant; (e) The following declarations:
(i) Of any financial interest the applicant has in a professional athlete Or in a business entity or individual involved in the sport to which The application relates; (ii) Of any relationship, whether by blood, adoption or marriage, the Applicant has with a professional athlete or official, including name And relationship.
(2) A person is not eligible for a promoter licence if (a) The person is an undischarged bankrupt or is an officer or director of An undischarged bankrupt corporation, or (b) The applicant is a corporation and an officer or director of the Corporation is an undischarged bankrupt.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 7.] Term of licence 10 A licence is valid for the period beginning on the date the licence is Issued and ending on the date specified in the licence unless earlier Suspended or cancelled under the act.
[en. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 8.] Division 2 — application for event permit Application for event permit 11 (1) The promoter of an event must apply to the commissioner for an event Permit at least 60 days before the proposed date of the event.
(2) An applicant for an event permit must provide the following Information in respect of the proposed event:
(a) Date;
(a.1) Name, address and contact information for the venue; (b) Type of sporting event; (c) Whether the event is being held for profit or on behalf of a Charitable organization; (d) The proposed program for the event, including number and sequence of Matches, intermission placement and duration and a description of the Proposed exhibitions or entertainment that will be presented between Matches;
(e) Anticipated attendance.
(3) An applicant must provide the following information:
(a) The applicant's promoter licence number; (b) Whether there have been any changes in the information provided in the Application for the promoter's promoter licence and, if so, the Details of those changes; (c) The following declarations:
(i) Of any financial interest the applicant has in a professional athlete Or in a business entity or individual involved in the sport to which The application relates; (ii) Of any relationship, whether by blood, adoption or marriage, the Applicant has with a professional athlete or official, including name And relationship; (d) If the event is being promoted on behalf of a charitable organization, The following information:
(i) The name of the charitable organization; (ii) The charitable organization's registered charity number; (iii) The primary business address and contact information for the Charitable organization; (iv) Authorizations the commissioner considers necessary to verify the Information provided under this paragraph; (e) Whether the promoter acts as matchmaker for the event, and, if not, The name of the matchmaker for the event.
(4) An applicant for an event permit must provide the authorizations the Commissioner considers necessary for the commissioner to (a) Verify the information provided in the application, and (b) Perform other background checks on the applicant or its officers or Directors, which may include, but are not limited to, criminal record Checks, police record checks and credit checks, the commissioner Considers necessary to determine whether the applicant is eligible for The event permit or to make a decision under section 15 (1) of the Act.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 9.] Division 3 — terms and conditions of licences Outstanding charges — licence holder 11.1 It is a term of every licence that the licence holder must promptly Report to the commissioner that the licence holder, or, if the licence Holder is a corporation, a director or officer of the corporation, has Been charged with an offence under (a) The act or another enactment, or (b) A law enacted by the government of canada, another province of canada Or a foreign jurisdiction.
[en. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 10.] Terms and conditions of contestant licence 12 The following, as applicable, are terms and conditions of every Contestant licence and expedited contestant licence:
(a) The contestant must not participate in an event unless the promoter Holds an event permit for the event; (b) The contestant must comply with the requirements set out in division 5 [medical requirements] ; (c) The contestant must appear at the time scheduled for, and participate In, the weigh-in ceremony; (d) The contestant must (i) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 11 (b).] (ii) Report to the contestant's dressing room at least one hour before the Match is scheduled to begin, and (iii) Remain in the contestant's dressing room until ordered to the ring by An official or the commissioner; (e) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 11 (b).] (f) The contestant must not use a banned substance; (g)-(h) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 11 (b).] (i) The contestant may not use more than 3 seconds in a match unless the Commissioner has approved; (j) The contestant must identify to the commissioner the contestant's Seconds for an event before competing in the event, and, if the Contestant has more than one second for a match, the contestant must Designate one second as the chief second for the match; (k) The commissioner may disqualify a contestant from an event if the Contestant's second fails to comply with section 32 [second duties] Or a term or condition of the second's licence.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 11; 113/2022, s. 1.] Terms and conditions of matchmaker licence 13 The matchmaker for an event must ensure that (a) The contestants for each match on the program for the event are Suitable on the basis of fight record and weight to compete with each Other, and (b) The contestants for each match on the program for the event are not Likely to be subject to a post-match medical suspension, or a licence Suspension in this or another jurisdiction, at the time of the event.
Terms and conditions of official licence 14 An official must not appear as an official for an event under the Influence of a substance that could impair the official's judgment in Performing the official's duties.
[am. b.c. reg. 113/2022, s. 3.] Terms and conditions of second's licence 15 A second who fails to comply with section 32 [second duties] Or a term or condition of the second's licence may be ejected from the Event by the commissioner.
Division 4 — terms and conditions of event permits Terms and conditions of event permits 16 (1) The following are terms and conditions of every event permit:
(a) At least 14 days before the date of an event, the promoter must Provide to the commissioner all the following information in respect Of the event:
(i) A list of the proposed matches, including for each the names of the Proposed contestants, whether the match is a boxing or mma event, and If it is an mma event whether it is a kickboxing event, and the weight Class of the contestants; (ii) The number of rounds proposed for each proposed match; (iii) The amount of the purse for each proposed match; (iv) For each proposed match, a declaration signed by a matchmaker that the Contestants proposed for the match are suitable competitors; (v) Changes that are not otherwise reported under this paragraph in the Proposed program provided under section 11 (2) (d); (vi) Other information requested by the commissioner; (b) If the information provided under paragraph (a) has changed, a Promoter must immediately notify the commissioner in writing and Provide to the commissioner as soon as practicable, but before the Event is scheduled to begin, (i) The new information, (ii) If the contestants for a match have changed, a declaration referred to In paragraph (a) (iv) in respect of the new contestants, and (iii) Any other information requested by the commissioner; (c) A promoter must not add contestants to the program for an event less Than 3 days before the date scheduled for the event without the Approval of the commissioner; (d) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 12 (b).] (e) A promoter must ensure that each contestant in an event is present at The weigh-in ceremony; (f) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 12 (b).] (g) If there is a change in the program for an event after the program has Been announced to the public, the promoter must as soon as practicable (i) Post notice of the change at each box office at the venue for the Event and on the promoter's website, if any, and (ii) Make other reasonable efforts to notify the public in a manner similar To the manner in which the program was announced to the public; (h) At or before the weigh-in ceremony for an event, the promoter must Provide to the commissioner a copy of each signed contract between the Promoter and a contestant and the contestant's fight record; (i) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 214/2022, s. 2.] (i.1) The promoter of an event must, at the promoter's expense, ensure that At least 2 emergency medical service providers equipped with basic Life support equipment are present and available at all times during The event; (j) The promoter of an event, at the promoter's expense, must arrange for And ensure the attendance of the security officers required under the Security plan, or amended security plan, as applicable, submitted to The commissioner under section 18 (1) [event security planning] ; (k) The promoter of an event, at the promoter's expense, must reserve 6 Front row seats at the event for the commissioner's use and deliver to The commissioner, at least 5 days before the date of the event, Tickets or passes authorizing admission to the reserved seats; (l) The promoter must provide to the commissioner within the 15-day period After the event (i) A statutory declaration or affidavit of the promoter, or in the case Of a corporation, of an officer or director of the corporation, Stating the gross gate receipts for the event, and (ii) The amount payable in respect of the event, by certified cheque, money Order, electronic funds transfer or in a form acceptable to the Commissioner, under section 5 [gate receipts] Of the athletic commissioner regulation; (m) The promoter must not pay amounts owing to a contestant for an event Unless the contestant has consented in writing to any post-match Medical suspension imposed after the event; (n) The promoter must pay all amounts owing to contestants for the event In the presence of the commissioner or a person designated by the Commissioner.
(2) A term or condition under subsection (1) is not met until any Information or document the term or condition requires to be provided Is satisfactory to the commissioner.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 12; 60/2020, s. 2; 214/2022, s. 2.] Promoter security requirements 17 (1) No earlier than 60 days and no later than 30 days before the scheduled Date of an event, the promoter must provide to the commissioner a Certificate of insurance evidencing the following:
(a) That the promoter carries at least $5 000 000 of general Liability insurance inclusive per occurrence covering all aspects of The event; (b) That such insurance expressly includes as additional insureds his Majesty in right of british columbia, the commissioner, deputy Commissioners, if applicable, referees, judges, timekeepers, Scorekeepers, ringside physicians and dressing room supervisors who Are officials designated by the commissioner for the event.
(2) Before issuing an event permit, the commissioner may require the Promoter to provide to the commissioner security in the form of a Certified cheque, draft, money order, irrevocable letter of credit or Performance bond, payable to the minister of finance, in an amount Determined by the commissioner, not exceeding $25 000.
(3) The commissioner may realize the security provided under subsection (2) if the amount payable under section 5 of the athletic commissioner Regulation is not paid within 7 days after the expiry of the period Specified in section 16 (l) of this regulation.
(4) No later than 7 days before the scheduled date of an event, the Promoter must provide to the commissioner, by certified cheque, money Order, electronic funds transfer or in a form acceptable to the Commissioner, an amount equal to the sum of the remuneration that is To be paid to the event officials under section 27 [payment of officials] .
(5) If the amount payable under subsection (4) increases, the promoter Must provide to the commissioner the amount of the increase, by Certified cheque, money order, electronic funds transfer or in a form Acceptable to the commissioner, before the event begins.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 13; 214/2022, s. 3.] Event security planning 18 (1) It is a term of every event permit that, no later than 30 days before The date scheduled for an event, the promoter must provide to the Commissioner a security plan for the event, which security plan is Acceptable to the commissioner.
(2) It is a term of every event permit that each time in the 30-day period Referred to in subsection (1) that there is a change in a plan or Information provided under that subsection, the promoter must provide To the commissioner an updated security plan that is acceptable to the Commissioner.
Division 5 — medical requirements Contestants — pre-match requirements 19 (1) Before competing in an event, a contestant must provide to the Commissioner all the following:
(a) The certification, in the english language, of an ophthalmologist or Optometrist who has performed an eye examination on the contestant Within the 90-day period immediately preceding the date of the event, That the ophthalmologist or optometrist (i) Has examined the contestant on the date or dates set out in the Certificate, and (ii) Is of the opinion that the contestant is fit to compete in a Professional contest or exhibition; (b) The certification, in the english language, of a physician lawfully Entitled to practise medicine in the place where the physical Examination is performed who has performed a physical examination on The contestant within the 90-day period immediately preceding the date Of the event, that the physician (i) Has examined the contestant on the date or dates set out in the Certificate, and (ii) Is of the opinion that the contestant is fit to compete in a Professional contest or exhibition; (c) Negative results of tests for hiv and hepatitis b and c performed on Samples taken from the contestant within the 90-day period immediately Preceding the date of the event; (d) Other medical information the commissioner requests as relevant to the Contestant's condition.
(2) Before competing in an event, a female contestant must provide to the Commissioner negative results of a pregnancy test performed by a Physician on samples taken from the contestant within the 7-day period Immediately preceding the date of the event.
(3) Before competing in an event, a contestant must (a) Consent in writing to (i) Submit to medical examinations by the ringside physician before, During or after a match, and (ii) Accept any medical treatment recommended by the ringside physician Before, during or after a match, and (b) Submit to a pre-match medical examination by the ringside physician at The place and time specified by the promoter.
(4) A contestant must not compete in an event if the contestant fails to (a) Consent as required under subsection (3) (a), (b) Submit to an examination referred to in subsection (3) (b), or (c) Accept medical treatment recommended by the ringside physician before A match.
(5) If, after an examination referred to in subsection (3) (b), the Ringside physician determines that a contestant is not fit to compete, The contestant must not compete in the event.
(6) A contestant, the contestant's manager or the promoter of the event Must report the fact to the commissioner at the weigh-in ceremony if The contestant suffered an illness, injury or knockout within the Preceding 90-day period.
(7) If an event is postponed for more than 24 hours, a contestant must Submit to another pre-match medical examination.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 14.] Contestants — requirements during match 19.1 (1) A contestant must submit to a medical examination by the ringside Physician during a match on request of the ringside physician or Referee.
(2) A contestant must not continue to compete in an event if the Contestant fails to (a) Submit to an examination referred to in subsection (1), or (b) Accept medical treatment recommended by the ringside physician during A match.
(3) If, after an examination referred to in subsection (1), the ringside Physician determines that a contestant is not fit to compete, the Contestant must not continue to compete in the event.
[en. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 15.] Contestants — post-match requirements 20 (1) At the end of a match, each contestant must submit to a medical Examination by the ringside physician.
(2) As part of a post-match medical examination, the ringside physician May order the contestant to submit to a brain mapping technique or a Magnetic resonance imaging scan.
(3) If the commissioner imposes a post-match medical suspension after an Examination referred to in subsection (1), the contestant (a) Must not compete in an event, or engage in prohibited training Activities, for the period specified in the document imposing the Suspension, and (b) Must consent in writing to the post-match medical suspension by Signing the document imposing the suspension.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 16.] Drug and alcohol testing 21 (1) On request of the commissioner, a contestant must report for and Provide samples for testing for the presence of a banned substance.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, the world anti-doping agency's List of prohibited substances and methods applies as amended from time To time.
(3) A contestant must not compete in an event if the contestant fails to Comply with a request under subsection (1).
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 17.] Commissioner may cancel post-match medical suspension 22 If the commissioner is satisfied that a contestant who is subject to a Post-match medical suspension imposed by the commissioner is fit to Compete in a match, the commissioner may cancel the post-match medical Suspension.
Part 3 — conduct of professional contests or exhibitions Rules for boxing events 23 (1) Subject to the act and the regulations, a boxing event must be carried Out in accordance with the association of boxing commissions' (a) Unified rules of boxing, as amended from time to time, and (b) Unified championship rules, as amended from time to time.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference in the unified rules Of boxing or the unified championship rules to the term set out in Column 1 of the following table must be read as the term set out Opposite in column 2:
Table
Column 1
Column 2
Bout
Match
Boxer
Contestant
(3) Boxers must compete in the following weight classes:
(a) Flyweight: maximum 50.8 kg (112 lb.); (b) Bantamweight: maximum 53.53 kg (118 lb.); (c) Featherweight: maximum 57.15 kg (126 lb.); (d) Lightweight: maximum 61.24 kg (135 lb.); (e) Super lightweight: maximum 63.50 kg (140 lb.); (f) Welterweight: maximum 66.68 kg (147 lb.); (g) Super welterweight: maximum 69.85 kg (154 lb.); (h) Middleweight: maximum 72.57 kg (160 lb.); (i) Super middleweight: maximum 76.21 kg (168 lb.); (j) Light heavyweight: maximum 79.38 kg (175 lb.); (k) Cruiserweight: maximum 86.18 kg (190 lb.); (l) Heavyweight: over 86.18 kg (190 lb.).
[am. b.c. reg. 113/2022, s. 4.] Rules for mma events 24 (1) Subject to the act and the regulations, (a) A mixed martial arts event, other than a kickboxing event, must be Carried out in accordance with the association of boxing commissions And combative sports unified rules of mixed martial arts, as amended From time to time, and (b) A kickboxing event must be carried out in accordance with the Association of boxing commissions and combative sports unified rules Of professional kickboxing, as amended from time to time.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference in the unified rules Of mixed martial arts or the unified rules of professional kickboxing To the term set out in column 1 of the following table must be Read as the term set out opposite in column 2:
Table
Column 1
Column 2
Bout
Match
Competition
Match
Fighter
Contestant
Inspector
Dressing room supervisor Mixed martial artist Contestant
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 18; 60/2020, s. 3.] Catch-weight match 25 (1) In this section, "catch-weight match" Means
(a) A match between contestants in which the contestants are not within The same weight class, or (b) A match between contestants at least one of whom exceeds the Contestant's agreed weight.
(2) Despite sections 23 (3) and 24 (1) or the contestants' agreed weights, If the contestants agree to compete, the commissioner may allow a Catch-weight match if the commissioner is satisfied that the match Between the particular contestants would be fair, safe and Competitive.
[am. b.c. reg. 113/2022, s. 1.] Officials required 26 (1) For each event in respect of which an event permit has been issued, The commissioner must designate (a) At least one referee, (b) At least 3 judges, (c) At least 2 ringside physicians, (d) At least one timekeeper, (e) If the event includes a boxing match, at least one knockdown Timekeeper,
(f) At least one scorekeeper, and (g) At least 4 dressing room supervisors.
(2) The commissioner may designate more officials than are required under Subsection (1) as the commissioner considers necessary for a Particular event.
(3) If a designated official is unable to perform or complete the Designated official's duties at an event, the commissioner must (a) Designate a substitute official, or (b) If there is no substitute official available, cancel or terminate the Event, as applicable.
(4) The name of the referee for an event or match must not be disclosed Before it is announced at the event.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 19; 113/2022, s. 5.] Payment of officials 27 (1) An official described in column 1 of the following table must be paid An amount, as determined by the commissioner, not less than the amount Set out in column 2, and not more than the amount set out in Column 3, opposite the official's description in column 1:
Table
Item
Column 1
Official
Column 2
Minimum fee Column 3
Maximum fee 1 Referee for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of not More than 2 500 $100 $2 500 2 Referee for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of Greater than 2 500 $250 $2 500 3 Ringside physician who performs the pre-match medical Examinations for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of Not more than 2 500 $1 000 $2 500 4 Ringside physician who does not perform the pre-match medical Examinations for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of Not more than 2 500 $600 $1 800 5 Ringside physician who performs the pre-match medical Examinations for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of Greater than 2 500 $1 200 $2 500 6 Ringside physician who does not perform the pre-match medical Examinations for an event at a venue with a seating capacity of Greater than 2 500 $1 000 $2 500 7 Judge
$100 $1 000 8 Scorekeeper
$100 $400 9 Timekeeper
$100 $400 10 Dressing room supervisor $100 $400 (2) In addition to the amounts under subsection (1), an official who does Not reside in the locale in which the event takes place must be paid The actual cost of (a) Accommodation for each night the official is required to remain in the Locale, not exceeding $120 per night, (b) Meals for each day or part of a day the official is required to remain In the locale, not exceeding (i) $10 for breakfast, (ii) $15 for lunch, and (iii) $25 for supper, and (c) Transportation, approved by the commissioner in advance of the travel, To and from the locale.
(3) Despite subsection (2) (c), if an official is travelling in the Official's private vehicle, the official must be paid $0.51 per km if The official must travel more than 32 km each way, as estimated By the official and approved by the commissioner in advance of the Travel.
[en. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 20.] Weigh-in ceremony 28 (1) The promoter of an event must ensure that a weigh-in ceremony takes Place
(a) No earlier than 30 hours and no later than 24 hours before the Scheduled time of the event, and (b) At a location approved by the commissioner.
(2) Only scales approved by the commissioner may be used at a weigh-in Ceremony.
(3) The scales referred to in subsection (2) must be available for use of Contestants during the 2-hour period before the beginning of the Weigh-in ceremony.
(4) The weighing of a contestant at a weigh-in ceremony must be performed (a) By a person approved by the commissioner, and (b) In the presence of (i) The person who is to be the contestant's opponent, and (ii) A representative of the commissioner.
(5) A contestant may compete in a match even if the contestant is up to 0.454 kg (1 lb.) over the contestant's agreed weight for the Match, unless the match is a championship match.
(6) A contestant who is over the contestant's agreed weight, as modified Under subsection (5), if applicable, by less than 3% must be Given one hour to reduce to the applicable weight.
(7) A contestant who is 3% or more over the contestant's agreed weight, as Modified under subsection (5), if applicable, may not compete in The event unless authorized by the commissioner.
(8) If an event is postponed for more than 24 hours, another weigh-in Ceremony is required within the period referred to in Subsection (1) in relation to the rescheduled event.
[am. b.c. reg. 113/2022, s. 1.] Event premises, facilities and equipment 29 (1) The promoter of an event must provide all the following at the event:
(a) A medical room that contains a bed and access to clean running water; (b) In the case of a boxing event, tape and gauze as required under the Rules referred to in section 23 [rules for boxing events] ; (b.1) In the case of a mixed martial arts event that is not a kickboxing Event, tape and gauze as required under the rules referred to in Section 24 (1) (b) [rules for mma event] ; (b.2) In the case of a kickboxing event, tape and gauze; (c) An assortment of gloves in various sizes to be selected by contestants At the weigh-in ceremony; (d) Clean towels, bottled water and ice in bags.
(2) If the event is a professional boxing contest or exhibition, the Promoter must provide a ring that meets all the following Requirements:
(a) The ring must be square and each side of the ring within the ropes Must not be less than 4.8 m (18 ft.) or more than 6.1 m (20 ft.); (b) The ring must be surrounded by an apron that extends not less than 68 cm (27 in.) and not more than 76 cm (30 in.) Beyond the ropes; (c) The floor of the ring must have a 2.54-cm (1 in.) base made of wood or Other suitable material and padded with a 2.54-cm (1 in.) layer Of ensolite or similar closed-cell foam padding; (d) The padding on the floor of the ring must be covered with canvas or Other suitable material that is tightly stretched over the padding and Tied securely under the apron; (e) The ring must be equipped with 4 metal corner posts that are padded in A manner approved by the commissioner; (f) The ring must be constructed of not fewer than 4 horizontal tightly Strung ropes that are at least 2.54 cm (1 in.) in diameter And wrapped in soft material, which ropes begin at 46 cm (18 in.) from the ring floor and end at 137 cm (54 in.) From the ring floor; (g) The ropes on each side of the ring must be secured by 2 vertical ties Equidistant from the corner posts to keep the ropes from spreading Apart;
(h) There must be at least 2 sets of stairs up to the ring.
[am. b.c. regs. 75/2014, s. 21; 60/2020, s. 4.] Ringside physicians 30 (1) A ringside physician for an event must conduct the pre- and post-match Medical examinations.
(2) A ringside physician for an event must be available at the ringside During a match.
(3) During a match, a ringside physician may enter the ring and examine a Contestant to determine if the contestant is able to continue the Match only if the referee suspends the match for that purpose, either On request of the ringside physician or on the referee's initiative.
(4) If the referee suspends a match under subsection (3), the timekeeper Must note the time at which the round was suspended and the applicable Of the following:
(a) If the match continues, the time at which it continued; (b) If the match is stopped, record the time the match was suspended as The time the match stopped.
(5) If, on an examination under subsection (3), the ringside physician is Satisfied that a contestant is unable to continue the match, the Ringside physician may direct the referee to stop the match and, in That event, the referee must stop the match.
(6) If, on an examination under subsection (3), the ringside physician is Satisfied that a contestant is able to continue the match, only the Referee may give the order to continue the match.
Injuries
31 (1) If, during a match, the ringside physician believes that a contestant Has suffered an injury that may make it unsafe to complete the match, The physician must (a) Request that the referee stop the match, (b) Provide emergency treatment, (c) Make the recommendations for further treatment, including without Limitation, hospitalization, the physician considers necessary, and (d) Make a report to the commissioner of the injury, the treatment and the Recommendations, if any.
(2) If, during a match, the ringside physician requests the referee to Stop the match because of an injury, the referee must stop the match.
(3) If a ringside physician considers it advisable, the ringside physician May order a contestant and the contestant's second to remain in the Ring or on the premises for a period specified by the physician for Observation by the physician.
(4) If a ringside physician makes a recommendation under Subsection (1) or an order under subsection (3), the Contestant and second must comply.
(5) If, during a match, a contestant is knocked unconscious, only the Ringside physician, an emergency medical assistant or the referee may Attend to the contestant.
Second duties 32 A second who appears with a contestant for a match must comply with The following rules:
(a) If the contestant has more than one second, only the chief second and One other second may enter the ring between rounds; (b) A second must not enter the ring until the timekeeper signals the end Of a round; (c) A second must leave the platform promptly when the timekeeper signals The beginning of a round and must remove from the platform anything The second brought onto the platform; (d) A second must not apply water to a contestant's body between rounds, Other than to spray water into the contestant's mouth; (e) A second must not use monsel's solution, or a solution that is Chemically similar to monsel's solution, in the ring during a match; (f) A second may use only the following on a contestant during a match:
(i) Thrombin, avetine and thrombin-soaked pads; (ii) Adrenaline 1/1 000 solution, but only for topical hemostasis of cuts And nosebleeds; (iii) Petroleum jelly; (iv) Gauze pads; (v) Adhesive surgeons' tape; (vi) Clean towels; (vii) Water;
(viii) Cotton swabs; (ix) Ice in bags; (x) Eye iron; (xi) A substance or item authorized, in writing, by the commissioner before The match, if the substance or item is necessary for the safety of the Contestant and is not prohibited under paragraph (e); (g) A second must not interfere with the progress of a match or with the Opposing contestant.
[am. b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 22.] Schedules a and b Repealed. [b.c. reg. 75/2014, s. 23.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Athletic commissioner act , s.b.c. 2012, c. 29, ss. 46 and 48.]