B.C. Reg. 260/86
O.C. 2073/86
Deposited November 28, 1986
effective December 15, 1986
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Motion Picture Act
Motion Picture Act Regulations
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Prescribed definitions
1
(1)
In this regulation,
"Act"
means the
Motion Picture Act
.
(2)
In the Act and these regulations:
"explicit sexual scenes"
means scenes in the motion picture that depict a sexual act, the
occurrence of which is actually visible by the viewer;
"general release film"
means a film that is not an adult film;
"joint holder"
means a person who holds a video retail licence and an adult film
retailer licence in respect of the distribution of adult films and
general release films from a single premises;
"sexual act"
means a real or simulated act of
(a)
intercourse or masturbation,
(b)
genital—genital, genital—anal, oral—genital or oral—anal connection
between human beings, or
(c)
genital connection between human beings and objects;
"sexually suggestive scenes"
means scenes in a motion picture that depict
(a)
sexual activity other than explicit sexual scenes, or
(b)
a sexual act that is not actually visible to the viewer, but the scene
and the context in which it appears are intended to suggest that a
sexual act is or may be occurring.
[am. B.C. Regs. 117/88, s. 1; 316/95, s. 1; 184/2007, s. 1.]
Prescribed material under section 14 (2) (d) and (f) of the Act
2
For the purpose of
(a)
paragraph (c) of the definition of "adult motion picture" in the Act,
and
(b)
section 5 (3) (i) of the Act,
urination and defecation for sexual gratification are prescribed.
Prescribed circumstances and purposes
2.1
For the purposes of section 2 (6) of the Act, the exhibition of a
motion picture for educational purposes by a university, college or
other educational institution subject to the
University Act
, the
College and Institute Act
, the
School Act
or the
Independent School Act
are prescribed circumstances and purposes in respect of which section
2 does not apply.
[en. B.C. Reg. 296/2003, s. 1.]
Classification
3
On approving a motion picture submitted under section 2 (1) of the
Act, the director must classify the motion picture into one of the
following categories:
(a)
General
— Suitable for viewing by persons of all ages. Occasional violence,
swearing and coarse language, and the most innocent of sexually
suggestive scenes and nudity, are permitted in this category.
(b)
Parental Guidance
— Parental guidance advised. Theme or content may not be suitable for
all children although there is no age restriction. Motion pictures in
this category may contain less subtle sexually suggestive scenes and
nudity and a more realistic portrayal of violence than in the General
category; coarse language may occur more often than in the General
category.
(c)
14A
— Suitable for persons 14 years of age or older. Persons under 14
years of age must view these motion pictures accompanied by an adult.
Motion pictures in this category may contain violence, coarse language
or sexually suggestive scenes, or any combination of them.
(d)
18A
— Persons under 18 years of age must view these motion pictures
accompanied by an adult. Motion pictures in this category will contain
horror, explicit violence, frequent coarse language or scenes that are
more sexually suggestive than in the 14A category, or any combination
of them.
(e)
Restricted
— Restricted to persons 18 years of age and over. Persons under 18
years of age are not permitted to attend under any circumstances.
These motion pictures are "adult motion pictures", as defined in the
Act, and may contain explicit sexual scenes, violence or scenes
referred to in section 5 (3) of the Act, or any combination of them.
The director will assign this classification to motion pictures if the
director considers that the theme, subject matter or plot of the adult
motion picture is artistic, historical, political, educational or
scientific.
(f)
Adult
— Restricted to persons 18 years of age and over. Persons under 18
years of age are not permitted to attend under any circumstances.
These motion pictures are "adult motion pictures", as defined in the
Act, and may contain explicit sexual scenes or scenes of brutality or
torture to persons or animals, or any combination of them, that are
portrayed in a realistic and explicit manner; however, the scenes
would, in the director's opinion, be tolerable to the community.
[en. B.C. Reg. 363/96, s. 1.]
Advertising and display
4
(1)
No advertisements for adult films shall be placed, posted or exhibited
on the premises of an adult film retailer or the premises of a theatre
holding a licence permitting the exhibition of films classified as
"Restricted" or "Adult" such that they are visible to members of the
public from outside of the premises of the adult film retailer or
theatre.
(2)
No advertisement, including adult film boxes, shall be placed, posted
or exhibited on the premises of a joint holder such that they are
visible to customers in that part of the premises that offers general
release films for sale or rent.
(3)
No person operating or employed in the premises of an adult film
retailer shall exhibit, by any means, adult films on those premises
such that the exhibition is visible to customers who are on the
premises.
(4)
Films classified as Restricted must be segregated from other
categories of films on the premises of a joint holder.
(5)
The shelving where the films referred to in subsection (4) are located
must
(a)
be visible from the cashier's counter, and
(b)
have a sign above the shelving, displayed in a conspicuous manner,
informing persons on the premises that such films are not to be rented
or sold to persons under 18 years of age.
[am. B.C. Regs. 81/90, s. 1; 363/96, s. 2.]
No admittance to minors
5
(1)
Every adult film retailer shall display in a conspicuous manner at all
entrances to the adult film retailer's premises, a sign reading "No
admittance to persons under age 18".
(2)
Every joint holder shall display in a conspicuous manner at the
entrance to that part of the joint holder's premises where adult films
are offered for sale or rent, a sign reading "No admittance to persons
under age 18".
(3)
Subsection (2) does not apply to a joint holder who, as a condition of
the joint holder's licence under section 6 (4) (b) of the Act, is
offering adult films for sale or rent in a manner where all
advertising material as well as the adult films themselves are
physically and visually segregated from minors in the manner permitted
by those conditions of licence.
(4)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 117/88, s. 2.]
(5)
An operator of a theatre shall not employ a minor at any time when a
motion picture that has been classified as "Restricted" or "Adult" is
being exhibited.
[am. B.C. Regs. 117/88, s. 2; 363/96, s. 3; 76/2022, s. 7.]
Repealed
6
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/2003, s. 2.]
Repealed
7
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2016, Sch. s. 1.]
Licences and licence fees
8
(1)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2016, Sch. s. 2 (a).]
(2)
A person who wishes to obtain or renew a licence required under the
Act must provide the director with the information the director
requires.
(3)
A licence issued under section 8 of the Act is valid for
(a)
one year after its date of issue, or
(b)
a period not exceeding 6 months after its date of issue if the
director considers it to be in the public interest to issue an interim
licence.
(3.1)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2016, Sch. s. 2 (a).]
(4)
A licence issued under section 8 of the Act is not transferable, but a
licence remains, with the consent of the director, valid when the
licensee changes the licensee's location with respect to the new
location.
(5)
A licensee shall notify the director in writing of any change in the
information provided under subsection (2) within 30 days after the
change of fact or information.
(6)
Where a licensee is a corporation, every licence issued to the
corporation under the Act and these regulations is cancelled upon a
transfer of the controlling interest in the corporation to another
person.
(7)
Where an adult film distributor, or a director, senior officer, as
defined in the
Business Corporations Act
, or shareholder of a corporation that is an adult film distributor
contravenes the Act, these regulations or a decision of the director
made under the Act or these regulations, or is convicted of an offence
under the Act or these regulations, the director may require the adult
film distributor to post and maintain a bond or other security under
the
Bonding Act
as a condition of issuing or renewing a licence.
[am. B.C. Regs. 81/90, s. 3; 108/91, s. 1; 316/95, s. 3; 363/96, s. 4;
184/2007, s. 3; 293/2016, Sch. s. 2; 76/2022, s. 7.]
Consent to criminal record search
8.1
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), for the purposes of an application made
under section 8 for an adult film distributor licence, adult film
retailer licence, multipurpose distributor licence or restricted
designated theatre licence, a criminal record check authorization
satisfactory to the director must be completed and delivered to the
director by the following persons:
(a)
if the applicant is a proprietorship, the proprietor;
(b)
if the applicant is a partnership, each partner;
(c)
if the applicant is a corporation, every director and senior officer,
as defined in the
Business Corporations Act
, and every shareholder who holds 25% or more of the shares of the
corporation;
(d)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 4 (c).]
(e)
the manager of the store or business.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply to a person referred to in paragraphs
(a) to (e)
(a)
if that person was, before September 1, 1995, the holder of, or a
salesperson or manager working under, a licence first issued before
September 1, 1995, or
(b)
if the criminal record check authorization has already been completed
and delivered to the director in respect of that person.
[en. B.C. Reg. 316/95, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 4.]
Repealed
8.2
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 5.]
Records
9
(1)
Every adult film distributor licensed under section 8 of the Act must
maintain and keep at the adult film distributor's premises, for a
period of 3 years from the date of issue, all records relating to the
distribution of adult films including
(a)
a copy of each invoice for every adult film distributed, and
(b)
a copy of all banking records, shipping invoices, waybills and
commission statements for salespersons.
(2)
The director may, at any time, require the adult film distributor to
produce or deliver to the director all records referred to in
subsection (1).
(3)
The invoice required by subsection (1) must indicate
(a)
the title of each adult film,
(b)
the number of copies of each adult film,
(c)
the name of the adult film distributor,
(d)
the name of the salesperson distributing the adult film,
(e)
the name of the purchaser of the adult film, and
(f)
the date of distribution of each adult film.
[en. B.C. Reg. 316/95, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 363/96, s. 5.]
Decals
10
(1)
In this section,
"decal"
includes a certificate or other evidence of approval.
(2)
Where, under section 5 (6) of the Act, the director approves an adult
motion picture and that approval is evidenced by a decal, an adult
film distributor, or an agent of the adult film distributor approved
by the director, who purchases one or more decals for an approved
adult film or copy shall, within the Province, affix the decal to the
adult film or copy.
(3)
Notwithstanding subsection (2), where an adult film distributor or an
agent of the adult film distributor posts a bond or other security
under the
Bonding Act
, the adult film distributor or agent may, in a jurisdiction outside
of the Province and with the approval of the director, affix the decal
to the adult film or copy.
(4)
No person other than the director shall, without the approval of the
director, within or without the Province, distribute a decal unless
the decal is attached to an approved adult film or copy.
(5)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 316/95, s. 6 (b).]
[en. B.C. Reg. 81/90, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 108/91, s. 2; 316/95, s. 6;
363/96, s. 6.]
Accountant's report
10.1
Every adult film distributor must submit to the director, by March 31
in each year, a report respecting the adult film distributor's books,
records and accounts, prepared by an accountant in a form and manner
approved by the director.
[en. B.C. Reg. 363/96, s. 7.]
Inspection and accounting
11
The director or a person authorized by the director may enter the
premises of an adult film distributor or the premises of an agent of
the adult film distributor at any time during regular business hours
for the purpose of
(a)
inspecting the facilities where a decal, certificate or other evidence
of approval is affixed to an adult film or copy, or
(b)
making an accounting of each decal, certificate or other evidence of
approval purchased by the adult film distributor for an approved adult
film or copy.
[en. B.C. Reg. 81/90, s. 4.]
Reconsiderations by the director
12
(1)
A licensee, an applicant for a licence or an applicant for an
exemption may request the director to reconsider a decision or order
made under the Act or these regulations, or a seizure under section 12
(2) or (3) of the Act.
(2)
A request under subsection (1) must
(a)
be in writing and in a form acceptable to the director, and
(b)
be delivered to the director within 30 days from the date of
notification by the director of the decision or order or the seizure.
(3)
The director may refuse to reconsider a decision, order or seizure if,
in the opinion of the director, the request for reconsideration is
frivolous, vexatious or made in bad faith.
(4)
The director may extend the 30 day period in which to submit a request
for reconsideration in subsection (2) (b) if, in the opinion of the
director, extenuating circumstances prevented submission of the
request within the 30 days.
(5)
Subject to any applicable fee set by the administrative authority, the
fee for a reconsideration is $100 and must accompany the request for
reconsideration.
(6)
If a reconsideration has been commenced, the person who is requesting
a reconsideration of a decision or order may apply to the director for
an order that the decision or order not take effect until the outcome
of the reconsideration.
(7)
The director may make an order under subsection (6) if the director
considers that special circumstances exist.
(8)
For the purpose of reconsidering a decision, order or seizure the
director may consider new information.
(9)
After reconsidering a decision, order or seizure under the Act or
these regulations the director may
(a)
confirm the original decision, order or seizure,
(b)
vary the original decision, order or seizure, including the effective
date of the original decision or order,
(c)
substitute a new decision or order for the original decision or order,
(d)
overturn the original decision, order or seizure, or
(e)
refer the original decision or order back to the original decision
maker.
(10)
The director's reconsideration decision must
(a)
be in writing, and
(b)
include or be followed by reasons.
[en. B.C. Reg. 296/2003, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 6.]
Schedules 1 and 2
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 293/2016, Sch. s. 3.]
Form 1
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 7.]
Form 2
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/2003, s. 4.]
Form 3
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 184/2007, s. 7.]
Form 4
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 363/96, s. 11.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Motion Picture Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 314, s. 14.]
