B.C. Reg. 1/97
O.C. 1/97
Deposited January 3, 1997
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Motor Vehicle Act
Motor Vehicle Act ICBC Records Regulation
[Last amended March 5, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 62/2021]
Interpretation
1
In this regulation
"Act"
means the
Motor Vehicle Act
.
Records prescribed for section 82 (10) of the Act
2
For the purpose of section 82 (10) of the Act, the following records
are prescribed:
(a)
with the exception of the records described in the Superintendent of
Motor Vehicles Records Regulation, every record, as defined in the
Interpretation Act
, respecting the driving or operation, or the driving and operation,
of motor vehicles, that is kept under the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
(i)
every certificate, transcript, copy or record of a conviction
described in section 104 (1) of the Act;
(ii)
every certificate, transcript, copy or certified copy of an order or
judgment described in section 104 (2) of the Act;
(iii)
every record that sets out or describes, with respect to a person,
particulars of or pertaining to a prohibition from operating a motor
vehicle imposed under section 259 of the
Criminal Code
(Canada);
(iv)
every record, of the type commonly known as a "driver's record" or
"driving record", that sets out or describes the driving history of a
person;
(b)
those records kept under the Act that pertain to or set out the
particulars of driver's licences, including but not limited to the
following:
(i)
driver's licences and records that set out the particulars of driver's
licences;
(ii)
driver's licence applications and records that set out the particulars
of driver's licence applications;
(iii)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the cancellation
of driver's licences;
(iv)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the status of
driver's licences or of driver's licence applications;
(c)
those records that pertain to or set out the particulars of
certificates given under section 83.2 of the Act by enforcement
officers and those certificates;
(d)
those records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the
contravention of section 140, 146 (1), (3), (5) or (7), 147 or 148 (1)
of the Act, if evidence of the contravention was gathered through the
use of a speed monitoring device prescribed for the purpose of section
83.1 (2) of the Act;
(d.1)
those records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the
contravention of section 129 (1) or (5) (a), 131 (1) (a) or (2) (a) or
134 of the Act, if evidence of the contravention was gathered through
the use of a traffic light safety device prescribed for the purpose of
section 83.1 (2.1) of the Act;
(e)
those records kept under the Act or the
Commercial Transport Act
that pertain to or set out the particulars of one or more of the
registration, licensing, permitting, inspection, taxation and
insurance of vehicles, motor vehicles or both, including but not
limited to the following:
(i)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of applications for
licences, number plates, certificates of insurance or motor vehicle
liability insurance cards;
(ii)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the cancellation
of registrations;
(iii)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of the transfer of
the title or interest in any vehicle or motor vehicle;
(iv)
records that pertain to or set out the particulars of licences or
number plates surrendered, cancelled or dealt with as directed by the
corporation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 215/99, App. 2; 62/2021, App. 1.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 318, s. 82.]
