B.c. reg. 53/2002 Schedule 3 of o.c. 1367/97 Deposited march 20, 2002 This consolidation is current to august 29, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after august 29, 2023.
Link to point in time Muskwa-kechika management area act Muskwa-kechika management plan regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 269/2010, october 4, 2010] Contents
1.0 — introduction 1.1 — the muskwa-kechika management area 1.2 — development of the muskwa-kechika management plan 2.0 — muskwa-kechika management plan implementation 2.1 — roles and responsibilities 2.1.1 advisory board 2.1.2 inter-agency management committee 2.1.3 first nations 3.0 — direction for local strategic planning 3.1 — local strategic plans 3.2 — approval of local strategic plans 3.3 — requirements for local strategic plans 3.3.1 landscape unit objective 3.3.2 pre-tenure plan 3.3.3 recreation management plan 3.4 — exceptions to requirements for local strategic planning 3.5 — consistency of plans, approvals, permits and other Instruments
4.0 — direction for operational activity 4.1 — consistency with local strategic plan 4.1.1 forest and range resources 4.1.2 oil and gas exploration and development 4.1.3 commercial backcountry recreation 4.1.4 park management 4.1.5 wildlife management 4.2 — approval of forest development plans 4.3 — approval of special-use permits 5.0 — monitoring and amendment 5.1 — annual monitoring report 5.2 — amendment 5.2.1 interim amendments 5.2.2 scheduled amendments — plan review 5.3 — consultation and notice requirements 5.3.1 consultation 5.3.2 notice 6.0 — transition provisions 6.1 — grandparenting of existing plans and permits 6.2 — transition approval of forest development plans 6.3 — renewable or replaceable agreements and permits 6.4 — consistency with amendments 7.0 — general management direction 7.1 — general management direction for the muskwa-kechika Management area 7.2 — fort nelson lrmp general management direction 7.3 — fort st. john lrmp general management direction 8.0 — special resource management zones 8.1 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp special resource Management zones 8.2 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort nelson Lrmp special resource management zones 8.2.1 eight mile/sulphur 8.2.2 aeroplane lake 8.2.3 churchill 8.2.4 fishing 8.2.5 moodie 8.2.6 muskwa west 8.2.7 prophet 8.2.8 rabbit 8.2.9 rainbow 8.2.10 sandpile 8.2.11 stone mountain 8.2.12 terminal 8.2.13 kechika river corridor 8.2.14 muskwa river corridor 8.2.15 toad river corridor 8.2.16 turnagain/dall rivers corridor 8.3 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort st.
John lrmp special resource management zones 8.3.1 besa-halfway-chowade 8.3.2 graham-north 9.0 — enhanced resource development zones 9.1 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp enhanced Resource management zones 9.2 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort nelson Lrmp enhanced resource management zones 9.2.1 alaska highway corridor 10.0 — protection resource management zones 10.1 — management direction for provincial parks, recreation Areas and ecological reserves 10.1.1 sikanni chief river ecological reserve 10.1.2 tetsa river provincial park 10.1.3 liard river hot springs provincial park 10.1.4 stone mountain provincial park 10.1.5 muncho lake provincial park 10.1.6 wokkpash recreation area 10.2 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp protection Resource management zones 10.3 — area-specific objectives and strategies for the fort Nelson lrmp protection resource management zones 10.3.1 denetiah (including access corridor and dall river Old growth site) 10.3.2 liard river corridor 10.3.3 northern rocky mountains 10.3.4  horneline creek protected area 10.3.5 prophet river hot springs protected area 10.3.6 toad river hot springs protected area 10.4 — area-specific objectives and strategies for the fort St. john lrmp protection resource management zones 10.4.1 graham-laurier 10.4.2 redfern-keily creek 1.0 — introduction 1.1 — the muskwa-kechika management area The muskwa-kechika management area encompasses an area of approximately 4.45 million hectares of crown land where extensive boreal plains And muskeg of the east meet the rocky mountains of the west. it is Bounded on the south by the needham creek drainage in the misinchinka Range, on the west by the rocky mountains, on the east by the muskwa and Halfway plateaus and on the north by the liard plain. the area overlaps The fort nelson and fort st. john land and resource management planning Areas.
The area includes parts of the alberta plateau, the rocky mountain Foothills, the liard plateau, and the liard plain. the topography of the Area rises from the vast flat alberta plateau up the rolling foothill Landscapes to the rugged height of the rocky mountains. the river Systems run straight, meander and braid their way through the deeply cut Bedrock of the mountains. this entire region is within the arctic Watershed and is largely drained by the liard, muskwa, toad, kechika and Sikanni chief rivers.
It is one of the few remaining large, intact and almost unroaded Wilderness areas south of the 60th parallel. it supports a diverse Number of large mammals including moose, elk, mule deer, whitetail deer, Caribou, plains bison, mountain sheep, mountain goat, wolves, black Bears and grizzly bears in population densities of global importance.
Few places in the world match the natural features of the muskwa-kechika Management area in terms of species groupings, remoteness and minimal Development. the area is also well endowed with rich energy and mineral Resources. in general, oil and gas reserves dominate the eastern portion Of the area while a variety of metallic and non-metallic resources can Be found in the central and western portions of the area. valuable Timber resources are also present in the southern portion of the area.
There are numerous first nations groups within the area including the Fort nelson first nation, prophet river first nation, kaska dena first Nation, lower post first nation and the halfway river band. a portion of The muskwa-kechika management area is within the area covered by Treaty 8.
The fort nelson-liard and peace regional districts are within the Muskwa-kechika management area and include the settlements of toad river And muncho lake.
1.2 — development of the muskwa-kechika management plan Objectives for the management of the muskwa-kechika management area were Developed as part of the fort nelson and fort st. john land and resource Management plans. participants in these processes recommended that the Objectives for the muskwa-kechika management area be formally designated Establishing a separate jurisdiction: the muskwa-kechika management Area. the muskwa-kechika management plan identifies objectives for the Management of the muskwa-kechika management area and specifies an Integrated and coordinated planning structure to meet these objectives.
Sections 2.0 to 6.0 describe the management framework and Sections 7.0 to 10.0 specify the objectives for management.
2.0 — muskwa-kechika management plan implementation The muskwa-kechika management plan will be implemented by all relevant Government agencies through agency-specific management activities, local Strategic plans, resource development permits and crown land and natural Resource dispositions. development plans and permits will be consistent With the objectives and strategies of resource management zones and any Local strategic plans as specified in the management plan.
Local strategic plans will include a description of the linkages to the Muskwa-kechika management plan and an explanation of how the local Strategic plan meets the objectives and strategies outlined in this Plan. conversely, it is recognized that the resource management zone Objectives and strategies in this plan may be amended in the future Based on feedback from local strategic plans.
2.1 — roles and responsibilities 2.1.1 advisory board An advisory board, appointed by the premier, will advise government on Natural resource management in the muskwa-kechika management area to Ensure that activities within the area are consistent with the Objectives of the muskwa-kechika management plan.
The advisory board will be responsible for:
(a) conducting semi-annual reviews of the issuance of tenures and Approval of operational activities to examine the achievement of Management plan objectives through local strategic planning and Operational activities; (b) reporting, at least annually, to the public and the premier on the Results of the board's semi-annual reviews and any other issues related To the management of the muskwa-kechika management area; (c) providing advice to the inter-agency management committee on Corporate priorities for and coordination of local strategic planning in The muskwa-kechika management area; (d) facilitating provincial, national and international exposure of the Values and management of the muskwa-kechika management area; (e) recommending and implementing measures to raise money for a Muskwa-kechika fund; (f) reviewing proposals and funding requests for, but not limited to, Research projects; and making recommendations for expenditures from the Muskwa-kechika fund; (g) supporting the initiation of local strategic plans for the Muskwa-kechika management area, to achieve the management plan Objectives;
(h) ensuring adequate public consultation in the preparation and Approval of local strategic plans, amendments to the muskwa-kechika Management plan, any other significant policy issue for the Muskwa-kechika management area, or as requested by the inter-agency Management committee; (i) providing recommendations to the environment and land use committee On any proposed amendments to the management plan.
The premier will appoint up to 17 members to the advisory board, Including a board chair, such that the advisory board represents a broad Range of interests. these would include, but not be limited to, first Nations, environmental groups, business, labour and fort nelson and fort St. john land and resource management plan participants. kaska dena Representatives would be appointed in accordance with the letter of Understanding between the kaska dena council and the province of british Columbia, signed september 24, 1997.
Advisory board members will be individuals noted for their scientific, Financial or community service experience and expertise. advisory board Appointments will be for a period of 1 to 3 years and will be Staggered to provide continuity of board operations.
The premier may also appoint up to five members as an honorary board.
Who will be individuals of provincial, national or international Stature. these members will serve as ambassadors to assist in raising The profile of the muskwa-kechika management area, but may not Participate fully in the working of the advisory board proper. the Advisory board chair will be the chair of the honorary board.
2.1.2 inter-agency management committee The responsibilities of the inter-agency management committee are as Follows:
(a) to assist in resolving conflicts between agencies and resource Users;
(b) to maintain a registry of plan documents and plan amendments, Including the muskwa-kechika management plan and local strategic plans, Available to the public and any interested parties; (c) to review and provide recommendations to the environment and land Use committee on any proposed amendments; (d) in partnership with the advisory board, to provide for and Coordinate public review and consultation as necessary; (e) in consultation with the advisory board, to prepare an annual Inter-agency workplan to facilitate the implementation of the Muskwa-kechika management plan; (f) to work in partnership with the advisory board to prepare an annual Monitoring report on plan implementation, amendments and expenditures.
2.1.3 first nations A letter of understanding, dated september 24, 1997, establishes an Agreement between the kaska dena council and the province of british Columbia regarding the muskwa-kechika management area. the Muskwa-kechika management plan is without prejudice to aboriginal or Treaty rights and treaty negotiations. first nations will be encouraged To have a direct role in the implementation and monitoring of the plan.
3.0 — direction for local strategic planning 3.1 — local strategic plans Local strategic plans must be consistent with the muskwa-kechika Management plan. local strategic plans are defined and may be Established, varied or canceled as follows:
Landscape unit objective (a) a local strategic plan for the purpose of forest and range use is a Landscape unit objective or objectives, as defined by the Forest practices code of british columbia act And established, varied or canceled in accordance with the Forest practices code of british columbia act And the management plan.
Pre-tenure plan (b) a local strategic plan for the purpose of oil and gas exploration And development is a pre-tenure plan, as defined by the Memorandum of understanding respecting operational land use planning For oil and gas activity in the northeast of british columbia, July 31, 1996
, or amendments thereof approved by the minister of environment, lands And parks, the minister of forests and the minister of employment and Investment.
Recreation management plan (c) a local strategic plan for the purpose of recreation is a recreation Management plan, as defined by the Memorandum of understanding respecting recreation planning in the Muskwa-kechika management area, december 1997 Or amendments thereof approved by the minister of environment, lands and Parks, the minister of forests and the minister of small business, Tourism and culture.
Park management plan (d) a local strategic plan for the purpose of the management of a park, Ecological reserve or recreation area is a park management plan, as Defined by Parks master plan policy, april 15, 1986 And the attached zoning amendment, or the Guidelines booklet for management direction statements, 1996 , or amendments of either as approved by the minister of environment, Lands and parks.
Wildlife management plan (e) a local strategic plan for the purpose of wildlife management is a Wildlife management plan, as defined by the Planning guide to wildlife management areas, september 1996 , or amendments thereof as approved by the minister of environment, Lands and parks.
3.2 — approval of local strategic plans Landscape unit objective (a) the establishment, variance or cancellation of a landscape unit Objective requires approval of the designated forest official, the Designated environment official and the designated employment and Investment official.
Recreation management plan (b) the approval, variance or cancellation of a recreation management Plan requires approval of the minister of small business, tourism and Culture and the environment and land use committee and that the plan be Established as part of schedule 6 of the muskwa-kechika management Order.
Pre-tenure plan (c) the approval, variance or cancellation of a pre-tenure plan requires Approval of the environment and land use committee and that the plan be Established as part of schedule 6 of the muskwa-kechika management Order.
(d) the approval, variance or cancellation of all other local strategic Plans requires approval by the environment and land use committee and That the plan be established as part of schedule 6 of the Muskwa-kechika management plan.
3.3 — requirements for local strategic plans Except as specified in section 3.4, local strategic plans are Prerequisite to approval of operational activities as follows:
3.3.1 landscape unit objective The approval of a forest development plan (as defined by the Forest practices code of british columbia act ) for a specific geographic area must be preceded by the approval of a Landscape unit objective or objectives for a landscape unit which Includes the area of the forest development plan.
3.3.2 pre-tenure plan The issuance, approval, permitting or authorization, by a minister, Ministry or agent of the crown, of an oil and gas development plan, Allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or Document of oil and gas development allocation or management must be Preceded by the approval of a pre-tenure plan which includes the subject Area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.
3.3.3 recreation management plan The issuance, approval, permitting or authorization, by a minister, Ministry or agent of the crown, of a commercial backcountry recreation Allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or Document of commercial backcountry recreation allocation or management For any area within the muskwa-kechika management area, must be preceded By the approval of a recreation management plan which includes the Subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.
3.4 — exceptions to requirements for local strategic planning Geophysical exploration (a) a pre-tenure plan is not a prerequisite to the issuance of a permit Under the Oil and gas activities act To carry out geophysical exploration.
Wildfire, pest or disease infestation (b) a local strategic plan is not a prerequisite to the approval, Issuance, permitting, or authorization of an allocation, tenure, Disposition, licence or any other instrument or document of allocation Or management considered necessary to address wildfire or a pest or Disease infestation to forests or wildlife. operational activities Associated with an outbreak of this kind need only be consistent with The objectives of the management plan.
[am. b.c. reg. 269/2010, sch. s. 11.] 3.5 — consistency of plans, approvals, permits and other instruments Local strategic plans must be consistent with the objectives and Strategies of the management plan described in sections 7.0 to 10.0. approvals, permits and plans which are subsequent to and take Direction from approved local strategic plans must be consistent with The local strategic plan but need not demonstrate consistency with the Objectives of the management plan.
4.0 — direction for operational activity 4.1 — consistency with local strategic plan Instruments or documents of allocation or management must be consistent With local strategic plans that direct their operation, as follows:
4.1.1 forest and range resources In accordance with the Forest practices code of british columbia act , operational plans for timber or range resource management must be Consistent with established landscape unit objectives. the Forest practices code of british columbia act Requires forest and range use activities to be consistent with Applicable operational plans. range use plans within provincial parks Must be consistent with park management plans.
4.1.2 oil and gas exploration and development Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry Or agent of the crown, of an oil and gas exploration or development Plan, allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument Or document of oil and gas development or exploration allocation or Management must be consistent with any pre-tenure plan which includes The subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or Management.
4.1.3 commercial backcountry recreation Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry Or agent of the crown, of a commercial backcountry recreation Allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or Document of commercial backcountry recreation allocation or management For any area within the muskwa-kechika management area, must be Consistent with any recreation management plan which includes the Subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.
4.1.4 park management Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry Or agent of the crown, of an allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or Any other instrument or document affecting park management, must be Consistent with any park management plan which includes the subject area Of the instrument or document of allocation or management.
4.1.5 wildlife management Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry Or agent of the crown, of an allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or Any other instrument or document affecting wildlife management Allocation or management, must be consistent with any wildlife Management plan which includes the subject area of the instrument or Document of allocation or management.
4.2 — approval of forest development plans Except as specified in section 6.2, prior to the approval of a forest Development plan (as defined in the Forest practices code of british columbia act ), the designated forest official must obtain the agreement of the Designated environment official regarding any contents of the forest Development plan which relate directly to the construction, Modification, and deactivation of roads.
4.3 — approval of special-use permits The issuance of a special-use permit (as defined by the Forest practices code of british columbia act ), for the purpose of providing road access and other infrastructure Outside of mineral claim areas to support mineral exploration or Development requires approval of the designated forest official, the Designated environment official and the designated employment and Investment official.
5.0 — monitoring and amendment 5.1 — annual monitoring report By november 1, 1998, and annually thereafter, the advisory board in Partnership with the inter-agency management committee, will prepare a Monitoring report.
The report will assess the degree to which the objectives outlined in The management plan are being met through management activities, local Strategic planning and development plans and permits.
The report will include all proposed updates and amendments to the Management plan or any other recommendations made by the advisory board.
5.2 — amendment All proposed amendments to the muskwa-kechika management plan will be Included in the annual monitoring report.
5.2.1 interim amendments Issues to be addressed through plan amendment may be identified by any Person, group or agency. issues which, in the opinion of the Inter-agency management committee in consultation with the advisory Board, require an amendment to the plan and which materially affect the Interest or delivery of objectives of the plan to the extent that they Must be addressed sooner than the scheduled major plan review, will be Addressed through an interim amendment to the plan. when issues arise That require an interim amendment, the inter-agency management committee In consultation with the advisory board will establish the schedule and Terms of reference for the amendment process, consistent with existing Legislation and regulations.
The inter-agency management committee and the advisory board may make a Recommendation to the environment and land use committee on the proposed Amendment, taking into consideration the outcome of public consultation.
Final decisions on amendments shall only be made by the environment and Land use committee. amendments will only be approved if the environment And land use committee is satisfied that requirements for public notice And consultation of section 5.3 have been met.
5.2.2 scheduled amendments — plan review A major plan review will be undertaken for the entire management plan in November 2005, or at any earlier time as directed by the Environment and land use committee. the inter-agency management Committee in consultation with the advisory board will establish the Terms of reference for the review process, consistent with existing Legislation and regulations. the public and all other interested Parties, agencies and organizations will be involved in the review.
Approval of any proposed amendments resulting from the review will be Given by the environment and land use committee in accordance with the Requirements for public notice and consultation of section 5.3.
5.3 — consultation and notice requirements Sections 5.3.1 and 5.3.2 do not apply to any action taken under or Pursuant to the Park act In respect of the denetiah, liard river corridor, northern rocky Mountains, graham-laurier and redfern-keily creek resource management Zones; the horneline creek, prophet river hot springs and toad river hot Springs protected areas; or the wokkpash recreation area.
5.3.1 consultation Before establishing, varying or canceling a resource management zone or Objective, or other significant requirement of the management plan, the Environment and land use committee must publish in the gazette and in a Newspaper a notice stating (a) that a resource management zone or objective or requirement of the Plan is proposed to be established, varied or canceled, (b) the location of the resource management zone, (i) that is proposed to be established, varied or canceled, or (ii) to which the objective proposed to be established, varied or Canceled relates, or (c) that the following are available at regional and district offices of The ministry of environment, lands and parks, ministry of forests and Ministry of employment and investment:
(i) a copy of the proposed order establishing, varying or canceling the Resource management zone, objective or requirement of the plan; (ii) in the case of a resource management zone, a copy of the proposed Objectives for the zone; (iii) in the case of a requirement of the plan, a copy of the proposed Alteration to the plan; (iv) a map showing the location and boundaries of the resource Management zone (a) that is proposed to be established, varied or canceled, or (b) to which the objective proposed to be established, varied or Canceled relates, and (d) that comments on the proposal may be delivered to the regional or District office of any of the ministry of environment, lands and parks, Ministry of forests or ministry of employment and investment within 60 days of the date of the last publication of the notice in the Gazette or newspaper.
5.3.2 notice After establishing, varying or canceling a resource management zone or Objective, or other significant requirement of the management plan, the Environment and land use committee must publish in the gazette and in a Newspaper a notice stating (a) that a resource management zone or objective or requirement of the Plan has been established, varied or canceled, (b) the location of the resource management zone, (i) that has been established, varied or canceled, or (ii) to which the objective that has been established, varied or Canceled relates, or (iii) to which the requirement of the plan that has been established, Varied or canceled relates, (c) that the following are available at regional and district offices of The ministry of environment, lands and parks, ministry of forests and Ministry of employment and investment:
(i) a copy of the order establishing, varying or canceling the resource Management zone, objective or requirement of the plan; (ii) in the case of a resource management zone, a copy of the objectives For the zone; (iii) in the case of a requirement of the plan, a copy of the alteration To the plan; (iv) a map showing the location and boundaries of the resource Management zone (a) that has been established, varied or canceled, and (b) to which the objective established, varied or canceled relates.
6.0 — transition provisions 6.1 — grandparenting of existing plans and permits All existing approvals, issuances, permits and authorizations of plans, Allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences and all other instruments And documents of allocation and management that were approved prior to The coming into force of the management plan are exempt from the Requirements and objectives of the management plan.
This does not prevent by mutual agreement the holder of such an Instrument or document, or an agency primarily responsible for a local Strategic plan, amending the instrument or plan to be consistent with The requirements and objectives of the management plan.
6.2 — transition approval of forest development plans Where a forest development plan or amendment proposes cutblocks or road Construction, and the forest development plan or amendment has been Approved or submitted for approval at the time that the management plan Comes into effect, any forest harvesting or road construction that Occurs in the approximate location of that shown in the forest Development plan or amendment are exempt from the requirements of the Management plan, provided the designated forest official is satisfied That these activities are consistent with the spirit and intent of the Management plan.
6.3 — renewable or replaceable agreements and permits All existing approvals, issuances, permits and authorizations of plans, Allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences and all other instruments And documents of allocation and management that were approved prior to The coming into force of the management plan which may be renewed or Replaced, must upon renewal or replacement be consistent with the Objectives of the management plan and any local strategic plan as Specified by the management plan despite any wording in the agreement or Permit to the contrary.
6.4 — consistency with amendments Notwithstanding section 6.2, any existing approvals, issuances, permits Or authorizations of plans, allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences Or any other instrument or document of allocation or management that are Approved prior to any amendment of the management plan are not required To be consistent with the amendment.
7.0 — general management direction 7.1 — general management direction for the muskwa-kechika management Area
The management intent for the muskwa-kechika management area is to Ensure wilderness characteristics, wildlife and its habitat are Maintained over time while allowing resource development and use, Including recreation, hunting, timber harvesting, mineral exploration And mining, oil and gas exploration and development. the integration of Management activities especially related to the planning, development And management of road accesses within the muskwa-kechika management Area is central to achieving this intent. the long-term objective is to Return lands to their natural state, as much as possible, as development Activities are completed.
7.2 — fort nelson lrmp general management direction The general management intent described in sections 2.0, 2.1, 2.1.1 To 2.1.18 (pages 11 to 33) of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, june 1997 (schedule 4 of the muskwa-kechika management order) provide direction to The management of the eight mile/sulphur, aeroplane lake, churchill, Fishing, moodie, muskwa west, prophet, rabbit, rainbow, sandpile, stone Mountain, terminal, kechika river corridor, muskwa river corridor, toad River corridor, northern rocky mountains, turnagain/dall rivers Corridor, denetiah, liard river corridor and alaska highway corridor Resource management zones; horneline creek, toad river hot springs and Prophet river hot springs protected areas; the tetsa river, liard river Hot springs, muncho lake and stone mountain provincial parks; and the Wokkpash recreation area.
7.3 — fort st. john lrmp general management direction The general management intent described in sections 2.0, 2.1 to 2.1.17 (pages 11 to 24) of the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, april 1997 (schedule 5 of the muskwa-kechika management order), provides Direction to the management of the besa-halfway-chowade, graham-north, Graham-laurier and redfern-keily creek resource management zones; and The sikanni chief river ecological reserve.
8.0 — special resource management zones Category direction and area-specific objectives and strategies for fort Nelson lrmp special resource management zones are described in the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (schedule 4 of the muskwa-kechika management order).
8.1 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp special resource Management zones The category direction for management described in section 2.2.4 (pages 79 to 82) of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, june 1997 Provides direction to the management of the eight mile/sulphur, Aeroplane lake, churchill, fishing, moodie, muskwa west, prophet, Rabbit, rainbow, sandpile, stone mountain, terminal, kechika river Corridor, muskwa river corridor, toad river corridor, and turnagain/dall Rivers corridor resource management zones.
8.2 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort nelson lrmp Special resource management zones 8.2.1 eight mile/sulphur The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.1 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 83 to 84) provide direction to the management of the eight Mile/sulphur resource management zone.
8.2.2 aeroplane lake The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.2 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 85 to 86) provide direction to the management of the Aeroplane lake resource management zone.
8.2.3 churchill The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.3 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 87 to 89) provide direction to the management of the Churchill resource management zone.
8.2.4 fishing The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.4 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 89 to 90) provide direction to the management of the Fishing resource management zone.
8.2.5 moodie The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.5 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 91 to 92) provide direction to the management of the Moodie resource management zone.
8.2.6 muskwa west The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.6 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 93 to 95) provide direction to the management of the Muskwa west resource management zone.
8.2.7 prophet The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.7 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 96 to 98) provide direction to the management of the Prophet resource management zone.
8.2.8 rabbit The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.8 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 99 to 100) provide direction to the management of the rabbit Resource management zone.
8.2.9 rainbow The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.9 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 101 to 102) provide direction to the management of the Rainbow resource management zone.
8.2.10 sandpile The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.10 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, june 1997 , (pages 103 to 104) provide direction to the management of the Sandpile resource management zone.
8.2.11 stone mountain The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.11 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 107 to 108) provide direction to the management of the Stone mountain resource management zone.
8.2.12 terminal The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.12 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 107 to 108) provide direction to the management of the Terminal resource management zone.
8.2.13 kechika river corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.13 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 109 to 111) provide direction to the management of the Kechika river corridor resource management zone.
8.2.14 muskwa river corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.13 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 112 to 114) provide direction to the management of the Muskwa river corridor resource management zone.
8.2.15 toad river corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.15 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 115 to 117) provide direction to the management of the Toad river corridor resource management zone.
8.2.16 turnagain/dall rivers corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.16 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 118 to 119) provide direction to the management of the Turnagain/dall rivers corridor resource management zone.
8.3 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort st. john lrmp Special resource management zones Area-specific objectives and strategies for fort st. john lrmp special Resource management zones are described in the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, april 1997 , (schedule 5 of the muskwa-kechika management order).
8.3.1 besa-halfway-chowade The objectives and strategies of section 3.2 of the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, April 1997
, (pages 44 to 49) provide direction to the management of Besa-halfway-chowade resource management zone.
8.3.2 graham-north The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.1 of the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, April 1997
, (pages 93 to 98) provide direction to the management of the Graham-north resource management zone.
9.0 — enhanced resource development zones 9.1 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp enhanced resource Management zones The category direction for management described in section 2.2.2 of The
Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (page 36) provides direction to the management of the alaska Highway corridor resource management zone.
9.2 — area-specific objectives and strategies for fort nelson lrmp Enhanced resource management zones 9.2.1 alaska highway corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.2.1 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 37 to 38) provide direction to the management of the Alaska highway corridor resource management zone.
10.0 — protection resource management zones 10.1 — management direction for provincial parks, recreation areas and Ecological reserves Objectives for the management of provincial parks, recreation areas and Ecological reserves are described in plans and statements of Schedule 6 of the muskwa-kechika management order, and as specified Below, and are deposited at bc parks peace liard district, fort st.
John, b.c. and bc parks headquarters, victoria, b.c.
10.1.1 sikanni chief river ecological reserve Objectives for management of sikanni chief river ecological reserve are Described in the sikanni chief river ecological reserve statement of Purpose and values, march 1993.
10.1.2 tetsa river provincial park Objectives for management of tetsa provincial park are described in the Annual park management plan for the tetsa provincial park, approved January 10, 1995.
10.1.3 liard river hot springs provincial park Objectives for management of liard river hot springs provincial park are Described in the liard river hot springs provincial park master plan, Approved october 28, 1990.
10.1.4 stone mountain provincial park Objectives for management of stone mountain provincial park are Described in the stone mountain provincial park master plan, approved August 15, 1985.
10.1.5 muncho lake provincial park Objectives for management of muncho lake provincial park are described In the muncho lake provincial park master plan, approved april 21, 1985.
10.1.6 wokkpash recreation area Objectives for management of wokkpash recreation area are described in The wokkpash recreation area interim management statement, January 1991.
10.2 — category direction for fort nelson lrmp protection resource Management zones The category direction for management described in section 2.2.5 (pages 120-122) of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (schedule 4 of the muskwa-kechika management order) provides Direction to the management of the denetiah, northern rocky mountains And liard river corridor resource management zones; and the horneline Creek, toad river hot springs and prophet river hot springs protected Areas.
10.3 — area-specific objectives and strategies for the fort nelson Lrmp protection resource management zones Area-specific objectives and strategies for fort nelson lrmp special Resource management zones are described in the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (schedule 4 of the muskwa-kechika management order).
10.3.1 denetiah (including access corridor and dall river old growth Site)
The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.1 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 123 to 124) provide direction to the management of the Denetiah resource management zone which includes the dall river old Growth site and the access corridor.
10.3.2 liard river corridor The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.3 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 126 to 127) provide direction to the management of the Liard river corridor resource management zone.
10.3.3 northern rocky mountains The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.5 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (pages 129 to 131) provide direction to the management of the Northern rocky mountains resource management zone.
10.3.4 horneline creek protected area Section 2.2.5.8 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (page 136) provides direction to the management of the horneline Creek protected area.
10.3.5 prophet river hot springs protected area Section 2.2.5.8 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (page 137) provides direction to the management of the prophet River hot springs protected area.
10.3.6 toad river hot springs protected area Section 2.2.5.8 of the Recommended fort nelson land and resource management plan, June 1997
, (page 137) provides direction to the management of the toad river Hot springs protected area.
10.4 — area-specific objectives and strategies for the fort st. john Lrmp protection resource management zones Area-specific objectives and strategies for fort st. john lrmp Protection resource management zones are described in the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, April 1997
, (schedule 5 of the muskwa-kechika management order).
10.4.1 graham-laurier The objectives and strategies of section 4.2.2 of the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, April 1997
, (pages 155 to 157) provide direction to the management of the Graham-laurier resource management zone.
10.4.2 redfern-keily creek The objectives and strategies of section 4.2.2 of the Recommended fort st. john land and resource management plan, April 1997
, (pages 159 to 161) provide direction to the management of the Redfern-keily creek resource management zone.
[provisions of the Muskwa-kechika management area act , s.b.c. 1998, c. 38, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Sections 17 and 19 (2)]