B.c. reg. 282/2008 M242/2008
Deposited october 15, 2008 Effective october 17, 2008 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2024 For amendments effective after march 5, 2024.
Health professions act Naturopathic physicians regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 156/2009, april 9, 2009] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "compound" Means
(a) In respect of a drug, to mix with one or more other ingredients, and (b) In respect of a therapeutic diet, to mix two or more ingredients; "dispense" Has the same meaning as in the Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act , but excludes a sale, as defined in that act; "drug" Means, except in the definition of "substance", a drug (a) Specified in schedule i of the drug schedules regulation, b.c. reg.
9/98, other than a drug set out in the schedule of this regulation, or (b) Specified in schedule ii of the drug schedules regulation; "enteral instillation" Means instillation directly into the gastrointestinal tract; "minor surgery" Means a surgical procedure that (a) Is performed, for a diagnostic or therapeutic purpose, on a Superficial anatomical structure, and (b) Does not involve (i) Sedation, general anaesthesia or respiratory assistance, or (ii) A material risk to life; "naturopathic medicine" Means the health profession in which a person provides the services of Prevention, assessment and treatment of an individual's diseases, Disorders and conditions using education and naturopathic techniques, Therapies or therapeutics to stimulate or support healing processes And promote, maintain or restore the overall health of the individual; "parenteral instillation" Means instillation directly into the blood stream; "prescribe" Means to issue a prescription, as defined in the Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act ; "substance" Includes air and water, but excludes a drug specified in schedule i, Ia, ii or iv of the drug schedules regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 156/2009, s. 1.] College name 2 The name "college of naturopathic physicians of british columbia" is The name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the act For naturopathic medicine.
Reserved titles 3 (1) The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:
(a) Naturopath;
(b) Naturopathic physician; (c) Naturopathic doctor; (d) Physician;
(e) Doctor.
(2) This section does not prevent a person from using (a) The title "physician" or "doctor" in a manner authorized by another Enactment that regulates a health profession, or (b) An academic or educational designation that the person is entitled to Use.
Scope of practice 4 A registrant may practise naturopathic medicine.
Restricted activities 5 (1) A registrant in the course of practising naturopathic medicine may do Any of the following:
(a) Use naturopathic techniques to make a diagnosis identifying, as the Cause of signs or symptoms of an individual, a disease, disorder or Condition;
(b) Perform a procedure on tissue (i) Below the dermis, or (ii) Below the surface of a mucous membrane; (c) Move a joint of the spine beyond the limits the body can voluntarily Achieve but within the anatomical range of motion using a high Velocity, low amplitude thrust; (d) Administer a substance (i) By injection, (ii) By inhalation, (iii) By irrigation, (iv) By enteral instillation or parenteral instillation, or (v) Using a hyperbaric chamber; (e) Put an instrument or a device or finger (i) Into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, (ii) Beyond the point in the nasal passages where they normally narrow, (iii) Beyond the opening of the urethra, (iv) Beyond the labia majora, (v) Beyond the anal verge, or (vi) Into an artificial opening into the body; (f) Put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, a substance that Is under pressure; (g) Apply
(i) Ultrasound for diagnostic or imaging purposes, including any Application of ultrasound to a fetus, (ii) Electricity for the purposes of (a) Destroying tissue in the course of minor surgery, or (b) Defibrillation in the course of emergency cardiac care, or (iii) X-rays for diagnostic or imaging purposes, excluding x-rays for the Purpose of computerized axial tomography; (h) Issue an instruction or authorization for another person to perform, In respect of a named individual, a restricted activity specified in Paragraph (g) (i) or (iii); (i) In respect of a drug, (i) Prescribe the drug, (ii) Compound the drug, (iii) Dispense the drug, or (iv) Administer the drug by any method; (j) If nutrition is administered by enteral instillation or parenteral Instillation,
(i) Select ingredients for a therapeutic diet, (ii) Compound a therapeutic diet, or (iii) Dispense a therapeutic diet; (k) Conduct challenge testing for allergies (i) That involves injection, scratch tests or inhalation, if the Individual being tested has not had a previous anaphylactic reaction, Or
(ii) By any method, if the individual being tested has had a previous Anaphylactic reaction; (l) Conduct desensitizing treatment for allergies (i) That involves injection, scratch tests or inhalation, if the Individual being tested has not had a previous anaphylactic reaction, Or
(ii) By any method, if the individual being tested has had a previous Anaphylactic reaction.
(2) Only a registrant may practise naturopathic medicine.
[en. b.c. reg. 156/2009, s. 2.] Limits or conditions on services and restricted activities 6 (1) A registrant may perform only surgery that is minor surgery.
(2) A registrant may prescribe, compound, dispense or administer a drug Only if (a) Standards, limits and conditions have been established, under section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the act, respecting the prescribing, compounding, Dispensing and administering of drugs by registrants, (b) The standards, limits and conditions described in paragraph (a) are Established on the recommendation of a committee that (i) Is established under section 19 (1) (t) of the act, and (ii) Has the duty and power to develop, review and recommend those Standards, limits and conditions, and (c) The registrant has successfully completed a certification program Established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure that Registrants are qualified and competent to prescribe, compound, Dispense or administer a drug.
(3) A registrant may perform an activity described in section 5 (1) (d) (v), (k) or (l) only if (a) Standards, limits and conditions have been established, under section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the act, respecting the activity, and (b) The standards, limits and conditions described in paragraph (a) are Established on the recommendation of a committee that (i) Is established under section 19 (1) (t) of the act, and (ii) Has the duty and power to develop, review and recommend those Standards, limits and conditions.
[en. b.c. reg. 156/2009, s. 3.] Patient relations program 7 The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of The act.
Health profession corporations 8 Part 4 of the act applies to naturopathic medicine.
Schedule
[en. b.c. reg. 156/2009, s. 4.] Excluded schedule i drugs Acetohexamide
Chlorisondamine and its salts Adalimumab
Choriogonadotripin alfa Adefovir
Cinacalcet and its salts Agalsidase alfa Cisplatin
Aldesleukin
Cladribine and its salts Alemtuzumab
Clobazam and its salts Alfentanil
Clonazepam and its salts Alkyl nitrites Clorazepic acid and its salts Alprazolam
Codeine when prescribed as a single entity or Altretamine
When included in a preparation containing Amifostine and its salts 60 mg or more per dosage unit Aminoglutethimide
Cyclophosphamide
Aminopterin and its salts Cycloserine
Aminopyrine and its derivatives Cyclosporine
Amprenavir and its salts and derivatives Cytarabine and its salts Amsacrine and its salts Dacarbazine
Anagrelide and it salts Daclizumab
Anakinra and its salts and derivatives Dactinomycin
Anastrozole
Daunorubicin and its salts Ancestim
Delavirdine and its salts Anileridine
Desflurane
Anti-thymocyte globulin Dexrazoxane and its salts Atazanavir and its salts Diazepam and its salts Atracurium besilate Didanosine and its salts and derivatives Auranofin
Diethylstilbestrol and its derivatives Aurothioglucose
Dihydrotachysterol
Basiliximab
Dinoprostone and its salts and derivatives Bevacizumab
Docetaxel and its derivatives Bicalutamide
Doxacurium chloride Bleomycin
Doxercalciferol and its derivatives Bortezomib
Doxorubicin and its salts Bromazepam and its salts Droperidol and its salts Buprenorphine
Edrophonium chloride Buserelin and its salts Efavirenz
Busulfan
Emtricitabine
Butalbital
Enflurane
Butorphanol
Enfuvirtide
Cabergoline and its salts Epirubicine and its salts Capecitabine and its salts and derivatives Erythropoietin
Carboplatin
Estazolam and its salts Carmustine
Estramustine and its salts Cetrorelix and its salts Etanercept
Cetuximab
Ethambutol and its salts Chlorambucil and its salts and derivatives Ethchlorvynol
Chlordiazepoxide and its salts Ethionamide and its salts Ethoheptazine and its salts Leuprolide and its salts Etoposide and its derivatives Levallorphane and its salts Exemestane
Levamisole and its salts Fenfluramine and its salts Levorphanol
Fentanyl
Lincomycin and its salts and derivatives Filgrastim
Linezolid and its salts Flucytosine
Lomefloxacin and its salts Fludarabine and its salts and derivatives Lomustine
Flumazenil
Lopinavir
Fluorouracil and its derivatives for parenteral Loracarbef and its salts and derivatives Use only Lorazepam and its salts Flurazepam and its salts Mazindol and its salts Flutamide
Mecamylamine and its salts Follicle stimulating hormone Mechlorethamine and its salts Formestane and its salts and derivatives Melanoma therapeutic vaccine Fulvestrant
Melphalan
Gallamine triethiodide Menotropins (human) Ganirelix and its salts and derivatives Meperidine (pethidine) Gefitinib
Mercaptopurine
Gemcitabine and its salts Meropenem and its salts and derivatives Glatiramer and its salts Mesna
Gold and its salts Metaraminol bitartrate Goserelin and its salts Methadone
Halazepam and its salt Methaqualone
Halofantrine and its salts Midazolam and its salts Halothane
Midodrine and its salts Hydrocodone (dihydrocodeinone) Miglustat
Hydromorphone (dihydromorphone) Mitomycin and its salts Hydroxychloroquine and its salts Mitotane (o,p'-ddd) Idarubicin and its salts Mitoxantrone and its salts Ifosfamide
Mivacurium chloride Imatinib and its salts Molgramostim
Imiglucerase
Morphine
Indinavir and its salts Muromonab-cd3 Infliximab
Mycophenolic acid and its salts and derivatives Interferon
Nalmefene and its salts Iproniazid and its salts Nelfinavir and its salts Irinotecan and its salts Neostigmine salts Isoflurane
Netilmicin and its salts and derivatives Ivermectin and its derivatives Nevirapine and its salts Kanamycin and its salts and derivatives Nikethamide
Ketamine and its salts Nilutamide
Ketazolam and its salts Nitrazepam and its salts Lamivudine and its salts Normethadone
Laronidase
Octreotide
L-asparaginase Oxazepam and its salts Leflunomide and its salts Oxycodone
Letrozole
Paclitaxel and its derivatives Palivizumab
Streptozocin
Pamidronic acid and its salts Succinylcholine and its salts Pancuronium and its salts Sufentanil
Pegfilgrastim
Suxamethonium chloride Pemetrexed and its salts Tacrolimus and its derivatives Pentamidine and its salts Tegafur and its salts Pentazocine
Temazepam and its salts Pentolinium tartrate Temozolomide and its salts Pentostatin and its salts Teniposide
Perflutren
Tenofovir and its salts and derivatives Phentolamine and its salts Thalidomide
Pipobroman
Thiocarlide
Porfimer and its salts Thioguanine
Pralidoxime and its salts Thiotepa
Prazepam and its salts Tiludronic acid and its salts Prodilidine and its salts Tipranavir and its salts Propofol
Topotecan and its salts Propoxyphene
Toremifene and its salts Pyrazinamide
Trastuzumab
Pyridostigmine bromide Treosulfan
Raltitrexed and its salts and derivatives Treprostinil and its salts Rasburicase
Tretamine
Rifabutin and its salts Triazolam and its salts Riluzole and its salts Trimethaphan camsylate Ritonavir
Trimetrexate and its salts Rituximab
Troglitazone
Rocuronium bromide Tubocurarine and its salts Rofecoxib
Valrubicin and its derivatives Saquinavir and its salts and derivatives Vecuronium bromide Sargramostin
Viomycin and its salts and derivatives Sevelamer hydrochloride Zalcitabine and its salts Sirolimus and its derivatives Zidovudine
Sodium aurothiomalate Zoledronic acid and its salts and derivatives Stavudine
[provisions of the Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Section 12 (2)]