B.c. reg. 25/2020 Chief electoral officer Deposited february 19, 2020 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Election act Nomination contest regulation Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Election act .
Additional information to be included in notice to chief electoral Officer
2 For the purposes of section 59.01 (1) (e) of the act, a registered Political party must include in a notice to the chief electoral Officer the name of the electoral district for which the nomination Contest was held.
Additional information to be included in nomination contestant Financing report 3 For the purposes of section 211.01 (2) (h) of the act, a nomination Contestant financing report must include the following information:
(a) The name of the political party the nomination contestant sought to Represent;
(b) The name of the electoral district for which the nomination contest Was held; (c) The dates on which the nomination contest started and ended; (d) For each fundraising function held by or on behalf of the nomination Contestant, details about income not reported as contributions, Including the number of tickets sold and the charge per ticket; (e) Details about income received by the nomination contestant; (f) The balance, as of the date the report is filed with the chief Electoral officer, in the account referred to in section 177 (2) (b) of the act for the nomination contestant.
Classes of contestant expenses 4 For the purposes of section 211.01 (3) of the act, the contestant Expenses incurred by or on behalf of a nomination contestant must be Reported according to the following classes:
(a) Accounting and audit services; (b) The following classes of advertising:
(i) Commercial canvassing in person, by telephone or by mobile device; (ii) Newspapers and periodicals; (iii) Promotional materials, including newsletters, brochures, buttons and Novelty items; (iv) Radio;
(v) Search engine marketing and optimization; (vi) Signs;
(vii) Social media; (viii) Television;
(ix) Website displays; (x) Other forms of advertising; (c) Bank charges; (d) Conventions, workshops and meetings; (e) Donations and gifts; (f) Fundraising functions; (g) Furniture and equipment; (h) Interest expense; (i) Net losses arising from fundraising functions; (j) Nomination contestant fee; (k) Office rent, utilities, insurance and maintenance; (l) Office supplies and stationery; (m) Personal contestant expenses incurred during the campaign period; (n) Personal contestant expenses incurred outside the campaign period; (o) Personal contestant expenses paid by the nomination contestant; (p) Personal contestant expenses paid or reimbursed from the account Referred to in section 177 (2) (b) of the act for the nomination Contestant;
(q) Postage and courier; (r) Professional services; (s) Research and data, including election surveys and polls; (t) Salaries and benefits; (u) Social functions; (v) Subscriptions and dues; (w) Telecommunications and information technology; (x) Transfers, referred to in section 180 (6) of the act, made by the Nomination contestant; (y) Travel;
(z) Other contestant expenses.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Election act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 106, s. 283.]