B.c. reg. 227/2015 M406/2015
Deposited december 3, 2015 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Health professions act Nurses (registered psychiatric) regulation [last amended april 6, 2023 by b.c. reg. 100/2023] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "certified practice registrant" Has the same meaning as in the nurses (registered) and nurse Practitioners regulation; "compound" Means,
(a) In section 6 (o), to mix 2 or more ingredients, and (b) In any other case, to mix a drug with one or more other ingredients; "dispense" Has the same meaning as in the Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act , (a) Excluding a sale as defined in that act, and (b) Including receipt of payment on behalf of a registrant's employer for A drug dispensed or administered by the registrant, if the Registrant's employer lawfully requires payment for that drug from a Person in respect of the individual for or to whom the drug is Dispensed or administered; "drug schedules regulation" Means the drug schedules regulation, b.c. reg. 9/98; "enteral instillation" Means instillation directly into the gastrointestinal tract; "health professional" Means
(a) A person who is authorized under the act to practise the designated Health profession of dentistry, medicine, midwifery, naturopathic Medicine, podiatric medicine or the practice of pharmacy, (b) A certified practice registrant or nurse practitioner, or (c) A person who, in alberta, yukon or the northwest territories, is the Equivalent of a person described in paragraph (a) or (b), but only if (i) The person has issued an order in respect of a patient who has been Assessed by the person, (ii) The patient has transferred from one of the other jurisdictions to British columbia, (iii) The patient, on transfer, requires immediate health services or Treatment, and (iv) The patient has not been assessed by the equivalent person described In paragraph (a) or (b); "issue" Means to issue by any method; "nursing diagnosis" Means a clinical judgment made by a registrant of an individual's Mental or physical condition to determine whether the condition can be Ameliorated or resolved by appropriate interventions of the registrant To achieve outcomes for which the registrant is accountable; "order" Means an instruction or authorization, issued by a health Professional, for a registrant to provide a service that includes the Performance of an activity described in section 7 (1) to or for a Named individual whom the health professional has assessed, whether or Not the instruction or authorization (a) Makes provision for the time or times at which the service is to be Initiated by a registrant, or (b) Incorporates by reference, in whole or in part and with any changes The health professional considers necessary or appropriate, a Guideline, protocol or other recorded description of a course of Action or decision-making process to be used by a registrant in Providing the service to or for a specified class of individuals; "parenteral instillation" Means instillation directly into the blood stream; "prescribe" Means to issue a prescription as defined in the Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act , except a prescription issued in respect of an animal; "psychiatric nursing" Means the health profession in which a person provides the following Services:
(a) Health care for the promotion, maintenance and restoration of health, With a focus on psychosocial, mental or emotional health; (b) Prevention, treatment and palliation of illness and injury, with a Focus on psychosocial, mental or emotional disorders and conditions And associated or comorbid physiological conditions, primarily by (i) Assessing health status, (ii) Planning, implementing and evaluating interventions, and (iii) Coordinating health services; "registrant" Means a registrant who is authorized under the bylaws to practise Psychiatric nursing; "substance" Includes air and water but excludes a drug specified in schedule i, Ia, ii or iv of the drug schedules regulation; "wearable hearing instrument" Has the same meaning as in the speech and hearing health professionals Regulation, b.c. reg. 413/2008.
[am. b.c. regs. 93/2018, sch. 3, s. 1; 100/2023, sch. 3, s. 1.] College name 2 The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of The act in respect of psychiatric nursing is "british columbia college Of nurses and midwives".
[en. b.c. reg. 93/2018, sch. 3, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 167/2020, sch. 4, S. 1.]
Reserved titles 3 (1) The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:
(a) Nurse;
(b) Registered psychiatric nurse; (c) Psychiatric nurse.
(2) This section does not prevent a person from using the title "nurse" in A manner authorized by another regulation under section 12 of the act.
Scope of practice 4 A registrant may practise psychiatric nursing.
Patient relations program 5 The college is designated for the purpose of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.
Provisional registrant classes 5.1 The college is authorized to establish, under section 19 (1) (i) of The act, a class of provisional registrants for the purposes of Section 20 (4.3) of the act.
[en. b.c. reg. 93/2018, sch. 3, s. 3.] Restricted activities that do not require an order 6 A registrant in the course of practising psychiatric nursing may do Any of the following:
(a) Make a nursing diagnosis identifying a condition as the cause of the Signs or symptoms of an individual; (b) For the purpose of wound care other than the suturing of skin Lacerations, perform a procedure on tissue below the dermis or below The surface of a mucous membrane; (c) For the purpose of collecting a blood sample, perform venipuncture; (d) For the purpose of establishing intravenous access, maintaining Patency or managing hypovolemia, (i) Perform venipuncture, or (ii) Administer a solution by parenteral instillation; (e) Administer
(i) Oxygen or humidified air, by inhalation, (ii) Nutrition by enteral instillation, or (iii) Purified protein derivative by injection, for the purpose of Tuberculosis screening; (f) For the purpose of assessment or ameliorating or resolving a condition Identified through the making of a nursing diagnosis, administer a Solution
(i) By irrigation, or (ii) By enteral instillation; (g) For the purpose of assessment or ameliorating or resolving a condition Identified through the making of a nursing diagnosis, put an Instrument or a device, hand or finger (i) Into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, (ii) Beyond the point in the nasal passages where they normally narrow, (iii) Beyond the pharynx, (iv) Beyond the opening of the urethra, (v) Beyond the labia majora, (vi) Beyond the anal verge, or (vii) Into an artificial opening into the body; (h) Put a wearable hearing instrument, or a part of or accessory for it, Into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum; (i) For the purpose of assessment or ameliorating or resolving a condition Identified through the making of a nursing diagnosis, put into the External ear canal, up to the eardrum, (i) Air that is under pressure no greater than the pressure created by the Use of an otoscope, or (ii) Water that is under pressure no greater than the pressure created by The use of an ear bulb syringe; (j) Apply ultrasound for the purpose of bladder volume measurement or Blood flow monitoring; (k) Apply electricity using an automatic external defibrillator for the Purpose of defibrillation in the course of emergency cardiac care; (l) Apply electricity for the purpose of providing transcutaneous Electrical nerve stimulation; (m) For the purpose of tuberculosis screening, issue an instruction or Authorization for another person to apply x-rays to a named Individual, other than x-rays for the purpose of computerized axial Tomography;
(n) In respect of a drug specified in schedule i of the drug schedules Regulation,
(i) Prescribe the drug, (ii) Compound the drug, (iii) Dispense the drug, or (iv) Administer the drug by any method For the purpose of (v) Treating
(a) Anaphylaxis,
(b) Opiate overdose, (c) Respiratory distress in a known asthmatic, (d) Hypoglycemia, or (e) Conditions that are symptomatic of influenza-like illness, or (vi) Preventing disease using immunoprophylactic agents and post-exposure Chemoprophylactic agents; (o) In respect of a drug specified in schedule ii of the drug schedules Regulation,
(i) Prescribe the drug, (ii) Compound the drug, (iii) Dispense the drug, or (iv) Administer the drug by any method; (p) If nutrition is administered by enteral instillation, compound or Dispense a therapeutic diet.
Restricted activities that require an order 7 (1) A registrant in the course of practising psychiatric nursing may do Any of the following:
(a) Perform a procedure on tissue below the dermis or below the surface of A mucous membrane; (b) Administer a substance by (i) Injection,
(ii) Inhalation,
(iii) Mechanical ventilation, (iv) Irrigation, or (v) Enteral instillation or parenteral instillation; (c) Put an instrument or a device, hand or finger (i) Into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, (ii) Beyond the point in the nasal passages where they normally narrow, (iii) Beyond the pharynx, (iv) Beyond the opening of the urethra, (v) Beyond the labia majora, (vi) Beyond the anal verge, or (vii) Into an artificial opening into the body; (d) Put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, a substance that Is under pressure; (e) Apply electricity for the purpose of affecting activity of the nervous System;
(f) In respect of a drug specified in schedule i or ia of the drug Schedules regulation, (i) Compound the drug, (ii) Dispense the drug, or (iii) Administer the drug by any method.
(2) A registrant may provide a service that includes the performance of an Activity described in subsection (1) only as follows:
(a) To the extent the activity is one described in section 6, without an Order as described in paragraph (b) of this subsection; (b) To the extent the activity is not one described in section 6, if the Registrant provides the service for the purpose of implementing an Order and, at the time that the registrant provides the service, (i) The health professional who issues the order is authorized, under the Act or by the body in alberta, yukon or the northwest territories that Regulates the health profession of that health professional, to (a) Provide the service without an order or equivalent instruction or Authorization, or (b) Issue an order or equivalent instruction or authorization for the Service to be provided, and (ii) The registrant is authorized under the act to provide the service.
[am. b.c. reg. 100/2023, sch. 3, s. 2.] Restricted activities for certified practice registrants — treatment Of opioid use disorder 7.1 (1) A registrant in the course of practising psychiatric nursing may do Any of the following:
(a) Diagnose opioid use disorder as the cause of the signs or symptoms of An individual; (b) In respect of a drug specified in schedule i or ia of the Drug schedules regulation and for the purpose of treating opioid use Disorder,
(i) Prescribe the drug, (ii) Compound the drug, (iii) Dispense the drug, or (iv) Administer the drug by any method.
(2) A registrant may provide a service that includes the performance of an Activity described in subsection (1) only as follows:
(a) If the registrant provides the service for the purpose of implementing An order and, at the time that the registrant provides the service, The requirements described in section 7 (2) (b) are Met;
(b) If paragraph (a) does not apply, all of the following conditions Are met:
(i) Before providing the service, the registrant has successfully Completed a certification program established, required or approved Under the bylaws to ensure that registrants are qualified and Competent to provide that service in the practice setting in which it Is to be provided by the registrant; (ii) Standards, limits or conditions have been established, under Section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the act, respecting The activity; (iii) The service is provided in accordance with the standards, limits and Conditions referred to in subparagraph (ii).
[en. b.c. reg. 100/2023, sch. 3, s. 3.] Restricted activities limited to registrants 8 Only a registrant may provide a service that includes the performance Of an activity set out in section 6, 7 (1) or 7.1 (1).
[en. b.c. reg. 167/2020, sch. 4, s. 2; am. b.c. reg. 100/2023, sch. 3, S. 4.]
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]