B.C. Reg. 17/90
O.C. 124/90
Deposited January 19, 1990
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect
Release Service Regulation
[Last amended May 24, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 122/2022]
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"annual costs"
means the annual operating and debt servicing costs of providing a
sterile insect release service minus any grants or donations received
towards those costs;
"converted value of land and improvements"
means the net taxable value of land and improvements for regional
hospital district purposes multiplied by the percentage set out for
the land and improvements in the Converted Value Percentages
Regulation;
"planted acreage"
means the number of acres of land planted with apple or pear trees.
[am. B.C. Reg. 122/2022, s. 1.]
Cost recovery — parcel tax
2
(1)
The participating regional districts for a sterile insect release
service under section 283 (2) of the
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
may recover a portion of the annual costs of the service by means of a
parcel tax.
(2)
Subject to subsection (3), a parcel tax under subsection (1) may vary
according to
(a)
the area of the parcel, and
(b)
the quantity of apple and pear trees growing on the parcel.
(3)
A variation under subsection (2) shall be the same in all
participating regional districts.
(4)
Sections 484 to 488 of the
Municipal Act
apply to a parcel tax imposed under this section.
Cost recovery — property value tax
3
The portion of the annual costs of a sterile insect release service
that is not recovered by a parcel tax under section 2 shall be
recovered by a property value tax under section 805 of the
Municipal Act
levied on land only.
Apportionment
4
(1)
The annual costs of a sterile insect release service that are
recovered by a parcel tax under section 2 shall be apportioned among
the participating regional districts on the basis of the amount
recovered within each regional district by the parcel tax.
(2)
The annual costs of a sterile insect release service that are
recovered by a property value tax under section 3 shall be apportioned
among the participating regional districts in accordance with the
following formula:
regional district share =
converted value
total converted value
× 75%
+
planted acreage
total planted acreage
× 25%
where
converted value
=
the converted value of land and improvements, in the previous
calendar year, in all areas of the regional district that
participate in the sterile insect release service;
planted acreage
=
the planted acreage, in the previous calendar year, in all areas
of the regional district that participate in the sterile insect
release service;
total converted
value
=
the total of the converted values of land and improvements, in
the previous calendar year, in all of the participating areas of
all of the participating regional districts;
total planted
acreage
=
the total of the planted acreages, in the previous calendar
year, in all of the participating areas of all of the
participating regional districts.
[am. B.C. Reg. 122/2022, s. 2.]
Clearing of insects by property owners
5
Owners and occupiers of real property shall clear their property of
destructive insect pests and shall prevent the infestation of their
property by destructive insect pests.
Entry onto property by board for clearing of insects
6
Where the owner or occupier of real property has failed to comply with
the requirement under section 5 for clearing or preventing
infestation, the Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board may,
by its employees or other persons, enter on real property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner to effect the clearing or
prevention, at the expense of the person who has failed to comply, by
any means considered advisable by the board including the application
of insecticides and other chemicals and the removal and destruction of
plants which are or which are likely to be subject to infestation by
destructive insect pests.
Entry onto property by board for sterile insect release
7
The Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board may, by its
employees or other persons, enter on real property at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner to effect the release of sterile insects.
Authority to enter into funding agreements
8
The Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board may enter into
agreements to obtain funding to operate a sterile insect release
service.
[en. B.C. Reg. 469/95.]
Compliance grants
9
The authority to make expenditures for a sterile insect release
service includes the authority to make grants to property owners and
growers who have complied with the requirements of the service program
specified by the Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 469/95.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 261, s. 283 (8).]
