B.c. reg. 180/90 O.c. 867/90 Deposited june 8, 1990 Effective august 1, 1990 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Park act Park, conservancy and Recreation area regulation [last amended july 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 123/2022] Division 1 — interpretation Interpretation
1 (1) In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
"act" Means the Park act ; "backcountry" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area that is not Frontcountry;
"camp" Means to occupy a campsite, to set up a tent or other shelter or to Remain overnight; "campground" Means one or more campsites managed by an operator or the ministry; "campsite" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area developed by The ministry to accommodate persons who wish to camp; "canada" Does not include a corporation (a) That is, under an enactment of canada, an agent of her majesty in Right of canada, (b) Of which the government of canada owns, directly or indirectly, more Than 50% of the issued voting shares, or (c) That is controlled by the government of canada, and for the purpose of This definition a corporation is controlled by the government of Canada when a majority of the members of the corporation or of its Board of directors or board of management consists of either or both Of the following:
(i) Persons appointed as members by the governor in council, by a minister Of the government of canada or by an enactment of canada; (ii) Public officers acting as such; "cycle" Means a device having any number of wheels that is propelled by human Power and on which a person may ride; "day use area" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area managed by an Operator or the ministry for picnicking and other daytime activities; "designated long-stay campsite" Means a campsite in a park, conservancy or recreation area that has Been designated as a campsite where a person may camp for more than 14 Days in a calendar year; "dock" Means a structure connected to dry land and used for the purposes of Mooring a vessel; "domestic animal" Means a vertebrate that has been domesticated; "firearm" Includes a rifle, shotgun, handgun, spring gun or any device that Propels a projectile by means of an explosion, compressed gas or Spring, but does not include a longbow or crossbow; "frontcountry" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area within one Kilometre of either side of the centreline of a park road or a Highway;
"group" Means 15 or more persons; "guide" Means a person who, for compensation or reward received or promised, Accompanies, assists or provides a service to another person; "hunt" Means to shoot at, attract, search for, chase, pursue, follow after or On the trail of, stalk or lie in wait for wildlife, or to attempt to Do any of those things, whether or not the wildlife is then or Subsequently wounded, killed or captured, (a) With the intention to capture the wildlife, or (b) While in possession of a firearm or other weapon; "litter" Means
(a) Garbage, refuse, rubbish or trash of any kind, including a container, Package, bottle or can, or any part thereof, or (b) Any abandoned or discarded article, product or item of manufacture, But does not include wastes of the primary processes of mining, Logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing; "operator" Means a person authorized by a park use permit or resource use permit To operate facilities in any part of a park, conservancy or recreation Area;
"park" Includes any land, trail, path or waterway comprised in an order under Section 6 (1) (a) to (g) of the act; "park road" Means a road in a park, conservancy or recreation area that is Designed and developed for the passage or parking of motor vehicles Licensed under the Motor vehicle act ; "party" Means up to 8 persons, of whom at least one, but no more than 4, are 16 years old or older, and who may have with them (a) One recreational vehicle, (b) One non-recreational vehicle, or (c) One non-recreational vehicle and one legally towed trailer that is not A trailer primarily designed as temporary living quarters for Recreational or travel use; "province" Does not include a corporation (a) That is, under an act, an agent of the crown, (b) Of which the government owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of The issued voting shares, or (c) That is controlled by the government, and for the purpose of this Definition a corporation is controlled by the government when a Majority of the members of the corporation or of its board of Directors or board of management consists of either or both of the Following:
(i) Persons appointed as members by the lieutenant governor in council, by A minister or by an act; (ii) Public officers acting as such; "recreational vehicle" Means a self-propelled vehicle or a trailer, primarily designed as Temporary living quarters for recreational or travel use; "snowmobile" Means a snowmobile as defined in the snowmobile regulation, b.c. reg.
65/72; "trap" Means to trap, snare, net or use any other device to take or capture Wildlife;
"vessel" Means a boat, canoe, kayak or other craft used, or capable of being Used, for navigation on water; "waste" Means waste as defined in the Environmental management act ; "wildlife" Means raptors, threatened species, endangered species, game or other Species of vertebrates prescribed as wildlife under the Wildlife act ; "youth group" Means a group of 12 or more persons (a) Undertaking a camping trip or day use trip organized for the group by A school, not-for-profit society or recreational centre operated by a Municipality or regional district for the benefit of the members of The group who are 18 years of age or younger, and (b) Supervised by an adult representative of the school, not-for-profit Society or recreational centre.
[am. b.c. regs. 406/90; 196/91; 195/93, s. 1; 249/98, s. 1; 350/2000, S. 1; 109/2002, s. 1; 193/2005, app. a, s. 1; 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 9; 141/2009, sch. s. 2.] Application
2 This regulation does not apply to class c parks.
Division 2 — permits Removal of property and restoration of area 3 (1) Except as otherwise provided in a park use permit or resource use Permit, every person must, within the 30 day period following (a) The expiry or other termination of a park use permit or resource use Permit, or (b) Receipt of a written order from a park officer, Remove all personal property and dispose of all structures, Improvements and works of any nature in a park, conservancy or Recreation area and restore, repair or rehabilitate the area as nearly As possible to its natural condition, or restore, repair or Rehabilitate the area to the satisfaction of the park officer issuing The order.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to structures, improvements and works That are the property of the province.
(3) If a person fails to remove personal property or dispose of Structures, improvements or works as required by subsection (1), a Park officer may remove the personal property and dispose of the Structures, improvements or works.
(4) If a person fails to restore, repair or rehabilitate an area as Required by subsection (1), a park officer may restore, repair or Rehabilitate the area as the park officer considers necessary.
(5) Any expense incurred by the province under subsection (3) or (4) is a Debt owing the province by the person who failed to comply with Subsection (1).
(6) A debt incurred under this section may be retained from any security Which the province requires to be maintained by a person as a Condition of a park use permit or resource use permit.
(7) In the absence of a sufficient security under subsection (6) to Extinguish a debt incurred under this section, the debt or remaining Debt is recoverable at suit of the province in any court of competent Jurisdiction.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) and (c).] Permits for guiding required 4 A person must not act as a guide or offer services as a guide in a Park, conservancy or recreation area without (a) A valid park use permit or resource use permit issued for that Purpose, and (b) A licence or permit to guide if required by or under the Wildlife act .
[am. b.c. regs. 25/2005, sch. s. 1; 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, Sch. s. 1 (d).] Permits for trapping required 5 A person must not trap or take any fur bearing animal in a park, Conservancy or recreation area without (a) A valid park use permit or resource use permit issued for that Purpose, and (b) A licence or permit to trap issued under the Wildlife act .
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1.] Division 3 — public conduct and enforcement Repealed
6 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 193/2005, app. a, s. 2.] Must give information 7 Every person who enters or is in a park, conservancy or recreation Area must, at the request of a park officer or park ranger, provide Information about any matter pertaining to the use or occupancy of the Park, conservancy or recreation area including that person's correct Name, address, destination and proposed activities and conduct in the Park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Disturbance prohibited 8 (1) A person must not create or cause a deliberate or unnecessary Disturbance in a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not, between the Hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day, operate or permit Another person to operate any device that produces sound at a level Which disturbs the peace and quiet of (a) An occupant of another campsite, or (b) Persons in the park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Eviction
9 (1) A park ranger may order a person who does anything contrary to this Regulation to leave a park, conservancy or recreation area, or a Specified portion of it, within a period of time specified by the park Ranger, and every person so ordered must comply with the order and Leave the park, conservancy or recreation area, or the specified Portion of it, within that specified period of time.
(2) If no period of time is specified in an order issued under subsection (1), the order is effective immediately.
(3) The order issued under subsection (1) must specify the period of time During which the order is to remain in effect, but in no case may it Remain in effect for more than 72 hours from the time the order is Issued.
(4) A park ranger may use reasonable force to remove a person from the Park, conservancy or recreation area, or the specified portion of it, If that person fails to comply with an order under subsection (1).
(5) A person who is ordered to leave the park, conservancy or recreation Area is not entitled to a refund of any fee which may have been paid By the party or group of which that person is a member.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) to (c).] Signs
10 (1) A park officer may erect a sign or other device specifying an area in Which specific activities are permitted, prohibited or restricted in a Park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Every person must observe and obey every prohibition and restriction Announced by the sign or other device erected under subsection (1).
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a).] Fires
11 (1) A person must not start or maintain a fire in a park, conservancy or Recreation area in (a) A campground, (b) Frontcountry, or (c) Backcountry that is less than 2 000 hectares in size, Unless the fire is (d) In a fireplace provided by the ministry, and (e) Not more than 0.5 metres in diameter and 0.5 metres in height.
(2) A person must not use vegetation from a campground or from Frontcountry to start or maintain a fire except (a) Vegetation that is specifically provided as firewood by the ministry Or an operator, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(3) A person must not use vegetation from backcountry to start or maintain A fire except vegetation that is dead and lying on the ground.
(4) A person who starts or maintains a fire must extinguish the fire when That person leaves the campground, frontcountry or backcountry.
(5) A park officer may, at any time, (a) Prohibit a fire in a park, conservancy or recreation area, (b) Extinguish a fire, or (c) Require that a fire be contained within a device approved by the park Officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) and (d).] Tobacco and e-cigarettes 11.1 (1) In this section, "activated e-cigarette" , "e-cigarette" And
"tobacco" Have the same meaning as in the Tobacco and vapour products control act .
(2) A person must not smoke tobacco, hold lighted tobacco, use an E-cigarette or hold an activated e-cigarette in a park, conservancy or Recreation area except (a) In an area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[en. b.c. reg. 210/2018, app. 1.] Snow sliding devices 12 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not use or Operate any snow sliding device in mount seymour park, cypress park or E.c. manning park unless (a) In an area specifically designated and posted for such use, and (b) On a snow sliding device approved by a park officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Responsibility for action of minors 13 A parent, guardian, custodian or person in charge of a minor must not Permit the minor to do anything that is prohibited by the act or this Regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (f).] Exemption from this regulation 14 A person who is a peace officer, park officer or park ranger is exempt From this regulation while acting in that capacity.
Obstruction of a park officer or park ranger 15 A person must not willfully obstruct a park officer or park ranger Acting in that capacity.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Bowron lake park special regulation 16 Except on bowron lake or as authorized by a park officer, not more Than 6 persons may travel together on the circuit of lakes in bowron Lake park.
Storage of equipment and supplies 17 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not store, cache Or leave equipment or supplies in a park, conservancy or recreation Area for a period of more than 14 days in a calendar year.
(2) A person must not store, cache or leave equipment or supplies in a Campground or day use area except (a) In the campsite at which that person is registered, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Horses prohibited 18 A person must not have a horse or other draught or riding animal in a Park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Control of domestic animals 19 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in any part of a park, conservancy Or recreation area that is (a) A beach within a campground or day use area, (b) A public building or structure, or (c) An area in which domestic animals are prohibited by a sign or other Device.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a domestic animal that is used to Guide a blind person.
(3) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in frontcountry or in backcountry That is less than 2 000 hectares in size unless the domestic animal is (a) Restrained by a leash not longer than 2 metres, or (b) Confined in a container, enclosure or motor vehicle.
(4) A person must not allow a domestic animal in a park, conservancy or Recreation area to (a) Cause an annoyance, (b) Injure a person, (c) Damage property or vegetation, or (d) Chase or molest wildlife.
(5) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in bowron lake park or garibaldi Park.
(6) A person who has a domestic animal in a park, conservancy or Recreation area must dispose of excrement from that domestic animal in A manner and at a location where the excrement will not cause a public Inconvenience or annoyance.
(7) A park officer may order a person who contravenes this section to Remove the domestic animal from the park, conservancy or recreation Area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Control of other animals 20 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person who owns or is Responsible for an animal must not, in a park, conservancy or Recreation area, allow that animal to (a) Graze, browse or otherwise consume vegetation, or (b) Roam at large.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (g).] Explosives prohibited 21 A person must not have an explosive or an explosive substance in a Park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) Lawfully carried firearm ammunition, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Division 4 — motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft Peace officer authority under Motor vehicle act 22 A park ranger has the powers and authority of a peace officer for the Purposes of enforcement of the Motor vehicle act And control of traffic within a park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Illegal parking and tow away 23 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not (a) Stop or park a vehicle on the travelled portion of a park road, or (b) Stop or park a vehicle in such a manner as to (i) Impede the proper use of a park road, (ii) Damage vegetation, (iii) Restrict or inhibit recreational use of the park, conservancy or Recreation area, or (iv) Park a vehicle in the frontcountry without payment of the vehicle Parking fee required by regulation.
(2) A person must not, between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the Following day, stop or park a vehicle in a campground, day use area or Parking area of a park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) At a campsite where that person is the member of a registered party, Group or youth group, (b) In a parking area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
(3) If a vehicle is stopped or parked in contravention of subsection (1) Or (2), a park officer may remove the vehicle to a place of Impoundment and any costs incurred by that removal are a debt of the Owner of the vehicle payable to the party that removed and impounded The vehicle, which debt must be paid before removal of the vehicle From the place of impoundment.
(4) A park officer removing a vehicle under subsection (3) must exercise Reasonable care to avoid damage to the vehicle involved, but neither The province nor any park officer is liable or accountable to the Owner for damage to the vehicle being removed arising from that Removal.
[am. b.c. regs. 25/2003, s. 1; 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss.
1 (a) and (c) to (e) and 3.] Motor vehicles and snowmobiles 24 (1) A person must not use or operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle or other Self-propelled vehicle in a park, conservancy or recreation area Except
(a) On a park road, (b) In an area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a self-propelled wheelchair or other Similar conveyance used by a disabled person.
(3) A person must not use or operate a snowmobile in a park, conservancy Or recreation area except (a) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Cycles
25 A person must not ride a cycle in a park, conservancy or recreation Area except (a) On a park road, (b) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Commercial vehicles prohibited 26 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not have in a Park, conservancy or recreation area a vehicle that displays Advertising or is equipped with a public address system if that Vehicle is being used to advertise, demonstrate or attract attention.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Aircraft
27 (1) Subject to the act and this section, a person may use an aircraft to Arrive at or depart from a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) A person must not use an aircraft to arrive at or depart from parks or Parts of parks that are set out in column 1 of schedule a, except as May be provided for in the same row in column 2 of that schedule.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2004, s. 1; am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Division 5 — firearms, hunting and fishing Possession of firearms, bows and crossbows 28 A person must not possess a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, Conservancy or recreation area except (a) A firearm, bow or crossbow that is carried in a vehicle, (b) During an open season specified under the Wildlife act In those parks, conservancies and recreation areas listed in schedule B,
(c) In columbia lake park between september 10 and june 15 of the Following year, or (d) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 10; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Discharge of firearms, bows and crossbows prohibited 29 (1) A person must not discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, Conservancy or recreation area except (a) During an open season specified under the Wildlife act In those parks, conservancies and recreation areas listed in schedule B and only for the purposes of hunting, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not hunt or Discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, conservancy or Recreation area within 400 metres of either side of the centreline of A park road or highway.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 10; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) And (e).] Feeding of wildlife 30 A person must not feed wildlife in a park, conservancy or recreation Area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Seizure of hunting and fishing devices 31 (1) A park ranger may seize a firearm, bow, crossbow, fishing rod or other Device used in a park, conservancy or recreation area to capture fish Or wildlife if the park ranger finds that the firearm, bow, crossbow, Fishing rod or other device is being used by or is in the possession Of a person who (a) Is in contravention of the Wildlife act Or section 28 or 29 of this regulation, or (b) Fails upon request to exhibit a proper licence or permit issued under The
Wildlife act .
(2) A firearm, bow, crossbow, fishing rod or other device that is seized Under subsection (1) must be taken before a justice who, if satisfied That at the time of seizure it was being used or possessed in Contravention of the Wildlife act Or section 28 or 29 of this regulation, may order it forfeited to the Crown.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a).] Division 6 — preservation and waste management Prohibited activity 32 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not (a) Damage or destroy any natural resource or property in a park, Conservancy or recreation area, (b) Possess any natural resource or property of a park, conservancy or Recreation area, (c) Remove any natural resource or property from a park, conservancy or Recreation area, (d) Engage in any research or collection activity in a park, conservancy Or recreation area, (e) Remove water from a park, conservancy or recreation area for purposes Other than personal consumption, or (f) Deposit waste in a park, conservancy or recreation area or allow or Cause waste to flow on or seep into any land or water or to be emitted Into the air.
(2) Subsection (1) (a) to (c) does not apply to wildlife taken under this Regulation.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Litter only in receptacle provided 33 (1) A person must not deposit litter in a park, conservancy or recreation Area except in a receptacle, pit or area provided for that purpose by The ministry or an operator.
(2) If a receptacle, pit or area is not provided for the deposit of Litter, a person must not leave litter in a park, conservancy or Recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Transporting litter into a park, conservancy or recreation area 34 A person must not bring domestic, commercial or industrial litter into A park, conservancy or recreation area for the purpose of disposal.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Division 7 — camping and picnicking Designated representative 35 (1) Every party, group or youth group using a park, conservancy or Recreation area facility or service for which a fee is payable must Designate one person to be the designated representative of that Party, group or youth group.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, the designated representative Must be 16 years of age or older.
(3) The designated representative must be responsible for (a) The registration of the party, group or youth group, (b) The payment of fees required to be paid by that party, group or youth Group under this regulation, and (c) The actions and conduct of each person in the party, group or youth Group and each guest and visitor of that party, group or youth group While in the park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (a) and 4.] Registration required 36 The designated representative of a party, group or youth group that Camps or uses facilities or services of a park, conservancy or Recreation area for which the minister, by regulation or directive, Has established a fee, must register with the ministry or an operator, As the case may be, by providing all of the following information:
(a) The correct name of the designated representative; (b) The number of persons in the party, group or youth group; (c) The mode of transportation of the party, group or youth group; (d) Any other information reasonably required to identify the party, group Or youth group.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 5.] Controlled public access 37 (1) A person must not, between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the Following day, enter or remain in a campground except (a) A person who is the member of a registered party, group or youth Group, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not, between the Hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day, enter or remain in a Day use area.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (d) and (e) and 6.] Camping restrictions 38 (1) A person must not camp in (a) Frontcountry, or (b) Backcountry less than 2 000 hectares in size Except
(c) In a campsite, or (d) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) If backcountry is 2 000 hectares or more in size, a park officer may Restrict camping to a designated area, campground or campsite.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Maximum length of stay 39 (1) A person may not camp in a park, conservancy or recreation area for More than 14 days except (a) As authorized by a park officer, or (b) In a designated long-stay campsite.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person who owns a vessel or Is responsible for a vessel must not allow that vessel to remain Overnight in a park, conservancy or recreation area for more than 14 Days in a calendar year.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (h) and 7.] Limited occupancy or use 40 (1) A park officer may (a) Limit at any one time the number of persons, vehicles or vessels in a Park, conservancy or recreation area or any part of a park, Conservancy or recreation area, or (b) Close to public use a park, conservancy or recreation area or any part Of a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Notwithstanding section 39, a park officer may limit the length of Stay of a person in a park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Second vehicles 40.1 (1) A party may not have more than one recreational vehicle on a campsite.
(2) A party may have a second non-recreational vehicle on a campsite (a) If so authorized by a park officer and on payment of the fee Established by regulation or directive of the minister, or (b) If the campsite is a designated long-stay campsite.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 8.] Maximum number of persons on a campsite 40.2 No more than 8 persons may occupy a campsite, unless a park officer Authorizes a different number.
[en. b.c. reg. 350/2000, s. 2.] Division 8 — fees Fee collection period 41 (1) If fees established by the minister by regulation or directive are Levied on an overnight basis, the overnight period commences at 12 Noon and terminates at 12 noon the following day.
(2) If fees established by the minister by regulation or directive are Levied on a day basis, the day period commences and terminates at the Times approved by a park officer between 7 a.m. and 11 p.m. on the Same day.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 9.] Payment of fees 42 The designated representative of a party, group or youth group that Camps or uses a campsite or other authorized facility or area in a Park, conservancy or recreation area must, (a) In respect of a campsite or other authorized facility or area managed By the minister, pay to the ministry the fees established by Regulation or directive of the minister, or (b) In respect of a campsite or other authorized facility or area managed By an operator, pay to the operator the fees established by regulation Or directive of the minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 10.] Repealed
43-50 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 67/94, s. 3.] Repealed
51-52 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 11.] Park use permit and resource use permit fees 53 (1) A person applying for a park use permit or resource use permit for a Purpose listed in schedule k, part 1, column 1, must pay to the Minister the application fee set out opposite that purpose in column 2.
(2) A permit holder must, for a request or requirement listed in schedule K, part 2, column 1, pay to the minister the fee set out in column 2 Opposite that request or requirement.
(3) A person to whom a permit listed in schedule k, part 3, column 1 was Issued before january 30, 2018 must pay to the minister the fee set Out opposite that permit type in column 2 (a) In the case of a permit issued for a term of one year or less, when The permit is issued, and (b) In the case of a permit issued for a term of more than one year, when The permit is issued and, annually thereafter, before the anniversary Date of the issue of the permit, until the end of the term.
(4) No fee is payable under this section for a park use permit or resource Use permit issued (a) To british columbia or to canada, (b) For the purposes of research, (c) For public telephones, (d) For the operation of campground and day facilities in a park, Conservancy or recreation area, (e) For exploration and development work authorized by an approved Reclamation permit issued under the mines act, being undertaken on a Mineral claim in good standing in a recreation area designated under Section 23 of the Mineral tenure act , (f) For a use for which, prior to april 1, 1988, no fee was payable, or (g) If the minister directs that payment is not required.
(5) Subject to subsections (4) and (6), the fees payable under this Section are in addition to and not instead of any other amount payable By an applicant or permit holder under the act, this regulation, or Another enactment.
(6) No fee listed in parts 3 and 4 of schedule k for a park use permit or Resource use permit is payable if the permit is issued to a non-profit Organization.
[en. b.c. reg. 437/2004, s. 1; am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 11; 233/2017.] Repealed
54-55 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 67/94, s. 3.] Division 9 — park rangers Park ranger responsibilities 56 The following enactments are prescribed for purposes of section 4 (3) (b) of the act:
(a) Regulations under the Ecological reserve act ; (b) Sections 12 and 13 of the Environmental management act ; (c) Section 9 of the Firearm act ; (d) Liquor control and licensing act ; (d.1) Cannabis control and licensing act ; (e) Motor vehicle act And regulations under that act; (f) Off-road vehicle act And regulations under that act; (g) Sections 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Trespass act .
[en. b.c. reg. 193/2005, app. a, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 193/2015, app.
5; 193/2018, sch. 2; 209/2018, s. (a).] Schedule a [en. b.c. reg. 242/2004, s. 2.] Prohibition of aircraft arrivals and departures and exceptions (section 27 (2)) Column 1
Areas of prohibited aircraft Arrival/departure Column 2
Exceptions
Akamina-kishinena park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Bowron lake park North of gps coordinate n5900416 (north of 53° 01' 07.4") on Bowron lake Brooks peninsula park other than Columbia cove and klaskish anchorage (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Bugaboo park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Cape scott park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Cathedral park (a) from december 1 to march 31, at or from lake of the woods, Quiniscoe lake, glacier lake, pyramid lake or ladyslipper lake, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Cummins lakes park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit E. c. manning park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Elk lakes park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Garibaldi park With prior authorization from a park officer Goat range park With prior authorization from a park officer Height of the rockies park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Cecilia lake at kakwa park With prior authorization from a park officer Khutzeymateen park (a) at or from ryan lake but only with prior authorization from a Park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Kianuko park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Kokanee glacier park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Lava forks park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Mitlenatch island nature park [no exceptions] Monashee park other than peters lake (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Mount assiniboine park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Buckley lake, mowchilla lake, little ball lake And little arctic lake at mount edziza park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Lava flows (on the kitsu plateau situated South-southwest of raspberry pass) at Mount edziza park, from an elevation of 5 500 feet or higher [no exceptions] Mount robson park other than moose lake As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Purcell wilderness conservancy park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit St. mary's alpine park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Schoen lake park [no exceptions] Happy lake, metsantan lake, the unnamed lake west of Tuaton mountain (map sheet 104h/8 utm 481-489), The unnamed lake west of buckinghorse lake (map sheet 104h/17 utm 241-498) and the spatsizi River above hyland post at spatsizi plateau wilderness park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Stein valley nlaka'pamux heritage park [no exceptions] Strathcona park other than buttle lake, gold lake, Great central lake, megin lake or upper campbell lake (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Swan lake kispiox river park other than Footsore lake, swordgrass lake, swan lake And brown bear lake As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Tantalus park other than lake lovely water (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Hoy lake and the unnamed lake southwest of Kitchener lake (map sheet 104e/17 utm 241-498) at tatlatui park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Tetrahedron park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Top of the world park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Fenton lake, kidney lake, vista lake and Widgeon lake at tweedsmuir park (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Junker lake at tweedsmuir park (a) on saturdays and sundays from may 1 to september 15 Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., (b) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (c) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Valhalla park other than avis lake, Demers lake and evans lake (a) with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit Wells gray park other than clearwater lake and Mahood lake (a) at or from azure lake, hobson lake or mcdougall lake, But only with prior authorization from a park officer, or (b) as authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit West arm park As authorized by a valid and subsisting park use permit White pelican park At or from stum lake but only with prior authorization from a park Officer
Schedule b [en. b.c. reg. 192/2005; am. b.c. regs. 126/2006; 215/2006, sch. s. 12; 99/2007; 196/2008; 84/2009; 123/2022.] Use of hunting weapons in parks, Conservancies and recreation areas Adams lake marine park Akamina-kishinena park Alty conservancy Anarchist protected area Ancient forest/chun t'oh whudujut park Ancient forest/chun t'oh whudujut protected area Anhluut'ukwsim laxmihl Angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a [nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park] Anstey-hunakwa park Arctic pacific lakes park Arrowstone park Atlin/a téix'gi aan tlein park Atna river park Babine lake marine park Babine mountains park Babine mountains trails Babine river corridor park Banana island park Banks nii luutiksm conservancy Bear island conservancy Bearhole lake park Bearhole lake protected area Beatton river park Beaver valley park Becher's prairie park Bedard aspen park Bella coola estuary conservancy Big creek park Bishop bay — monkey beach conservancy Bishop bay — monkey beach corridor conservancy Bishop river park Bligh island marine park Blue earth lake park Blue river black spruce park Blue river pine park Bobtail mountain park Bocock peak park Bodega ridge park Bonaparte park Boothman's oxbow park Border lake park Boulder creek park Bowron lake park (addition) Brent mountain protected area Brim river hot springs protected area Browne lake park Bugaboo park Bulkley junction park Burnie river protected area Burnie-shea park Burns lake park Burnt bridge creek conservancy Buse lake protected area Butler ridge park Caligata lake park Callaghan lake park Calvert island conservancy Cape scott park Cariboo mountains park Cariboo river park Carmanah walbran park Carp lake park Carter bay conservancy Cascade-sutslem conservancy Catala island marine park Cathedral park Cathedral protected area Catto creek conservancy Cetan/thurston bay conservancy Chase park Chasm park Chilliwack lake park Chu chua cottonwood park Chukachida protected area Churn creek protected area Cinnemousun narrows park Claud elliott lake park Clayoquot arm park Clayoquot plateau park Clayton falls conservancy Clendinning park Close-to-the-edge park Close-to-the-edge protected area Clyak estuary conservancy Codville lagoon conservancy Copper johnny park Coquihalla summit recreation area Cornwall hills park Crab lake conservancy Craig headwaters protected area Cranstown point conservancy Cummins lakes park Cummins river protected area Daawuuxusda conservancy Dahl lake park (addition) Dala-kildala rivers estuaries park Dall river old growth park Damaxyaa conservancy Damdochax protected area Dante's inferno park Darke lake park Dawley passage park Dean river conservancy Dean river corridor conservancy Denetiah corridor protected area Denetiah park Denison-bonneau park Desolation sound marine park Donnely lake park Dragon mountain park Duck lake protected area Dune za keyih park Dune za keyih protected area Dunn peak park Duu guusd conservancy Dzawadi/klinaklini estuary conservancy Dzawadi/upper klinaklini river conservancy Eagle bay park Eakin creek canyon park Eakin creek floodplain park E.c. manning park (snass creek addition) Ecstall headwaters conservancy Ecstall-sparkling conservancy Ecstall-spoksuut conservancy Ed bird-estella park Edge hills park Ekwan lake protected area Elephant hill park Elk lakes park Elk valley park Ellerslie — roscoe conservancy Emar lakes park Emily lake conservancy Enderby cliffs park Eneas lakes park English lake park Entiako park Epper passage park Epsom park Erg mountain park Eskers park (taginchil lake addition) Esté-tiwilh/sigurd creek conservancy Ethelda bay — tennant island conservancy Europa lake conservancy Evanoff park Exchamsiks river protected area Finger-tatuk park Finlay-russel park Finlay-russel protected area Finn creek park Finn creek protected area Fintry protected area Fiordland conservancy Flat lake park Flores island park Foch-gilttoyees park Foch-gilttoyees protected area Fort george canyon park Forward harbour/ƛǝx W
Ǝyǝm conservancy Foster arm protected area Francois lake park Francois lake protected area Fraser river breaks park Fraser river park Gibson marine park Gilnockie park Gilpin grasslands park Giscome portage trail protected area Gitnadoiks river park Gitnadoiks river protected area Gitxaała nii łuutiksm/kitkatla conservancy Gladstone park Goat cove conservancy Goat range park God's pocket marine park Goguka creek protected area Gold muchalat park Goose bay conservancy Graham-laurier park Granby park Graystokes park Great glacier park Greenbush lake protected area Greenstone mountain park Gunboat harbour conservancy Gwillim lake park (addition) Hai lake-mount herman park Hakai conservation study area Hakai lúxvbálís conservancy Hamber park Harbour-dudgeon lakes park Harry lake aspen park Hay river protected area Heather-dina lakes park Height of the rockies Hǝnʎǝmd
Z
I mǝkola/yorke island conservancy Hesquiat lake park Hesquiat peninsula park High lakes basin park Hisnit river watershed protected area Hole-in-the-wall park Holliday creek arch protected area Homathko estuary park Homathko river-tatlayoko protected area Horneline creek park Hotsprings — no name creek conservancy Huchsduwachsdu nuyem jees/kitlope heritage conservancy Hunwadi/ahnuhati — bald conservancy I7loqaw7/100 lakes plateau conservancy Indian arm park Inland lake park Itcha ilgachuz park Jackman flats park Jackpine remnant protected area Jáji7em and kw'ulh marine park [a.k.a. sandy island marine park] Jesse falls protected area Jump across conservancy Junction sheep range park Kakwa park Kakwa protected area Kalamalka lake park Kamdis conservancy K'distsausk/turtle point conservancy Kennedy island conservancy Keremeos columns park Khtada lake conservancy Khutzeymateen inlet conservancy Khutzeymateen inlet west conservancy Khutzeymateen park Khyex conservancy Kianuko park Kikomun creek park Kilbella estuary conservancy Kimsquit estuary conservancy Kingfisher creek park Kiskatinaw river park Kitasoo spirit bear conservancy Kitimat river park Kitsumkalum lake north protected area Kitwanga mountain park Klewnuggit conservancy K'lgaan/klekane conservancy Klin-se-za park Klua lakes protected area Kluskoil lake park K'mooda/lowe-gamble conservancy K'nabiyaaxl/ashdown conservancy Koeye conservancy Kokanee glacier park K'ootz/khutze conservancy Kotcho lake village site park Ksgaxl/stephens island conservancy Ksi x'anmaas conservancy Ksi xts'at'kw/stagoo conservancy Kt'ii/racey conservancy Ktisgaidz/macdonald bay conservancy Kts'mkta'ani/union lake conservancy Kunxalas conservancy K
'uuna gwaay conservancy K'waal conservancy Kwadacha wilderness park Kwatna estuary conservancy K'zuzált/twin two conservancy Lac du bois grasslands protected area Lady douglas-don peninsula conservancy Lakelse lake wetlands park Larcom lagoon conservancy Lava forks park Lax ka'gaas/campania conservancy Lax kul nii luutiksm/bonilla conservancy Lax kwaxl/dundas and melville islands conservancy Lax kwil dziidz/fin conservancy Liard river corridor park Liard river corridor protected area Liard river west corridor park Little andrews bay park Lockhart creek park Lockhart — gordon conservancy Long creek park Long island conservancy Lower nimpkish park Lower raush protected area Lower skeena river park Lucy islands conservancy Lundmark bog protected area Machmell conservancy Mahpahkum-ahkwuna/deserters-walker conservancy Main lake park Malaspina park Manzanita cove conservancy Mara meadows park Marble canyon park Marble range park Marble river park Marl creek park Maxhamish lake protected area Maxtaktsm'aa/union passage conservancy Mcconnell lake park Mcdonald creek park Mehatl creek park Milligan hills park Mkwal'ts conservancy Moksgm'ol/chapple — cornwall conservancy Momich lakes park Monarch mountain/a xéegi deiyi conservancy Monashee park (addition) Monckton nii łuutiksm conservancy Monkman park (addition) Moose valley park Morice lake park Mount assiniboine park Mount blanchet park Mount edziza park Mount elphinstone park Mount griffin park Mount pope park Mount richardson park Mount robson park (addition) Mount savona park M
Q
Uq
W
In/brooks peninsula park Mud lake delta park Mudzenchoot park Muncho lake park Muscovite lakes park Myra-bellevue park Myra-bellevue protected area Nadina mountain park Nahatlatch park Nahatlatch protected area Naikoon park Nakina — inklin rivers (kuthai area)/yáwu yaa conservancy Nakina — inklin rivers/yáwu yaa conservancy Nalbeelah creek wetlands park Namu conservancy Namu corridor conservancy Nang xaldangaas conservancy Nanika-kidprice park Nation lakes park Nazko lake park Ne'āh' conservancy Nechako canyon protected area Neğiƛ/nekite estuary conservancy Netalzul meadows park Nickel plate park Nilkitwa lake park Nimpkish lake park Ningunsaw park Nlháxten/cerise creek conservancy Nooseneck conservancy North spit conservancy North thompson islands park North thompson oxbows east park North thompson oxbows manteau park Northern rocky mountains park Northern rocky mountains protected area Nuchatlitz park Nunsti park Octopus islands marine park Okanagan mountain park Old man lake park Omineca park Omineca protected area Oregon jack park Outer central coast islands conservancy Owikeno conservancy Owyacumish river park Pa-aat conservancy Painted bluffs park Pałǝmin/estero basin conservancy Patterson lake park Peace river corridor park Pennask creek park Penrose — ripon conservancy Phillips estuary/ɂnacinux W
Conservancy
Pillar park Pilot bay park Pine le moray park Pine river breaks park Pinecone burke park Pink mountain park Pitman river protected area Pooley conservancy Porcupine meadows park Port arthur conservancy Portage brule rapids protected area Premier lake park Prophet river hotsprings park Ptarmigan creek park Ptarmigan protected area Pukeashun park Punti island park Purcell wilderness conservancy corridor protected area Purcell wilderness conservancy park Purden lake park (addition) Pyramid creek falls park Q'altanaas/aaltanhash conservancy Quatsino park Qudǝs/gillard — jimmy judd island conservancy Qwalímak/upper birkenhead conservancy Qwiquallaaq/boat bay conservancy Rainbow alley park Rainbow/q'iwentem park Redbrush park Redfern-keily park Rescue bay conservancy Restoration bay conservancy Roche lake park Rubyrock lake park Sanctuary bay conservancy Sand point conservancy Scatter river old growth park Schoen lake park Schoolhouse lake park Seven sisters park Seven sisters protected area Sg̱aay taw siiwaay k'adjuu conservancy Shearwater hot springs conservancy Sheemahant conservancy Shuswap lake marine park Shuswap river islands park Sikanni chief canyon park Sikanni chief falls protected area Sikanni old growth park Silver star park Simpson lake east conservancy Simson park Six mile hill protected area Skagit valley park Skeena bank conservancy Skookumchuck rapids park Sleeping beauty mountain park Slim creek park Small river caves park Smith river-fort halkett park Smithers island conservancy Snowy protected area Sooke mountain park South okanagan grasslands protected area South texada island park Spatsizi headwaters park Spatsizi plateau wilderness park Spipiyus park St. mary's alpine park Stair creek conservancy Stein valley nlaka'pamux heritage park Stikine river park Stone mountain park Strathcona park (additions) Stuart lake marine park Stuart lake park Stuart river park Sue channel park Sugarbowl-grizzly den park Sugarbowl-grizzly den protected area Sulphur passage park Sustut park Sustut protected area Sutherland river park Sutherland river protected area Swan creek protected area Swan lake kispiox river park Sydney inlet park Syringa park Tā ch'ilā park (a.k.a. boya lake park) Tahsish-kwois park Takla lake marine park — takla west site and white bluff site Taku river/t'a K
Ú téi X
' conservancy Tantalus park Tatlatui park Tatshenshini-alsek park Taweel park Tenh d Z
Etle conservancy Thinahtea north protected area Thinahtea south protected area Thorsen creek conservancy Three sisters lake park Thulme falls conservancy Thunderbird's nest ( T'iitsk'in paawats ) protected area Thurston bay marine park Titetown park Tlall conservancy Toad river hotsprings park Todagin south slope park Top of the world park Tranquil creek park Trembleur lake park Trepanier park Troup passage conservancy Tsa-latl/smokehouse conservancy Ts'ilɂos park Tsintsunko lakes park Tunkwa park Tuya mountains park Tweedsmuir corridor protected area Tweedsmuir park Ug
W
Iwey/cape caution — blunden bay conservancy Ug
W
Iwey/cape caution conservancy Uncha mountain red hills park Upper adams river park Upper elaho valley conservancy Upper gladys river/watsíx deiyi conservancy Upper kimsquit river conservancy Upper klinaklini protected area Upper lillooet park Upper raush protected area Upper rogers kólii7 conservancy Upper seymour park Upper violet creek park Valhalla park Vargas island park Vaseux protected area Wahkash point conservancy Wakeman estuary conservancy Wales harbour conservancy Walhachin oxbows park Wap creek park Wapiti lake park Ẁaẁley/seymour estuary conservancy Wells gray park West arm park West twin park West twin protected area White lake grasslands protected area White pelican park White ridge park Whiteswan lake park Wilkinson-wright bay conservancy Windermere lake park Winter inlet conservancy Wire cache park Woodworth lake conservancy Woss lake park Wrinkly face park X
W
Aḱ
W
Əɂnaxdəɂma/stafford estuary conservancy Yaaguun gandlaay conservancy Yaaguun suu conservancy Zumtela bay conservancy Schedule c Repealed. [b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 12.] Schedules d to j Repealed. [b.c. reg. 62/99, s. 4.] Schedule k [en. b.c. reg. 437/2004, s. 2; am. b.c. regs. 25/2005, sch. s. 2; 215/2006, sch. s. 13; 112/2010, s. 10; 211/2015, s. 27; 296/2016; 66/2017.] Fees for park use permits and resource use permits (section 53) Tax imposed under part ix of the Excise tax act (canada) applies to all fees in this schedule but is not included in the Listed amounts.
Part 1 — application fees for park use permits and resource use Permits
Column 1
Column 2
Use applied for Fee payable by applicant 1 Commercial recreation, one year or longer term — minor/low Impact, non-motorized use; multiple trips $250 2 Commercial recreation, less than one year term — minor/low Impact, non-motorized use; single or multiple trips Actual costs based on $50/hour staff time, With a 2-hour minimum and $250 maximum, 3 Commercial services, general — vendors and client services Including: equipment rentals, food concessions and provision Of access transportation $250 4 Commercial recreation, motorized — major/high impact: heli-ski Operations, use of tracked vehicles, helicopters to guide ski Excursions,
Boat tours $3 300 5 Minor ski areas — compact/small, minimal use of mechanized lifts, Moderate impact $1 000 6 Major resorts — alpine ski facilities with multiple mechanized lifts, Lodges, resorts or tourism developments Actual costs based on $50/hour staff time or $3 300, whichever is greater 7 Communication sites — transmission/receiving structures; radio, Microwave, repeater, satellite, cellular phones $1 000 8 Roadways
— public $250 9 Roadways
— industrial or private access $1 000 10 Rights-of-way (utilities) less than 25 km long — including hydro Lines, gas, fibre optics, oil, water $1 000 11 Rights-of-way (utilities) longer than 25 km — including hydro Lines, gas, fibre optics, oil, water Actual costs based on $50/hour staff time or $1 000, whichever is greater 12 Agriculture or grazing $250 13 Residential
— institutional or community use of private or Crown-owned structures, with or without adjacent area; Cottages, cabins, huts $250 14 Non-profit organizations — use of private or crown-owned Structures; with or without adjacent area $250 15 Private moorage — foreshore facilities; docks, wharves $250 16 Aquaculture
— shellfish, molluscs, finfish $4 925 17 Quarrying
— rock or aggregate removal $1 000 18 Log handling — log storage, log sorts $1 000 19 Alternative power projects — includes water and wind power $3 300 20 Energy and mining $500 21 Film production $200 Part 2 — administration fees for park use permits Column 1
Column 2
Administrative request or requirement Fee payable by permit holder 1 Permit renewal 50% of new application fee 2 Minor amendments to permit $100 3 Major amendments to permit $500 4 Assignment and sub-tenure or transfer $250 5 to 9 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 66/2017.] Part 3 — general fees Item
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Types of permits classified according to the use permitted Fees payable by an individual, group, company or local Government for use of park act lands Fees payable by an individual or company for industrial use of Park act lands 1 Privately-owned structures The exclusive use of a structure or structures not supplied by the Province
(a) without a defined adjacent area (site only), or $500 per year and $50 per structure per year $1 000 per year (b) with a defined adjacent area.
$500 per year and $250 per hectare per year plus $50 per structure Per year.
$1 000 per year or $500 per hectare per year plus $100 per Structure per year, whichever is greater.
Satellite facilities $200 per site per year Tent/spike camp $100 per site per year 2 Provincially-owned structures The exclusive use of a structure or structures supplied in whole Or in part by the province, with or without a defined adjacent Area.
$500 per year, or, if occupying a defined adjacent area, $25 per M2 of structure per year plus $250 per hectare per year, whichever Is greater.
$1 000 per year, or, if occupying a defined adjacent area, $50 per m 2 Of structure per year plus $500 per hectare per year, whichever is Greater.
3 Access
The use of a defined area for a road, chairlift, trail, ski run or Ski trail.
Individual or group:
$500 per year or $60 per hectare per year, whichever is greater.
Company or local government:
$500 per year or 2% of gross revenues per year, whichever is Greater.
$500 per year or $60 per hectare per year, whichever is greater.
4 Rights of way and miscellaneous land use without structures The use of a defined area for a powerline, telephone line, Pipeline or other service or utility right of way and other Miscellaneous land use without structures.
Individual or group:
$60 per hectare per year Company or local government:
$500 per year or $60 per hectare per year, whichever is greater.
$1 000 per year or $60 per hectare per year, whichever is Greater.
Part 4 — miscellaneous fees Item
Column 1
Column 2
Types of park use permits and resource use permits Classified according to the use permitted Fee
1 Commercial recreation — major resorts The use of a defined area to operate alpine ski facilities or Large-scale lodges and resorts.
$500 per year and a percentage of gross revenues as identified in The park use permit or resource use permit.
2 Commercial use/activity The use of a defined area to carry on, for compensation received Or promised, a commercial activity not referred to in any other Item of this schedule, whether or not the right to use the area or Conduct the activity is exclusive.
(a) non-motorized activity and no use of structures For six consecutive months or less, $125 or $1 per client day, whichever is greater.
For six consecutive months to one year, $250 or $1 per client day, whichever is greater.
(b) motorized activity $500 per year or $1 per client day plus $50 per structure plus, if occupying a defined adjacent area, $250 per hectare per year, whichever is greater 3 Commercial mechanized ski guiding The use of a defined area to carry on commercial activities in Which tracked vehicles, fixed wing planes or helicopters are used To guide or conduct ski excursions.
$1 000 per year or $4 per user day, whichever is greater.
4 Grazing
The use of a defined area for the grazing of animals.
$100 per year or the total ground rent plus, if the permittee held A licence or permit under the Range act , the grazing fee that would be payable each year under section 10 Of the range regulation, b.c. reg. 199/2000, in respect of the Territory and animals to which the permit relates, whichever is Greater.
5 Oysters, other molluscs and finfish The use of a defined area for the purpose of seeding, raising and Harvesting oysters, other molluscs and finfish.
$500 per year or $100 per hectare per year, whichever is greater.
6 Communications site The use and occupancy of a defined area for a television, radio, Microwave or other communication structure.
$1 000 per year or $500 per hectare per year plus $100 per Facility per year, whichever is greater.
7 Sand/gravel and quarry site The use of a defined area for the purpose of removing sand, Gravel, rock or other material.
$1 000 per year or $500 per hectare per year plus $100 per Facility per year, whichever is greater.
8 Trapping and trapping cabins The use, by the holder of a registered trapline under the wildlife Act, of a territory allocated for trapping purposes and of cabins, Without an adjacent area, for purposes incidental to the seasonal Operation of a trapline.
Trapping
$100 per year.
Trapping cabins $10 per cabin per year to a maximum of $25 per year.
9 Commercial film production Major shoot The lesser of $50 000 and the sum of the following:
(a) $1 500 per day of filming in each park that is a high-value Film park; (b) $750 per day of preparing, wrapping or holding in each park That is a high-value film park; (c) $400 per day of filming, preparing, wrapping or holding in Each park that is not a high-value film park.
Minor shoot $100.
10 Guide outfitters, transporters and angling guides licensed Pursuant to the Wildlife act (a) the use, by a guide outfitter, transporter or angling Guide, of a territory allocated in conjunction with the activity Of a guide outfitter, transporter or angling guide.
For six consecutive months or less, $125 or $1 per client day, whichever is Greater.
For six consecutive months to one year, $250 or $1 per client day, whichever is greater.
(b) the exclusive use of a structure or structures not Supplied by the province but used in conjunction with the activity Of a guide outfitter, transporter or angling guide:
(i) without a defined adjacent area (site only), or $500 per year (ii) with a defined adjacent area.
Base facilities $500 per year or $1 per client day plus $250 per hectare per year plus $50 per Structure per year, whichever is greater.
Satellite facility $50 per year Tent/spike camp $25 per year Part 5 — interpretation 1 (1) For the purposes of this schedule, (a) Measurements expressed in hectares must be rounded upwards to the next Whole hectare and measurements expressed in square metres or cubic Metres are rounded upwards to the next whole square metre or cubic Metre, and (b) Measurements expressed in square metres of any structure must be based On the outside dimensions including verandahs or porches.
(2) In this schedule:
"base facility" Means a facility that is the main location or one of the main Locations for a commercial or industrial operation; "defined" Means an area specified in the park use permit or resource use permit For which the fee is payable; "high-value film park" Means any of the following parks:
(a) Alice lake park; (b) Brandywine falls park; (c) Coquihalla canyon park; (d) Cultus lake park; (e) Cypress park; (f) E. c. manning park; (g) Elk falls park, excluding the elk falls protected area; (h) Garibaldi park; (i) Golden ears park; (j) Goldstream park; (k) Gordon bay park; (l) Juan de fuca park; (m) Macmillan park; (n) Mount seymour park; (o) Murrin park; (p) Peace arch park; (q) Porteau cove park; (r) Rathtrevor beach park; (s) Sasquatch park; (t) Shannon falls park; (u) Skaha bluffs park; (v) Stawamus chief park, including the stawamus chief protected area; "minor shoot" Means commercial film production with no disturbance of the users or Natural resources of a park, conservancy or recreation area; "non-profit organization" Means a club or association that is a society as defined in the Societies act Or a school board incorporated under the School act , in which the use or activity undertaken is (a) Of demonstrable benefit to the whole community, and (b) Consistent with the approved objectives of the park, conservancy or Recreation area; "satellite facility" Means a facility with one permanent structure, excluding pit toilets, That is used for temporary accommodation, storage of supplies or fuel, Or as an emergency shelter or an improved helicopter landing site; "structure" Means any building or permanent improvement constructed, placed or Established on Park act Lands, excluding pit toilets; "tent/spike camp" Means a site with no permanent improvements or structures used on a Non-exclusive basis for temporary tenting accommodation or the storage Of supplies; "trapping cabin" Means a cabin used for shelter and for storage of trapping supplies on A periodic but temporary basis in conjunction with the operation of a Trapline.
Schedules l and m Repealed. [b.c. reg. 62/99, s. 4.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Park act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 344, s. 29]