B.c. reg. 564/76 O.c. 3135/76 Filed october 25, 1976 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Police act Police (uniforms) regulations [last amended february 28, 2020 by b.c. reg. 40/2020] Interpretation
1 In these regulations:
"executive officer" Means chief constable and deputy chief constable; "medium blue" Means a shade of blue similar to the blue quoted in the dominion Textile folder — "rogue cloth #c1754"; "officer" Means all other ranks; "senior officer" Means all commissioned ranks other than an executive officer; "uniform" Means the basic working uniform worn during a normal tour of duty, but Does not include an administrative, formal or dress uniform.
Application of regulations 2 (1) These regulations apply only to municipal forces established under Section 26 of the Police act , and take effect on october 1, 1976.
(2) These regulations do not apply to uniforms and accessories on order on That day, or in stock or in use on or before that day, but full Compliance is required by october 1, 1979.
Basic uniform 3 (1) The uniform for executive officers (male) shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Jacket design — eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 Patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, gold buttons; (c) Trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear Pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide From waist to cuff.
(2) The uniform for senior officers (male) shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Jacket design — eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 Patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver buttons; (c) Trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear Pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide From waist to cuff.
(3) The uniform for officers (male) shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Jacket design — eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 Patch type breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver buttons; (c) Trouser design — western style slack design, 2 front pockets, 2 rear Pockets, special pockets as required, medium blue stripe 3/4 inch wide From waist to cuff.
(4) The uniform for all ranks (female) shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Jacket design — eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 Patch type pockets, shoulder straps, silver or gold buttons Appropriate to rank; (c) Slack design — western style slack design, pockets as required, medium Blue stripe 3/4 inch wide from waist to cuff; (d) Culottes and (or) skirt design — "a" line style, knee length, one Slash pocket in each side seam.
(5) Shirts or blouses for all ranks shall be medium or navy blue with Shoulder straps of contrasting dark navy blue, 2 breast flap pockets With suitable buttons or snap fasteners.
(6) (a) All ranks shall wear dark navy blue clip on ties.
(b) A person of any rank may remove a tie when the person is (i) Wearing a short sleeved shirt or blouse, as the case may be, and (ii) Not wearing a uniform jacket, patrol jacket or windbreaker.
(7) (a) All ranks (male) shall wear navy blue or black socks.
(b) All ranks (female) shall wear a neutral or navy blue shade of hosiery.
(8) All ranks shall wear black oxfords or boots as directed by the chief Constable.
(9) Handbags, when carried by female ranks, shall be plain black leather With shoulder length strap.
(10) All leather accessories shall be black, of good quality, with the Following description:
(a) Equipment belt — plain finish, 2 1/4 inch wide, fully lined, silver Fasteners;
(b) Holster — plain finish, worn strong side at waist level; (c) Handcuff pouch — plain finish, attached to equipment belt; (d) Ammunition pouch — plain finish, closed style, attached to equipment Belt.
(11) A member (male) of any rank who is a baptized practising member of the Sikh religion may:
(a) Wear under the prescribed uniform a replica of the kirpan; (b) Wear on the wrist a kara (steel bracelet) with a maximum width of 5 Mm;
(c) Wear under the turban a khanga (comb); (d) Keep the hair and beard uncut provided that it is kept neat with the Hair tied in a bun and concealed under the issued turban.
[am. b.c. regs. 20/80, s. 1; 346/93, s. 1; 315/97, s. (a); 40/2020, App. 1, s. 1.] Outer wear 4 (1) Overcoats for all ranks shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Design — military style.
(2) Windbreaker/parka for all ranks shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue; (b) Design —
(i) Windbreaker — front closure, single breasted, hip length, waterproof Shell, 2 patch breast pockets, 2 inside lower pockets, shoulder Straps, silver or gold buttons appropriate to rank, side vents to Allow access to equipment; (ii) Parka — front closure, single breasted, finger tip or longer in Length, waterproof shell, 2 patch breast pockets, 2 patch lower Pockets, 2 inside breast pockets, storm cuffs, waist draw cord, Convertible collar with detachable hood.
(3) Rainwear for all ranks shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue, with reversible side of safety orange when Issued to members on field assignment, but black may be worn by Non-operational members; (b) Design — full length, raglan sleeve, nylon, snap front, 2 side slash Pockets.
(4) Patrol jacket for all ranks shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — nylon, dark navy blue; (b) Design — eisenhower style, single breasted front closing, 2 patch type Breast pockets, shoulder straps, silver or gold buttons appropriate to Rank.
[am. b.c. reg. 20/80, s. 2.] Headgear
5 (1) The headgear of all ranks shall be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue, with black band; (b) Design —
(i) Executive — officer's cap, black peak with gold bar embroidery, gold Buttons, black strap, municipal cap badge in gold; (ii) Senior — officer's cap, black peak with silver bar embroidery, silver Buttons, black strap, municipal cap badge; (iii) Officer — officer's cap, black peak, black buttons, black strap, Municipal cap badge; (iv) Any rank (male) of a baptized practising member of the sikh religion — In place of other headgear described in this paragraph, a turban of The colour specified in paragraph (a), with a municipal cap badge Centred on its front.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 102/89.] (3) The headgear for all ranks while riding a motorcycle shall be a safety Helmet approved by the canadian standards association and shall be White with navy blue trim.
[am. b.c. regs. 102/89; 346/93, s. 2.] Special uniforms 6 Special uniforms, i.e. motorcycle operators, dog handlers, mounted Squad, bicycle squad, emergency response team, marine division, shall Be as follows:
(a) Cloth — dark navy blue, with contrasting stripe of medium blue where Practical;
(b) Design — functional in relation to assignment and subject to the Approval of the director.
[am. b.c. regs. 315/97, s. (b); 40/2020, app. 1, s. 2.] Insignia
7 (1) The following ranks shall wear on their shoulder straps the insignia Described as follows:
(a) chief constable — a single crown above 3 pips, in gold; (b) deputy chief constable — a single crown above 2 pips, in Gold;
(c) superintendent — a single crown above a single pip, in Silver;
(d) staff inspector — a single crown, in silver; (e) inspector — 3 pips, in silver.
(2) The following ranks shall wear on the upper part of each sleeve the Following cloth insignia:
(a) staff sergeant — 3 chevrons and a crown; (b) sergeant — 3 chevrons; (c) corporal — 2 chevrons.
All chevrons will be silver on black.
(3) The following ranks shall wear, on their jacket lapels, badges Depicting the municipal crest or maple leaf; gold for executive Officers and silver for other ranks:
(a) Chief constable; (b) Deputy chief constable; (c) Superintendent;
(d) Staff inspector; (e) Inspector;
(f) Staff sergeant; (g) Sergeant;
(h) Corporal.
(4) Cloth shoulder flashes identifying the municipal force shall be worn On all garments except rainwear; gold for executive officers and Silver for all other ranks.
(5) Design and placement of special badges awarded for special reasons Such as dog handler, marksman, etc., shall be subject to the approval Of the director.
(6) (a) service badges awarded on the basis of one for each 5 years Of service shall be a cloth, 5 pointed star, silver, not larger than 3/4 inch in size, worn on the lower sleeve of the left arm.
(b) A long service ribbon and bar may be worn in place of service badges.
[am. b.c. regs. 404/87, s. 1; 40/2020, app. 1, s. 2.] Identification
8 (1) A badge, metal, plastic or cloth, bearing an identification number or Name, shall be worn above the right breast pocket of all uniform Officers, but the wearing of an identification badge by executive and Senior officers shall be at the discretion of the chief constable.
(2) Pocket badges depicting the municipal crest and suitably marked "police" shall be issued by each municipality.
(3) An identification card, wallet size, white with dark blue printing, Shall be issued to each member and (a) The front side shall (i) Clearly identify the municipality (municipal crest optional), the name Of the police department, and the full name and present rank of the Holder, and shall bear a photograph of the holder, black and white or Colour, in the top right corner and the signature of the chief Constable in the bottom right side, and (ii) In the case of an executive or senior officer, bear the signature of The chairman of the board instead of the chief constable, and (b) The reverse side shall clearly state the date of birth, height, Weight, colour of hair, colour of eyes and blood group of the holder And shall bear the holder's signature and, under the holder's Signature, the following shall appear: the person identified herein is A peace officer appointed under the authority of section 26 of the Police act .
[am. b.c. regs. 601/77; 20/80, s. 3; 404/87, s. 2; 170/2006; 40/2020, App. 1, s. 3.] Miscellaneous
9 Styles and character of administrative, formal or dress uniforms are At the discretion of the chief constable and are subject to the Approval of the director.
[am. b.c. reg. 40/2020, app. 1, s. 2.] Previous regulations repealed 10 These regulations apply to municipal forces as established under Section 26 of the Police act And supersede all previous regulations governing those municipal Forces in matters covered by these regulations, and all such Regulations are repealed.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Police act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 367, s. 74.]