B.c. reg. 104/2004 M62/2004
Deposited march 23, 2004 Effective april 1, 2004 This consolidation is current to february 20, 2024.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2024 For amendments effective after february 20, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Safety standards act Power engineers, boiler, pressure vessel and Refrigeration safety regulation [last amended december 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 255/2022] Definitions for the act 1 For the purposes of the act:
"boiler" Means a vessel in which, by the application of heat, (a) Gas, steam or vapour is capable of being generated and pressurized, or (b) A liquid is capable of being pressurized or heated And includes fittings and boiler external piping associated with the Vessel;
"boiler system" Means a power plant, heating plant, low temperature, low pressure Fluid plant, low pressure thermal fluid plant, high pressure thermal Fluid plant, oil well plant or pressure plant; "power plant" Means a high pressure steam plant or a high pressure thermal fluid Plant or a high temperature, high pressure fluid plant; "pressure piping" Means a system of pipes, tubes, conduits, gaskets, bolts and other Components, the sole purpose of which is the conveyance of (a) An expansible fluid, or (b) A non-expansible fluid or thermal fluid with an operating temperature Exceeding 121°c or a working pressure exceeding 1 100 kpa Between 2 or more points; "pressure vessel" Means a vessel and its fittings, other than a boiler, that is capable Of being used to contain, store, distribute, transfer, distil, process Or otherwise handle gas, vapour or liquids under pressure; "refrigeration equipment" Means machinery in which refrigerants are capable of being vaporized, Compressed and liquefied; "refrigeration system" Means a refrigeration plant.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 9; 252/2016, s. 1; 45/2017, sch. 1, s. 1; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 1.] Definitions and interpretation for this regulation 2 (1) In this regulation:
"act" Means the Safety standards act ; "antique show boiler" Means a boiler forming part of a traction engine, threshing machine, Steam locomotive, steam crane, donkey boiler plant or other plant of Historical interest; "assistant chief engineer" Means a power engineer who (a) Is employed in a plant to assist the chief engineer, (b) Holds a certificate of qualification not less than one class lower Than that required to operate the plant as the chief engineer, and (c) Is placed in charge of the plant when the chief engineer is absent From the plant; "assistant engineer" Means the power engineer who is a person in charge of a part of a Plant under the supervision of the shift engineer, and includes a Maintenance engineer; "assistant shift engineer" Means the power engineer who is under the immediate supervision of the Shift engineer and assists the shift engineer with the supervision, Operation or control of the plant; "boiler capacity" Means the heat receiving surface of a boiler as specified in Section 46;
"brazing" Has the same meaning as in csa b51; "canadian credential" Has the same meaning as in section 1.1 of the safety standards general Regulation;
"chemical recovery boiler" Means a boiler that is capable of being fuelled by the black liquor That results from the kraft pulp manufacturing process; "chief engineer" Means a power engineer who is designated by the owner to be Responsible for the operation and maintenance of a plant and who is Responsible for ensuring that all regulated work in the plant is Performed by appropriately qualified persons; "code" Means the applicable code or standard referred to in the schedule and Adopted under this regulation; "control system" Means an electronic, digital, pneumatic or other system that compares The process variable to a set point and automatically adjusts the Input signal to the final control device; "csa b51" Means csa standard b51 boiler, pressure vessel and pressure piping Code;
"csa b52" Means csa standard b52 mechanical refrigeration code; "cushion tank" Means a pressure vessel designed for installation in a heating plant Or cooling system to provide a pneumatic cushion for the expansion or Contraction of the fluid; "electric boiler" Means a boiler heated by electricity; "engineering degree" Means a degree in mechanical engineering that (a) Is awarded following completion of an undergraduate engineering Program accredited by the canadian engineering accreditation board, or (b) Is otherwise acceptable to a provincial safety manager under this Regulation;
"expansible fluid" Means any (a) Vapour,
(b) Gaseous substance, or (c) Liquid under pressure and at a temperature at which the liquid changes To a gas or vapour when the pressure is reduced to atmospheric Pressure or when the temperature increases to ambient temperature; "fifth class plant" Means
(a) A power plant that exceeds 10 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 50 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (b) A steam heating plant that exceeds 30 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (c) A fluid heating plant that exceeds 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (d) A low pressure thermal fluid plant that exceeds 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (e) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that exceeds 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (f) An unfired plant that exceeds 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity; "first class plant" Means a power plant that exceeds 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity; "fitting" Means a valve, gauge, regulating or controlling device, flange, pipe Fitting, nozzle or other component that is attached to or forms part Of a boiler, a pressure vessel, a pressure piping system or Refrigeration equipment, but does not include pressure piping on a Pressure vessel; "fluid heating plant" Means a heating plant that heats fluid without vaporizing the fluid; "fourth class plant" Means
(a) A power plant that exceeds 50 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 100 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (b) A heating plant that exceeds 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (c) A low pressure thermal fluid plant that exceeds 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 1 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (d) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that exceeds 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (e) An unfired plant that exceeds 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity; "fuel cut-off device" Means any device that has a manual reset and which will cut off fuel To the boiler burner when activated by a safety device; "general supervision status plant" Means a plant for which the supervision of boilers, pressure vessels Or refrigeration equipment is carried out in accordance with the Requirements set out in section 55 and the technical and Administrative specifications required by a provincial safety manager; "heat exchanger" Means a vessel other than a boiler where heat is transferred, either Directly or indirectly, from one medium to another; "heating plant" Means
(a) A boiler in which steam or other vapour may be generated at a pressure Not exceeding 103 kpa, or (b) A boiler, other than a low-temperature, low-pressure boiler, in which Water or an aqueous solution may be heated to a pressure not exceeding 1 100 kpa or a temperature not exceeding 121°c; "heating surface" Means the surface area of a boiler or pressure vessel that transfers Heat, as determined under section 46; "high pressure steam plant" Means an assembly of one or more boilers and includes ancillary Equipment, the pressure piping system and a pressure plant, in which Steam or vapour is generated at a pressure greater than 103 kpa; "high pressure thermal fluid plant" Means an assembly of one or more thermal fluid boilers, but does not Include a low pressure thermal fluid plant, and includes ancillary Equipment, a pressure piping system and a pressure plant connected to An assembly of thermal fluid boilers; "high temperature, high pressure fluid plant" Means an assembly of one or more boilers and includes ancillary Equipment, a pressure piping system and a pressure plant, in which Liquid is heated to a temperature greater than 121°c or liquid is Contained at a pressure greater than 1 100 kpa; "hydraulic or hydraulic purposes" Means equipment that uses an incompressible fluid under pressure to Generate and transmit power by converting energy from liquid pressure Into mechanical energy; "ice facility plant" Means a refrigeration plant used to make and maintain an artificial Ice surface that is used for recreational purposes; "institution" Means premises in which persons are confined to receive medical, Charitable, educational or other care or treatment, or in which Persons are held or detained; "interim power engineer's certificate of qualification" Means a certificate issued under section 27 for a specific plant Operation;
"low pressure thermal fluid plant" Means an assembly of one or more thermal fluid boilers that do not Contain an expansible fluid and are protected with temperature control And safety devices that will not permit the boilers to continue to Operate should the temperature rise to or above the vapour point of The contained thermal fluid at atmospheric pressure; "low temperature, low pressure fluid plant" Means an assembly of one or more boilers, including ancillary Equipment, that contain liquid and operate at a working pressure of 206 kpa or less and a temperature of 100°c or less; "maintenance engineer" Means a power engineer employed in the maintenance of a plant or Associated auxiliary equipment; "marine engineer (motor) certificate of competency" Means a credential issued by transport canada that provides evidence Of an individual's level of competence with respect to marine motor Systems;
"oil well plant" Means a high pressure steam plant that is used in the operation of a Drilling rig or drilling operation; "person in charge" Means the power engineer, operator or other individual present on the Premises during a period of time, and designated by the owner or chief Engineer to be responsible for and in control of the plant while it is In operation; "plant" Means a power plant, heating plant, low temperature, low pressure Fluid plant, low pressure thermal fluid plant, high pressure thermal Fluid plant, refrigeration plant, oil well plant, unfired plant or Pressure plant; "power engineer" Means an individual who holds a final or interim certificate of Qualification issued under section 13, 15, 17, 19, 23, 28 or 29; "power engineer trainee" Means an individual who has received training and who assists in the Operation of a plant but does not hold a certificate of qualification; "pressure" Means gauge pressure; for the purposes of this regulation, 103 kpa is Equivalent to 15 psi; "pressure plant" Means an assembly of one or more pressure vessels and includes the Engines, turbines, pressure piping systems, fittings, machinery and Ancillary equipment of any kind used in connection with it or them; "pressure vessel plant" Means a pressure plant that is not connected to a boiler plant or Refrigeration plant; "pressure welder" Means an individual who holds a pressure welder's certificate of Qualification issued under section 42; "pressure welding" Has the same meaning as "welding" in csa b51; "professional engineer" Means a person registered under the Engineers and geoscientists act As a professional engineer; "public assembly occupancy premises" Means premises in which persons congregate for civic, political, Educational, religious, social or recreational purposes; "refrigerant" Means a fluid that absorbs heat at a low temperature and pressure, With a change in state, and rejects it at a higher temperature and Pressure;
"refrigerant group" Means the classification of one or more refrigerants into risk Categories based on flammability and toxicity as defined in csa b52; "refrigeration mechanic" Means a person who holds any of the following:
(a) A certificate of qualification, issued under the Skilled trades bc act , as a refrigeration and air conditioning mechanic; (b) An interprovincial red seal credential in the trade of refrigeration And air-conditioning mechanic; (c) A credential acceptable to a provincial safety manager; "refrigeration plant" Means an assembly of refrigeration equipment and includes a pressure Plant connected to it; "risk assessed status plant" Means a plant for which the supervision of boilers, pressure vessels Or refrigeration equipment is done in accordance with the requirements Set out in section 56 and the technical and administrative Specifications required by a provincial safety manager; "second class plant" Means a power plant that exceeds 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity; "shift engineer" Means a power engineer who is a person in charge of a plant under the Supervision of a chief engineer or one who is in charge of a plant When the chief engineer is absent; "steam heating plant" Means a heating plant that generates steam or vapour; "thermal fluid" Means fluids other than water or aqueous solutions that transfer heat With or without vaporization; "thermal fluid boiler" Means a boiler, including fittings and appurtenances, in which a Liquid hydrocarbon, hot oil or other thermal fluid other than water is Heated with or without the occurrence of vaporization; "thermal fluid plant" Means an assembly of one or more thermal fluid boilers and includes a Pressure plant that is connected to the assembly of boilers; "third class plant" Means
(a) A power plant that exceeds 100 m 2 Of boiler capacity but does not exceed 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (b) A low pressure thermal fluid plant that exceeds 1 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (c) An unfired plant that exceeds 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity; "unfired boiler" Means a pressure vessel in which gas, steam or vapour may be generated For use external to the boiler by the application of heat resulting From something other than the combustion of fuel; "unfired plant" Means a plant where heat from gas, steam or vapour or other heating Medium is supplied to heat exchangers or used directly for the purpose Of heating a facility or a process without combustion of a solid, Liquid or gaseous fuel taking place on the premises; "water heater" Means a vessel heated by the combustion of fuel, electricity or any Other source for supplying potable hot water at pressures not Exceeding 1 103 kpa and temperatures not exceeding 98.9°c.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation 1 square metre (m 2 ) is equivalent to 10.76 square feet (ft 2 ).
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 1; 134/2009, s. 10; 46/2010, s.
1; 113/2015, s. 1; 252/2016, s. 2; 45/2017, Sch. 1, s. 2 and sch. 4, s. 1; 170/2018, sch. 2,  s.  2; 255/2022, sch.
3, s. 1.] Application of this regulation 3 (1) This regulation applies in respect of every boiler and boiler plant, Every pressure plant, every pressure vessel, every pressure piping System, every fitting, every plant and all refrigeration equipment and Refrigeration plants.
(2) Despite subsection (1), this regulation does not apply to any of the Following:
(a) A power plant with a heating surface of 2 m 2 Or less; (b) A heating plant with a heating surface of 3 m 2 Or less; (c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 11 (a).] (d) A low pressure thermal fluid plant with a heating surface of 3 m 2 Or less; (e) A heating plant that has no valves or other obstruction to prevent Circulation of fluid between the boiler and an expansion tank that is Fully vented to the atmosphere; (f) A heating plant, refrigeration plant or pressure vessel plant, other Than plants with toxic or flammable contents, that is located in a Building that contains only 4 or fewer self-contained residential Units;
(g) A pressure vessel operating at and with relief valves set at a Pressure of 103 kpa or less; (h) A pressure vessel not equipped with heating element that is Constructed for the storage of water at a temperature of 65°c or less And a pressure of 1 720 kpa or less or has a diameter of 610 Mm or less; (i) A pressure vessel used for hydraulic purposes having an operating Temperature of less than 82°c, if the primary design considerations Are mechanical in nature and stresses are derived from the functional Requirements of the device rather than fluid pressure; (j) A refrigeration plant with a capacity of less than 5 kw prime mover Nameplate rating; (k) A cushion tank with a diameter of 610 mm or less that is constructed To operate at a working pressure of 207 kpa or less; (l) A distribution main or service pipe as defined in the gas safety Regulation;
(m) Piping and fittings external to the boiler proper in a low Temperature, low pressure fluid plant or a heating plant; (n) A pressure piping system operating at and with a relief valve or Valves set at 103 kpa or less; (o) A water heater with a heat input of 120 kw or less; (p) A boiler or pressure vessel subject to the jurisdiction of transport Canada under the Transportation of dangerous goods act (canada) or a boiler or pressure vessel subject to the Canadian shipping act ; (q) Gas-insulated switchgear and control gear used for control of high Voltage electricity; (r) Refrigeration equipment used for air conditioning or refrigerated Compartments on railway cars, motor vehicles, motor-drawn vehicles, Aircraft or ships; (s) Air or hydraulic brake systems subject to the motor vehicle safety Regulations under the Motor vehicle safety act (canada); (t) Air or hydraulic brake or steering systems for off road vehicles; (u) Penstocks;
(v) Domestic water piping systems used in buildings or other structures; (w) Medical gas piping systems.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 104/2004, s. 3 (4).] (4) Subsection (3) is repealed on april 1, 2014.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 11; 45/2017, sch. 1, s. 3; 170/2018, sch.
2, s. 3.] Relation to the safety standards general regulation 3.1 This regulation is subject to the safety standards general regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 12.] Adoption of codes and standards 4 Each code or standard and portion of a code or standard as listed in The schedule is adopted.
[en. b.c. reg. 50/2007, sch. 2, s. 1.] Part 1 — general qualification and licensing provisions Division 1 — individuals who may perform regulated work under this Regulation
Individuals who may perform regulated work 5 (1) An individual must not perform regulated work unless the individual (a) Holds a valid certificate of qualification issued under this Regulation,
(b) Performs regulated work in accordance with section 5 of the safety Standards general regulation, (c) Is specifically authorized in this regulation, or (d) Has been exempted from any specified authorization requirement under This regulation.
(2) An individual must not perform maintenance and repairs on a Refrigeration plant unless the individual (a) Holds a fourth class power engineer's certificate of qualification or Higher, or (b) Is a refrigeration mechanic.
(3) An individual must not do pressure welding relating to regulated Products under this regulation (a) Unless the individual holds a pressure welder's certificate of Qualification, and (b) Except in accordance with csa b51.
(4) An individual must not do brazing relating to regulated products under This regulation except in accordance with csa b51.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 4.] Exemption from certification requirement to operate certain equipment 6 An individual is not required to hold a certificate of qualification To operate any of the following:
(a) A power plant not exceeding 10 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (b) A steam heating plant not exceeding 30 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (c) A fluid heating plant not exceeding 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (d) A low pressure thermal fluid plant not exceeding 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (e) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant not exceeding 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (f) An unfired plant not exceeding 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (g) An indirect refrigeration plant, as defined in csa b52, using Refrigerant r 11 and all other refrigeration plants with refrigerant Groups a1, a2 or b1, as defined in csa b52, not exceeding a total Plant capacity of 200 kw prime mover nameplate rating; (h) A refrigeration plant with refrigerant groups a3, b2 or b3, as defined In csa b52, not exceeding a total plant capacity of 50 kw prime mover Nameplate rating; (i) An electric boiler that consumes 100 kw or less in a power plant; (j) A process (i) In a petroleum refinery other than in a power plant that is part of The petroleum refinery, and (ii) If the heat for the process is generated as a result of a reaction That is part of the process or burning; (k) A pressure vessel plant; (l) A low pressure thermal fluid plant with a boiler capacity greater than 150 m 2 If the plant is equipped with an automated control system that (i) Monitors performance of the plant, including all systems related to Automated operation, and automatically alters the operation of the Plant to ensure it is operating safely, including during start up and Shut down operations, (ii) Is designed so that any failure of the automated control system will Cause the plant to go to a predetermined safe state, and (iii) Has been registered by a provincial safety manager in accordance with Section 84.1.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 13; 46/2010, s. 2; 170/2018, sch. 2, s.
5.] Division 2 — certificates of qualification Certificate of qualification 7 (1) The following classes of certificates of qualification are Established:
(a) First class power engineer; (b) Second class power engineer; (c) Third class power engineer; (d) Fourth class power engineer; (e) Fifth class power engineer; (f) Refrigeration operator; (g) Category "a" interim power engineer; (h) Category "b" interim power engineer; (i) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 14 (c).] (j) Oil well boiler operator; (k) Antique show boiler operator; (l) Ice facility operator; (m) Boiler safety awareness; (n) Refrigeration safety awareness; (o) Class "a" pressure welder; (p) Class "it" pressure welder; (q) Class "r" pressure welder.
(2) If an applicant for a certificate of qualification is required under This regulation to have employment experience as a condition of Certification, the applicant must provide a signed, written statement From the chief engineer of the plant in which the applicant is Employed, that (a) Sets out in detail the qualifying time, experience, knowledge and Qualifications of the applicant, and (b) Describes the plant in which the applicant is employed, including the Boiler capacity and types of equipment in the plant.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), if there is no chief engineer, the Statement may be provided by the owner of the plant.
(4) For the purposes of this section, a provincial safety manager may Recognize equivalent training and experience that an applicant has Gained from a jurisdiction other than british columbia, subject to an Examination of the applicant, as counting toward the requirements to Obtain a corresponding certificate of qualification issued under this Regulation.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 14; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 6 and sch. 4, s.
1.] Repealed
8 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 15.] Marine engineer (steam) certificate of competency 9 (1) In this section, "marine engineer (steam) certificate of competency" Means a credential issued by transport canada that provides evidence Of an individual's level of competence with respect to steam Propulsion systems.
(2) An individual who holds a marine engineer (steam) certificate of Competency may be issued a power engineer's certificate of Qualification for the purposes of the act of one class lower than the Class for which the person holds the certificate of competency if (a) The individual presents the certificate of competency to a provincial Safety manager, and (b) The individual provides evidence, acceptable to a provincial safety Manager, of the work experience and other qualifications that are Required to obtain a power engineer's certificate of qualification of That lower class.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 16; am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 7.] Repealed
10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 17.] Duties of certain engineers and operators 11 (1) A power engineer must thoroughly inspect every boiler, pressure Vessel, pressure piping system, fuel system, fitting and ancillary Equipment as soon as practical after the start of the shift.
(2) While a plant is in operation, a power engineer, an ice facility Operator, an oil well boiler operator, an antique show boiler operator Or a refrigeration operator who is authorized to be in charge of a Shift for the type and size of plant as specified in the scope of each Certificate of qualification, must be present (a) In the plant boiler room, refrigeration machinery room or engine or Turbine room, or (b) In the immediate vicinity within the plant premises.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 8.] Repealed
12 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 17.] Application for first class power engineer's certificate of Qualification
13 (1) An applicant for a first class power engineer's certificate of Qualification must hold a second class power engineer's certificate of Qualification or a corresponding canadian credential, and have been Employed, while in possession of that certificate or credential, for a Period of not less than (a) 30 months as chief engineer of a second class plant, (b) 30 months as an assistant chief engineer of a first class plant, (c) 36 months as a safety officer for the purposes of this regulation, (d) 30 months as shift engineer of a first class plant, or (e) 45 months as an assistant shift engineer of a first class plant.
(2) If an applicant has successfully completed a first class power Engineering course that has been approved by a provincial safety Manager, the required periods of employment referred to in subsection (1) are reduced by 12 months.
(3) If an applicant holds an engineering degree, the required period of Employment for the positions and types of plants set out in subsection (1) is 12 months.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 18; 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 2; 170/2018, sch.
2, s. 9.] Repealed
14 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 19.] Application for second class power engineer's certificate of Qualification
15 (1) An applicant for a second class power engineer's certificate of Qualification must (a) Hold a first class marine engineer (motor) certificate of competency, Or
(b) Hold a third class power engineer's certificate of qualification or a Corresponding canadian credential, and have been employed, while in Possession of that certificate or credential, for a period of not less Than
(i) 24 months as chief engineer of a third class plant that is a power Plant,
(ii) 24 months as a shift engineer or as an assistant chief engineer of a Second class plant, or (iii) 24 months as an assistant shift engineer or an assistant engineer Performing duties, approved by a provincial safety manager, at a first Class plant.
(iv) to (vi) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 20 (a).] (2) If an applicant has successfully completed a second class power Engineering course that has been approved by a provincial safety Manager, the required periods of employment referred to in subsection (1) (b) (i) to (iii) are reduced by 9 months.
(3) If an applicant holds an engineering degree, the required periods of Employment for the positions and types of plants set out in subsection (1) (b) (i) to (v) are reduced by 12 months.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 2; 134/2009, s. 20; 45/2017, Sch. 4, s. 3; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 10.] Repealed
16 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 21.] Application for third class power engineer's certificate of Qualification
17 (1) An applicant for a third class power engineer's certificate of Qualification must (a) Hold a marine engineer (motor) certificate of competency of second Class or higher, or (b) Hold a fourth class power engineer's certificate of qualification or a Corresponding canadian credential, and have been employed, while in Possession of that certificate or credential, for a period of not less Than
(i) 12 months as a power engineer in a position requiring a fourth class Power engineer's certificate of qualification in a power plant that is Fourth class plant, third class plant, second class plant or first Class plant, (ii) 24 months as a chief engineer or shift engineer of a fourth class Heating plant or a fourth class power plant, or (iii) 36 months as (a) A chief engineer or shift engineer of a fourth class plant other than A power plant or a heating plant, or (b) A shift engineer of a third class plant other than a power plant or a Heating plant.
(iv) to (vi) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 22 (a).] (2) If an applicant has successfully completed a third class power Engineering course that has been approved by a provincial safety Manager, the required periods of employment referred to in subsection (1) (b) (i) to (iii) are reduced by 6 months.
(3) If an applicant holds an engineering degree, the required periods of Employment for the positions and types of plants set out in subsection (1) (b) (i) to (iii) are reduced by 6 months.
(4) Despite subsection (1) (b), an individual may apply for a third class Power engineer's certificate of qualification if the individual (a) Holds a diploma issued after completing a 2 year full time day program In third class power engineering that has been approved by a Provincial safety manager, and (b) Has been employed for at least 6 months in a power plant that has a Boiler capacity of not less than 100 m 2 .
(5) A one-time 3 month credit towards the qualifying time requirement Specified in subsection (4) (b) will be granted to applicants who have Received boiler plant computer simulation training at an educational Or vocational facility approved by a provincial safety manager.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 3; 134/2009, s. 22; 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 4; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 11.] Repealed
18 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 23.] Application for fourth class power engineer's certificate of Qualification
19 (1) An applicant for a fourth class power engineer's certificate of Qualification must (a) Hold a marine engineer (motor) certificate of competency of third Class or higher, or (b) Have completed a fourth class power engineering course approved by a Provincial safety manager or be the holder of an engineering degree, And have been employed (i) For a period of not less than 6 months as a power engineer in a fifth Class plant in a position requiring a fifth class power engineer's Certificate of qualification, (ii) For a period of not less than 6 months as a power engineer trainee in (a) A power plant that exceeds 10 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (b) A steam heating plant that exceeds 30 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (c) A fluid heating plant or low pressure thermal fluid plant that exceeds 150 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (d) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that exceeds 300 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (iii) For a period of at least 18 months acquiring experience acceptable to The provincial safety manager in the operation, design, construction, Repair or maintenance of equipment to which this regulation applies, Or would apply, if the equipment was located in british columbia, and Have successfully completed a fourth class power engineering course That has been approved by that provincial safety manager or provide Proof of having an equivalent technical educational background that is Approved by that provincial safety manager.
(2) And (3) repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 24 (f).] (4) Despite subsection (1), a fourth class power engineer's certificate of Qualification may be issued to an individual who holds a certificate Issued after completing a one year full time day program in fourth Class power engineering that has been approved by a provincial safety Manager.
(5) A one-time 6 month credit towards the qualifying time requirement Specified in subsection (1) (b) will be granted to applicants who have Received boiler plant power lab training at an educational or Vocational facility approved by a provincial safety manager.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 4; 134/2009, s. 24; 45/2017, sch.
4, s. 5; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 12; 184/2019, s. (a).] What a first, second, third or fourth class power engineer may do 20 (1) A first, second, third and fourth class power engineer's certificate Of qualification entitles the holder to be (a) Chief engineer of a plant with a corresponding or lower class, (b) Shift engineer of a plant up to one class higher than the class of the Certificate, or (c) A person in charge of any type or size of refrigeration plant.
(2) The holder of any class of power engineer's certificate of Qualification may perform the duties authorized for the holder of a Power engineer's certificate of qualification of a lower Classification.
(3) An individual who holds a power engineer's certificate of Qualification that is one class lower than that required for (a) Chief engineer of a plant may act as an assistant chief engineer of The plant, or (b) Shift engineer of a plant may act as an assistant shift engineer of The plant.
(4) An individual who holds any class of power engineer's certificate of Qualification may act as an assistant engineer.
[en. b.c. 134/2009, s. 25.] Fourth class or higher engineer may do limited electrical work 21 The holder of a valid power engineer's certificate of qualification of 4th class or higher issued under the act may, while employed by a Licensed boiler or refrigeration contractor or working under an Operating permit and without requiring any additional authorization, Do any of the following with respect to electrical equipment that is Part of a plant:
(a) Connect branch circuit wiring to the boiler equipment integral Connection box from a junction box or disconnect mounted in close Proximity to the boiler equipment; (b) Perform work on class 2 circuit wiring up to a rated output of 100 Volt amps; (c) Perform work on low voltage controls or 24 volt thermostats; (d) Perform work on three phase motors or controllers integral to the Boiler equipment.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 5.] Limited regulated gas work by power engineers 22 (1) The chief power engineer of a first or second class plant may, for the Purposes of carrying out maintenance and repairs on a boiler, shut off And place back into service the gas system of the plant including, but Not limited to, downstream of the service meter up to and including The burners.
(2) The chief power engineer of a third or fourth class plant may, for the Purpose of carrying out maintenance on a boiler, disconnect the gas Line to a boiler, up to and including the burners, and reconnect the Line once the maintenance is complete.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 6.] Fifth class power engineer's certificate of qualification 23 An applicant for a fifth class power engineer's certificate of Qualification must either (a) Be the holder of a marine engineer (motor) certificate of competency, Or
(b) Have
(i) Either successfully completed a fifth-class power engineering course Approved by a provincial safety manager or provided proof of having an Equivalent technical educational background approved by a provincial Safety manager, and (ii) Either
(a) Experience for a period of not less than 4 months as a power engineer Trainee in a plant that is fifth class or higher, or (b) Experience, acceptable to a provincial safety manager, for a period of Not less than 6 months in the design, construction, repair, operation Or maintenance of equipment to which this regulation applies, or would Apply, if the equipment was located in british columbia.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 26; am. b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 6.] What a fifth class power engineer may do 24 A fifth class power engineer's certificate of qualification entitles The holder to be (a) A chief engineer of fifth class plant, or (b) A shift engineer of a fourth class plant.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 27.] Refrigeration operator's certificate of qualification 25 (1) An applicant for a refrigeration operator's certificate of Qualification must (a) Have
(i) Successfully completed a refrigeration operator's course, approved by A provincial safety manager, or provided proof of having an equivalent Technical educational background that has been approved by a Provincial safety manager, and (ii) Been employed for a period of not less than 6 months assisting in the Operation of a refrigeration plant that uses (a) Group a3, b2 or b3 refrigerants and has a capacity of more than 25 kw Of prime mover name plate rating, or (b) Group a1, a2 or b1 refrigerants and has a capacity of more than 125 kw Of prime mover name plate rating, or (b) Be a refrigeration mechanic.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 28 (c).] [am. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 28.] What a refrigeration operator may do 26 A refrigeration operator's certificate of qualification entitles the Holder to be a person in charge of any type and size of refrigeration Plant.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 29.] Interim certificates of qualification 27 (1) A provincial safety manager may, subject to sections 28 and 29, issue An interim power engineer's certificate of qualification to a power Engineer of any class.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 13 (a).] (3) An interim certificate of qualification issued under subsection (1) Entitles the holder to perform duties for the limited period of time Set out on the certificate.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 13.] Application for category "a" interim power engineer's certificate of Qualification
28 (1) Subject to section 7 (2) and (3) of this regulation, the chief Engineer of a plant, or, if there is no chief engineer, the owner of a Plant, may apply for a category "a" interim power engineer certificate Of qualification on behalf of a power engineer who holds a power Engineer's certificate of qualification that is one class lower than That required for the relevant position and who has been employed in The plant or an equivalent plant for a period of at least 12 months if (a) The boiler capacity of the plant is increased, or (b) The power engineer employed in the plant needs more time, because of a Reason acceptable to a provincial safety manager, to prepare for any Required examinations.
(2) A category "a" interim power engineer's certificate of qualification Is in force for not more than 12 months from the date of issue.
(3) Despite subsection (2), on application by the owner or chief engineer Of a plant, a category "a" interim power engineer's certificate of Qualification issued to a power engineer in that plant, who has Attempted to pass an examination during the time the interim Certificate is in force, may be renewed by a provincial safety manager Once only, for a period that does not exceed 12 months.
Application for category "b" interim power engineer's certificate of Qualification
29 (1) The chief engineer of a plant, or, if there is no chief engineer, the Owner of a plant, may apply for a category "b" interim power Engineer's certificate of qualification on behalf of a power engineer Who has been employed in the plant or an equivalent plant for a period Of at least 12 months if there are special circumstances in the Plant such as illness, extended vacations or emergencies.
(2) The power engineer referred to in subsection (1) must hold a Certificate of qualification one class lower than the interim Certificate applied for and the application must be approved by a Provincial safety manager.
(3) A category "b" interim power engineer's certificate of qualification Is in force for no more than 60 days from the date of issue.
(4) Despite subsection (3), on application by the owner or chief engineer Of a plant, a category "b" interim power engineer's certificate of Qualification issued to a power engineer in that plant may be renewed By a provincial safety manager once only, for a period that does not Exceed 30 days.
Repealed
30 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 30.] Application procedure for an oil well boiler operator's certificate of Qualification
31 An applicant for an oil well boiler operator's certificate of Qualification must (a) Have passed the oil well boiler operator certificate of qualification Examination, and (b) Either
(i) Be employed at, and have experience in the operation of, an oil well Plant for a period of not less than 6 months, or (ii) Have successfully completed an oil well boiler operator's course that Has been approved by a provincial safety manager.
[en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 31.] What an oil well boiler operator may do 32 The holder of an oil well boiler operator's certificate of Qualification may operate a power plant that (a) Is operating on a portable oil rig or drilling site, and (b) Does not exceed 100 m 2 Of boiler capacity.
(c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 14 (c).] [en. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 32; am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s.
14.] Application for antique show boiler operator's certificate of Qualification
33 An applicant for an antique show boiler operator's certificate of Qualification must (a) Be the owner of, or be designated in writing by the owner to be Responsible for the operation and maintenance of, an antique show Boiler,
(b) Provide evidence, satisfactory to a provincial safety manager, that The applicant has experience with the construction, repair, operation And maintenance of antique show boilers, and (c) Satisfy a safety officer that the applicant has a thorough knowledge Of the (i) Operation of the plant for which the applicant is responsible, and (ii) Duties and responsibilities of a plant operator.
What an antique show boiler operator may do 34 An antique show boiler operator's certificate of qualification Entitles the holder to operate the antique show boiler named on the Certificate.
[am. b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 33.] Application for ice facility operator's certificate of qualification 35 An applicant for an ice facility operator's certificate of Qualification must (a) Be employed at, and have experience in the operation of, an ice Facility plant for a period of not less than 30 days, (b) Have successfully completed an ice facility operator's course that has Been approved by a provincial safety manager, and (c) Have passed the ice facility operator's certificate of qualification Examination.
What an ice facility operator may do 36 An ice facility operator's certificate of qualification entitles the Holder to operate an ice facility plant that (a) Does not exceed 1 000 kw prime mover nameplate rating, and (b) Has, as the person in charge of the plant, a refrigeration operator or A power engineer of fourth class or higher.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 34; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 15.] Application for boiler safety awareness certificate of qualification 37 An applicant for a boiler safety awareness certificate of Qualification must (a) Have passed the boiler safety awareness certificate examination, and (b) Have completed a basic boiler plant safety program or other technical Course approved by a provincial safety manager.
(c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 16 (c).] [am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 16.] What the holder of a boiler safety awareness certificate of Qualification may do 38 (1) A boiler safety awareness certificate of qualification entitles the Holder to monitor a boiler in any of the following kinds of plants:
(a) A power plant that has a boiler capacity that does not exceed 30 m 2 ; (b) A steam heating plant that does not exceed 200 m 2 Boiler capacity; (c) A fluid heating plant or low pressure thermal fluid plant that does Not exceed 500 m 2 Boiler capacity; (d) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that does not exceed 2 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity; (e) An unfired plant that does not exceed 1 000 m 2 Boiler capacity.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the holder of a boiler safety Awareness certificate of qualification must be in attendance at the Plant in order to monitor the boiler.
(3) The holder of a boiler safety awareness certificate of qualification Is permitted to shut down the plant or initiate safety procedures only If specifically trained and assigned to perform those tasks.
(4) Without limiting subsection (3), the holder of a boiler safety Awareness certificate of qualification must, before performing any Task referred to in this section, be trained by the person in charge Of the plant in safety procedures for that plant.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 35; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 17.] Application for refrigeration safety awareness certificate of Qualification
39 An applicant for a refrigeration safety awareness certificate of Qualification must (a) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 18.] (b) Successfully complete a basic refrigeration plant safety program or Other technical course approved by a provincial safety manager, and (c) Have passed the refrigeration safety awareness certificate of Qualification examination.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 18.] What a refrigeration safety awareness certificate of qualification Holder may do 40 (1) A refrigeration safety awareness certificate of qualification entitles The holder to be in attendance to monitor a general supervision or Risk assessed status refrigeration plant with a total plant capacity Of 1 000 kw or less prime mover nameplate rating.
(2) The holder of a refrigeration safety awareness certificate of Qualification is not permitted to operate or perform any repairs to The refrigeration plant but is permitted to shut down the plant or Initiate safety procedures when specifically trained and assigned to Perform such tasks.
(3) Without limiting subsection (2), the holder of a refrigeration safety Awareness certificate of qualification must, before performing any Task referred to in this section, be trained by the person in charge Of the refrigeration plant in safety procedures for that plant.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 19.] Application for pressure welder's certificate of qualification 41 (1) In this section:
"red seal credential" Means an interprovincial red seal credential in the trade of welding; "skilledtradesbc" Means the corporation continued under section 2 (1) of the Skilled trades bc act .
(2) An applicant for a class "a" or "it" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification must (a) Meet the applicable conditions for qualification as set out in this Section, and (b) Have successfully completed a performance qualification test that (i) Is acceptable to a provincial safety manager, and (ii) Conforms to the requirements of csa b51.
(3) An applicant for a class "a" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification must hold one of the following:
(a) A bc welder certificate issued by skilledtradesbc and endorsed with a Red seal credential; (b) A bc welder level a or b certificate issued by skilledtradesbc; (c) A welder trade qualification endorsed with a red seal credential by an Apprenticeship authority in another jurisdiction of canada.
(4) An applicant for a class "it" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification must be a welding apprentice who (a) Is registered with skilledtradesbc or an apprenticeship authority in Another jurisdiction of canada, and (b) Has completed level 2 of the apprenticeship program.
(5) An applicant for a class "r" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification must (a) Hold a valid qualification as a welder in accordance with csa b51, and (b) Provide to a provincial safety manager proof that the applicant is Employed as a pressure welder by a licensed contractor.
[en. b.c. regs. 170/2018, sch. 4, s. 2; 255/2022, sch. 3, s. 2.] What a pressure welder may do 42 (1) The holder of a class "a" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification may perform pressure welding for a licensed contractor.
(2) The holder of a class "it" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification may perform pressure welding for a licensed contractor While under the supervision of a person who (a) Holds a class "a" pressure welder's certificate of qualification, and (b) Is employed by the licensed contractor.
(3) The holder of a class "r" pressure welder's certificate of Qualification may perform pressure welding for the licensed contractor Named on the certificate for a period of up to 6 months from the date The certificate is issued, as stated on the certificate.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 4, s. 2.] Posting and proof of certificates 43 (1) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 4, s. 3.] (2) A holder of a certificate of qualification issued under this Regulation must carry, at all times while performing regulated work, Proof acceptable to a provincial safety manager of the holder's Certification.
[am. b.c. regs. 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 7; 170/2018, sch. 4, s. 3.] Certificates of qualification having no expiry date 43.1 A certificate of qualification issued under this regulation that does Not have an expiry date specified on the certificate is not valid.
[en. b.c. reg. 45/2017, s. (e).] Transition — pressure welder certificates of qualification 43.2 A person who, on december 3, 2019, holds a pressure welder certificate Of qualification is deemed to hold a class "a" pressure welder Certificate of qualification until the earliest of the following Dates:
(a) The date on which the person is issued a class "a" pressure welder Certificate of qualification; (b) The date on which the person's pressure welder certificate of Qualification is revoked; (c) December 3, 2020.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 4, s. 4.] Division 3 — plant classifications Plant classifications 44 (1) A plant classification referred to in this regulation requires a power Engineer with a corresponding or higher class of certificate of Qualification to be appointed as chief engineer of that plant.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a plant is classified by the type And total capacity of all boilers that are connected to the same Header.
(2.1) A refrigeration plant requires a refrigeration operator or a power Engineer with a fourth class or higher certification of qualification To be in charge of the plant.
(3) And (4) repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 36 (d).] [am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 36; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 20.] Continuous supervision status plant operation 45 Unless a plant is registered under section 54 or is exempted under Section 6, the person in charge of the plant must be present at all Times in the plant boiler room, refrigeration machinery room, engine Turbine room or in the immediate vicinity within the plant premises While the plant is in operation.
[en. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 8.] Determination of boiler capacity 46 (1) In this section, "extended surface" Does not include the area of a superheater.
(2) The heat receiving surface area of a boiler must be stated in square Metres (m 2 ), must include the extended surface and the heating surface must be Computed as follows:
(a) A heating surface, as part of a circulating system in contact on one Side with water or wet steam being heated and on the other side with Gas or refractory being cooled, must be measured on the side receiving Heat;
(b) A boiler heating surface and other equivalent surface outside the Furnace must be measured circumferentially plus any extended surface; (c) A waterwall heating surface and other equivalent surface within the Furnace must be measured as the projected tube area (diameter x Length) plus any extended surface on the furnace side, but in Computing the heating surface for this purpose only the tubes, Fireboxes, shells, tubesheets and the projected area of headers need To be considered, except that for vertical firetube steam boilers only That portion of the tube surface up to the middle of the gauge glass Is to be computed.
(3) The heat receiving surface area in square metres (m 2 ) of an electric boiler is the number obtained by dividing the maximum Kilowatt input by 10.
(4) The heat receiving surface area of a coiltube or a fintube boiler Includes the extended surfaces.
(5) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 21.] [am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 21.] Determination of refrigeration plant capacity 46.1 For the purposes of this regulation, the capacity of a refrigeration Plant is the total kw of all refrigeration equipment prime mover name Plate ratings connected to the refrigeration plant.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 22.] Repealed
47-53 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 134/2009, s. 37.] Special plant registration and operation 54 (1) Two categories of special plant are established:
(a) A general supervision status plant; (b) A risk assessed status plant.
(2) Every owner seeking registration of a plant under subsection (1) must (a) Apply to a provincial safety manager in the required form, (b) Submit any required fee with the application, and (c) Satisfy any of the technical requirements established by a provincial Safety manager for that type of plant.
(3) Before registration of a general supervision status plant or a risk Assessed status plant, a provincial safety manager may direct Administrative and technical specifications for that plant to be met.
General supervision status plant registration and operation 55 (1) A provincial safety manager may register a plant as a general Supervision status plant operation if the plant (a) Is not located in an institution or public assembly occupancy Premises,
(b) Is
(i) A power plant that does not exceed 30 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (ii) A steam heating plant that does not exceed 200 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (iii) A fluid heating or low pressure thermal fluid plant that does not Exceed 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (iv) A low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that does not exceed 2 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (v) An unfired plant that does not exceed 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, or (vi) A refrigeration plant that does not exceed a total plant capacity of 1 000 kw prime mover nameplate rating, (c) Has every boiler in the plant equipped with a low water fuel cut-off Device that (i) Has a manual reset that is in addition to, and independent of, any Other low water fuel cut-off device required under the act or this Regulation, and (ii) Is tested weekly or as required by a provincial safety manager and for Which the results are recorded by the person in charge of the plant, And
(d) Meets all the administrative and technical specifications issued by a Provincial safety manager after a successful review.
(2) A general supervision status plant operation requires the presence of A power engineer with the appropriate class of certificate of Qualification as determined by a plant safety audit inspection and as Required by a provincial safety manager.
(3) A plant operating as a general supervision status plant must, as a Minimum, have a power engineer with the appropriate class of Certificate of qualification who must inspect the plant in accordance With conditions established by a provincial safety manager.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 38; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 23.] Risk assessed status plant registration and operation 56 (1) A provincial safety manager may register a plant as a risk assessed Status plant if the plant (a) Is a fluid heating plant or low pressure thermal fluid plant not Exceeding 500 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (b) Is a low temperature, low pressure fluid plant that does not exceed 2 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (c) Is an unfired plant not exceeding 1 000 m 2 Of boiler capacity, (d) Is a refrigeration plant not exceeding a total plant capacity of 1 000 Kw prime mover nameplate rating, or (e) Meets all the administrative and technical specifications issued by a Provincial safety manager after a successful review.
(2) A plant operating under the risk assessed status plant category must, As a minimum, have a power engineer with the appropriate certificate Of qualification who (a) Is on the premises of the plant not less than 7 hours per day or such Greater time as may be required by a provincial safety manager, and (b) Inspects the plant in accordance with conditions established by a Provincial safety manager as part of the registration under Section 55.
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 39; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 23.] Division 4 — contractor's licence Contractor's licence required to perform regulated work under Installation permit 57 A person must hold a contractor's licence in order to perform Regulated work under an installation permit.
Bond not required for contractor's licence 58 A bond is not required to obtain or renew a contractor's licence.
Field safety representative not required for boiler contractor's Licence
59 Section 6 (a) of the safety standards general regulation does not Apply to an application for a boiler contractor's licence under this Division.
Application for contractor's licence 60 The following classes of contractor's licence are established:
(a) Pressure retaining equipment:
(i) Class "a", boiler, pressure vessel and pressure piping; (ii) Class "au", pressure vessel and pressure piping; (iii) Class "ap", pressure piping; (iv) Class "b", limited capacity boiler, pressure vessel and pressure Piping;
(b) Class "ref", refrigeration; (c) Class "srv", safety valve and relief valve service; (d) Class "ma" manufacturing shop; (e) Class "pw" pressure welding.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 9; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 24.] General duties of a licensed contractor 61 (1) Every licensed contractor must, before the commencement of any work, (a) Give notice to a provincial safety manager respecting every Construction, installation, repair or alteration of equipment to which The act applies that the contractor performs, and (b) Provide evidence satisfactory to a provincial safety manager that the Work to be performed falls within the scope of the contractor's Licence.
(2) On the completion of work, a licensed contractor must (a) Notify a safety officer whether the construction, installation, repair Or alteration has been completed in accordance with this regulation, And
(b) Submit to the owner of the equipment and, on request, a safety officer (i) Data reports, as defined in csa b51 or the national board inspection Code ansi/nb-23, or both, for every installation, repair or alteration Of equipment to which this regulation applies, and (ii) A repair or alteration report in the case of a repair or alteration of Equipment to which this regulation applies.
(3) On completion of work under a permit on a refrigeration plant using a Group al, a2 or b1 refrigerant and having a capacity of 125 kw or more Prime mover nameplate rating or using a group a3, b2 or b3 refrigerant And having a capacity of 25 kw or more prime mover nameplate rating, The licensed contractor must, before testing is done, request an Inspection from a safety officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 25.] Part 2 — requirements for permits, regulated products and Inspections by safety officers Division 1 — permit requirements Permits
62 (1) A person must have an installation permit to install, repair or alter Any of the following:
(a) A boiler; (b) A refrigeration system or part of a refrigeration system.
(2) A person must hold an operating permit for each boiler, pressure Vessel or refrigeration system.
(3) If a person holds an operating permit under subsection (2), the permit Holder or an employee of the permit holder may perform routine Maintenance or minor repairs to that equipment without holding a Boiler or refrigeration contractor's licence.
(4) A provincial safety manager may, in a particular case, determine what Constitutes routine maintenance or minor repairs for the purpose of Subsection (3).
(5) An owner may apply for an installation permit to perform an Installation or repair of equipment to which this regulation applies That would otherwise require a licensed contractor to apply for the Permit if (a) The owner submits a written application to a provincial safety manager Specifying the work to be done in the plant and the equipment and Components to be used, and (b) The owner provides the name and qualifications of the individual who Will perform the work under the permit.
(6) A person who applies for a permit for a refrigeration plant using a Group al, a2 or b1 refrigerant and having a capacity of 125 kw or More prime mover nameplate rating, or using a group a3, b2 or b3 Refrigerant and having a capacity of 25 kw or more prime mover Nameplate rating, must submit piping design drawing with the permit Application.
(7) An installation permit issued under this regulation is not required to Name a field safety representative.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 26.] Operating permit for plant required 62.1 (1) An owner must hold an operating permit for each of the following types Of plants:
(a) A first class plant, a second class plant, a third class plant, a Fourth class plant and a fifth class plant; (b) An oil well plant.
(2) Despite subsection (1), a provincial safety manager may direct that One operating permit is required if the provincial safety manager is Satisfied that (a) 2 or more plants are located on the same premises, and (b) Separate operating permits are not required for the purpose of Ensuring that the objectives of the act and this regulation are met.
(3) An applicant for an operating permit must provide to a provincial Safety manager (a) A record identifying (i) The location of the plant and all related plants, if any, (ii) The classification, type and total capacity of the plant, and (iii) All boilers, pressure vessels and ancillary equipment that form part Of the plant, and (b) Any further information required by the provincial safety manager.
[en. b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 9.] Transition — operating permits for plants 62.2 (1) In this section, "pre-permit owner" Means an owner of a plant (a) At which regulated work was being performed in accordance with this Regulation as it read immediately before october 2, 2017, and (b) That is required under section 62.1 to be the subject of an operating Permit.
(2) A pre-permit owner is deemed to hold an operating permit in respect of The owner's plant until the earliest of the following dates:
(a) The date on which an operating permit is issued in respect of the Plant;
(b) October 1, 2019.
(3) Despite section 69.1, that section does not apply to a pre-permit Owner in respect of the owner's plant until the earliest of the dates Referred to in subsection (2).
(4) A pre-permit owner who applies before october 1, 2019, for an Operating permit in respect of the owner's plant is not required to Pay a fee in respect of the application.
(5) This section is repealed effective october 2, 2019.
[en. b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 9.] When permit not required for regulated work 63 (1) An installation permit is not required to install a pressure vessel.
(2) In respect of refrigeration equipment, a refrigeration mechanic may, Without an installation permit, (a) Replace valves, controls, piping, refrigerant or relief devices with Components of a similar type that have been approved by a provincial Safety manager or a similar regulatory authority in another province, And
(b) Maintain or overhaul refrigeration system components.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 27.] Division 2 — inspections by safety officers Preparation of equipment for inspection 64 To prepare equipment for inspection by a safety officer, the owner, Chief engineer or a person designated by the chief engineer must do All of the following:
(a) If a hydrostatic test or other pressure test is considered necessary By a safety officer, prepare the boiler, pressure vessel, Refrigeration system or pressure piping system for the required test; (b) At the request of a safety officer, remove all jackets, coverings and Casings from the equipment being inspected; (c) Perform non-destructive tests as required by a safety officer to carry Out inspections; (d) Open and have thoroughly cleaned and ventilated every boiler or Pressure vessel; (e) Remove manhole and handhole covers; (f) Clean the flues and other parts of a furnace that are to be inspected; (g) Ensure that safety procedures are implemented, so that steam, gases, Hot water and other liquids cannot enter the area being inspected; (h) If a hydrostatic test or other pressure test is to be performed on any Equipment or system, ensure that no components of the equipment or System will be exposed to pressures or temperatures that would induce Maximum primary stresses exceeding 90% of the yield stress of that Component's material of manufacture, and that all materials comply With the notch toughness requirements for the specified test fluid and Metal temperatures, as required by the applicable codes adopted in the Schedule;
(i) Ensure that for internal inspections of vessels, confined space entry And isolation requirements are in accordance with the occupational Health and safety regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 28.] Part 3 — safety officers Requirements for a certificate of qualification as a safety officer 65 A provincial safety manager may issue a certificate of qualification As a safety officer for the purposes of this regulation to an Individual who (a) Holds a valid national board commission as a boiler and pressure Vessel inspector issued by the national board of boiler and pressure Vessel inspectors, or (b) In the opinion of the provincial safety manager, meets the Qualification criteria for the commission referred to in paragraph (a).
[en. b.c. reg. 46/2010, s. 3.] Part 4 — incident reporting Duty to report incidents in plants 66 (1) If an incident occurs in a plant and an injury or death has occurred As a result of the incident, the owner must isolate the equipment and Prohibit any further use of the equipment until its use is approved by A provincial safety manager.
(2) The owner must conduct, or cause to be conducted, an investigation of The incident and submit a written report of the findings to a Provincial safety manager within 30 days of the incident.
Part 5 — technical requirements Division 1 — person in charge of plant General requirements for person in charge of a plant 67 (1) The person in charge of a plant must hold a certificate of Qualification appropriate to the work to be performed in the plant.
(2) The person in charge of the plant must ensure that the plant is Adequately supervised and has appropriately qualified persons working In it.
(3) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 29 (a).] (4) A plant that employs more than 24 power engineers in the operation of The plant is required to have at least one assistant chief engineer.
(5) An individual must not be in charge of more than one plant at any time Except with the approval of a provincial safety manager.
(6) If regulated plant equipment is not under the continuous attendance of A power engineer, refrigeration operator or ice facility operator and Is operating under the general supervision status plant or risk Assessed status plant classification, (a) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 29 (a).] (b) An individual with the appropriate safety awareness certificate of Qualification issued under the act must be in attendance on the Premises of a plant when the plant is in operation and the power Engineer, refrigeration operator or ice facility operator is not on The plant premises, and (c) In the case of a refrigeration plant, an individual with the basic Safety awareness certificate of qualification issued under the act is Required to be on the plant premises while the plant is in operation, The premises are occupied and the power engineer, refrigeration Operator or ice facility operator is not on the plant premises.
(7) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 29 (a).] [am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 11; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 29.] Chief engineer requirements 68 (1) If a power engineer has the written permission of a provincial safety Manager, the power engineer may, at any one time, be the chief Engineer of not more than (a) 3 steam heating, fluid heating or low pressure thermal fluid plants, Or
(b) 4 refrigeration plants.
(2) If 2 or more power engineers are employed in a plant, the owner, or The person who is in charge of the plant, must designate one of the Power engineers as chief engineer.
[am. b.c. regs. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 12; 134/2009, s. 40.] Person in charge to give permission before work can begin 69 A person must not perform any work on a boiler, pressure vessel or Pressure piping system connected to it, instrumentation and control System, fuel system or fuel burning equipment or refrigeration plant Equipment that may affect the operation and safety of the plant except With the prior approval of the chief engineer, assistant chief Engineer or the person in charge of the plant.
Division 2 — obligations of owners and licensed contractors Duties of owners requiring plant operating permits 69.1 An owner who is required under section 62.1 to have an operating Permit for a plant must comply with all of the following:
(a) The plant must not be operated unless the owner holds a valid Operating permit; (b) The operating permit must be posted in a conspicuous, clean and safe Place in the plant premises; (c) Within the plant premises, there must be (i) A copy of the record referred to in section 62.1 (3) (a), (i.1) A list of all power engineers, operators and safety awareness Certificate holders employed at the plant, including (a) Their certificate numbers, classes and expiry dates, and (b) A description of their tasks and where and when they perform those Tasks, and (ii) A record containing any further information required by a provincial Safety manager; (d) The owner must designate an individual to be responsible for Maintaining the records referred to in paragraph (c), and the name and Contact information of that individual must be kept with those Records;
(e) The records referred to in paragraph (c) must be updated if there is Any change to the information stated in the record, and the name and Contact information referred to in paragraph (d) must be updated if a New individual is designated or if the contact information of the Designated individual changes; (f) If a change is to be made to the plant that may cause the plant to be Re-classified under this regulation, or a change is to be made to the Type of plant, the plant must not be operated according to the new Classification or type unless a new operating permit is issued.
[en. b.c. reg. 45/2017, sch. 4, s. 10; am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, Sch. 2, s. 30.] Owner to designate shift engineer during temporary absence of chief Engineer
70 When the chief engineer is away from the plant, the owner must ensure That a power engineer who holds a certificate of qualification of not Less than one class lower than that required for chief engineer is Designated to act as a shift engineer.
Owner not to require persons to perform dangerous work 71 The owner of a plant must not require a holder of a certificate, or a Refrigeration mechanic, to perform a duty not related to the operation Of the plant if a provincial safety manager considers that the Performance of that duty may create a risk of personal injury or Damage to property.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 31.] Owners and licensed contractors to keep records 72 (1) The owner of a plant or a licensed contractor must ensure that records Required under this regulation or by a provincial safety manager are Kept as follows:
(a) For a period of at least 7 years; (b) For a longer period, if required under this regulation or by a Provincial safety manager.
(2) An owner who receives reports under section 61 (2) (b) in respect of Equipment must keep the reports throughout the life of the equipment.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 31.] Duty to ensure sufficient combustion air supply to boilers 73 (1) An owner or licensed contractor who installs a boiler must ensure that Sufficient air is capable of being supplied to every boiler in the Plant to permit complete combustion of the fuel.
(2) The owner of a plant may use a mechanical system to supply air for the Combustion of the fuel in a boiler if the mechanical system (a) Is interlocked with the burner controls of the boiler, and (b) Ensures that adequate air is provided before any fuel is admitted into The combustion chamber or the furnace of the boiler.
Owner responsible for safety in a plant 74 (1) The owner of a plant must ensure that there is compliance with all of The following:
(a) Floors, pits and sumps in the plant have adequate drainage; (b) The plant or equipment in the plant prevents oil or other liquids Harmful to a boiler from being introduced into boiler feedwater; (c) There is adequate drainage to prevent accumulation of condensate in Any piping; (d) If the plant has an automated control system described in section 6 (l) (i) and (ii), functional testing and maintenance programs for the System are carried out.
(2) If regulated work is being performed on a pressure piping system in a Plant, the owner of the plant must ensure that the portion of the Pressure piping system where the regulated work is performed is safe For the activity being performed.
(3) If steam from a boiler in a plant exceeds 103 kpa gauge pressure and Will be used for services at a lower pressure, the owner of the plant Must ensure that, in association with the pressure reducing device, (a) One or more relief devices or safety valves are provided on the low Pressure side of the system, or (b) The piping and equipment on the low pressure side of the system is Designed to withstand the upstream design pressure.
(4) The relief or safety devices referred to in subsection (3) (a) must be Located adjoining, or as close as possible to, the reducing valve.
(5) To provide for servicing of the pressure reducing device, hand Controlled bypass valves having a capacity no greater than the Reducing device may be installed around the pressure reducing device If
(a) The downstream piping is adequately protected by relief or safety Devices of proper capacity, or (b) The design pressure of the downstream piping equipment is at least as High as the design pressure of the upstream piping equipment.
[am. b.c. reg. 46/2010, s. 4.] Duties of owners of steam driven engines 75 (1) The owner of a steam driven engine must ensure that the steam driven Engine has a quick closing emergency shut off valve that is (a) Located in the steam pipe to the engine, (b) Arranged so it can be shut from a remote location, and (c) Tested regularly and the results of the tests recorded and kept by the Owner in a form acceptable to a provincial safety manager.
(2) All steam driven engines must be inspected annually and the connected Boiler must have a hydrostatic test performed annually that is Witnessed by a safety officer.
Duties of owners of chemical recovery boilers 76 (1) The owner of a plant must ensure that every chemical recovery boiler In the plant is operated in accordance with the applicable provisions Of the codes and standards set out in the schedule to this regulation.
(2) The owner of a plant must ensure that the instruments and controls That are necessary for the safe operation and emergency shutdown of a Chemical recovery boiler are located in the control room of the plant.
(3) The owner of a plant must not permit the operation of a chemical Recovery boiler in the plant unless there is compliance with all of The following:
(a) Procedures that will ensure the safe evacuation of all plant employees And the safe shutdown of the plant during an emergency have been (i) Sent to a provincial safety manager at least one month before the Boiler is used, and (ii) Posted as near as possible to the operating panel of the chemical Recovery boiler; (b) The chemical recovery boiler has a rapid drain system that has worked During tests that were conducted in the manner required by a safety Officer;
(c) A device that continuously monitors and records the firing Concentration of the black liquor in the chemical recovery boiler has Been installed (i) After the last connection if contamination by a substance that would Dilute the black liquor could occur, and (ii) Before the burner spray nozzles; (d) Equipment has been installed that is separate from and that tests the Device referred to in paragraph (c); (e) An audible boiler low water level alarm is fitted to the chemical Recovery boiler, which alarm can only be cancelled after the condition That caused the alarm to sound has been acknowledged and, if not Corrected within 60 seconds, will sound again until corrected; (f) A communication system between personnel in the plant and the power Engineer in the control room is functioning (g) The dissolving tanks of the chemical recovery boiler are (i) Constructed in accordance with industry recommended safe design Practices, and (ii) Vented with explosive relief devices that, when used, ensure that the Dissolving tanks are safe; (h) An emergency spout-cooling water make-up is installed on water cooled Spouts.
(4) The owner of a chemical recovery boiler must ensure that the power Engineer who is placed in immediate charge of the chemical recovery Boiler, and who is responsible to the shift engineer for the safe and Efficient operation of the chemical recovery boiler, is the holder of A first, second or third class power engineer's certificate of Qualification.
Duties of owners of boilers and pressure vessels 77 (1) The owner must inform a safety officer before the owner or a licensed Contractor installs any new boiler or pressure vessel and the safety Officer may stipulate any record-keeping requirements.
(2) The owner of a plant must not install a previously used boiler or Previously used pressure vessel unless the owner provides to a safety Officer
(a) The manufacturer's data report, (b) The latest inspection report for that boiler or pressure vessel from The previous inspecting authority, and (c) Any other records required by the safety officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 32.] Welding and brazing procedures must be to code and registered 78 (1) The owner of a plant that has a person perform regulated work on Equipment and systems to which this regulation applies must ensure That all pressure welding and brazing is done in accordance with csa B51.
(2) Pressure welding or brazing must not be performed in british columbia Unless one of the following persons has first registered the pressure Welding or brazing procedures with a provincial safety manager:
(a) A licensed contractor holding a licence of class "a", "au", "ap" or "pw"; (b) Another person permitted by the provincial safety manager.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 33.] Duties of owners of certain plants 79 The owner of a pressure vessel plant or a plant described in section 6 (l) must designate individuals employed by the owner to be responsible For the operation and maintenance of the plant in a safe working Condition.
[am. b.c. reg. 46/2010, s. 5.] Boiler safety awareness certificate and annual service report Requirement
80 The owner of a plant in which the holder of a boiler safety awareness Certificate of qualification is employed must obtain, and keep at the Premises, an annual service report from a licensed boiler contractor Stating that any work that has been carried out has been done in Accordance with the manufacturers' specifications and as required Under this regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 34.] Refrigeration safety awareness certificate and annual service report Requirement
81 The owner of a plant in which the holder of a refrigeration safety Awareness certificate of qualification is employed must obtain, and Keep at the premises, an annual service report from a licensed Refrigeration contractor stating that any work that has been carried Out has been done in accordance with the manufacturers' specifications And as required under this regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 35.] Division 3 — registration, approvals and notification of purchase or Disposition
Design registration and inspection requirements 82 A person must not perform regulated work on a boiler, a pressure Vessel, a pressure piping system, a fitting, a plant or refrigeration Equipment for use in british columbia unless (a) The original design and the altered design, if any, have been Registered by a provincial safety manager, (b) The regulated work is done in accordance with that design, and (c) If required by a safety officer, it is inspected, investigated and Tested during construction and after completion.
[am. b.c. reg. 475/2004, sch. 4, s. 13.] Repealed
83 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 36.] Registration of boiler, pressure vessel, fitting and pressure piping Design
84 (1) For this section, "pressure retaining equipment" Means a boiler or pressure vessel, or pressure piping system.
(2) The design of all boilers, pressure vessels, fittings and pressure Piping, to which this regulation applies, must be registered with a Provincial safety manager.
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to (a) Pressure piping that is nps 3 or less or in a heating plant, or (b) A pressure retaining component that is an integral part of a rotating Or reciprocating mechanical device, if the primary design Considerations or stresses of the device are derived from the Functional requirements of the device.
(4) To register a design, the owner, licensed contractor, consulting Engineer, manufacturer or designer of the pressure retaining equipment Must submit, for review by a provincial safety manager, an application Containing the name of the manufacturer and all drawings, design Specifications, calculations and codes of conformance as required by a Provincial safety manager.
(5) Registration of the design of pressure retaining equipment must be Obtained before construction is commenced.
(6) If, in the opinion of a provincial safety manager, a design registered Under subsection (2) is subsequently found to be defective in any Detail,
(a) The provincial safety manager may suspend or revoke the registration, (b) The design must be revised by the person who submitted the design, and (c) The pressure retaining equipment that is the subject of the design Must not be constructed or used until (i) Those revisions are approved by the provincial safety manager, and (ii) The provincial safety manager cancels the suspension or reinstates the Registration, if the registration was suspended or revoked.
(7) The registration of a pressure retaining equipment design does not Relieve the equipment manufacturer of liability for the design and Construction of the pressure retaining equipment.
(8) A provincial safety manager may exempt fitting designs from Registration under subsection (2).
[am. b.c. regs. 134/2009, s. 41; 333/2010; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 37.] Registration of control systems 84.1 (1) In this section, "automated control system" Means an automated control system described in section 6 (l) (i) and (ii) and includes the commissioning programs, functional testing Programs and maintenance programs for the system.
(2) The design of all automated control systems, including all alterations Of previously registered designs, must be registered with a provincial Safety manager.
(3) To register a design or an alteration to a design, the owner of the Automated control system or the engineer, manufacturer or designer of The automated control system, if the engineer, manufacturer or Designer is acting as an agent for the owner, must submit, for review By a provincial safety manager, an application that includes (a) All design specifications, including information respecting Safeguards, controls, interlocks, logic data and system commissioning And testing, (b) An approval by a professional engineer of the automated control System's design, and (c) Any additional information with respect to the automated control System required by a provincial safety manager.
(4) Registration of a design or an alteration to a design must be obtained Before installation is commenced.
(5) If, in the opinion of a provincial safety manager, a design registered Under subsection (2) is subsequently found to be defective in any Detail,
(a) The provincial safety manager may suspend or revoke the registration, (b) The design must be revised by the person who submitted the design, and (c) The automated control system that is the subject of the design must Not be installed or used until (i) Those revisions are approved by the provincial safety manager, and (ii) The provincial safety manager cancels the suspension or reinstates the Registration, if the registration was suspended or revoked.
(6) The registration of a design or an alteration to a design does not Relieve the professional engineer or equipment manufacturer of Liability for the design and the installation of the automated control System.
[en. b.c. reg. 46/2010, s. 6; am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 38.] Boiler fuel systems to be registered on request 85 The manufacturer or designer of the fuel system for a boiler must Submit the following to a provincial safety manager, on request of the Provincial safety manager and within the time requested:
(a) Information respecting the safeguards, controls and interlocks of the Fuel system, including a listing of the codes and standards to which The system conforms; (b) Schematic drawings and logic data.
[en. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 39.] No repairs to boilers or pressure vessels unless approved 86 Except in an emergency and as authorized under section 12 (2) of The safety standards general regulation, a person must not repair a Boiler or pressure vessel unless the person has notified a safety Officer and received from the safety officer approval for the repair Procedures to be used and an installation permit.
[am. b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 40.] No alterations to boilers or pressure vessels unless registered 87 (1) A person must not perform an alteration to a boiler or pressure vessel Unless that person has registered the alteration with a provincial Safety manager.
(2) The registration submission for an altered boiler or pressure vessel Must include all of the following:
(a) Proof that the boiler or pressure vessel was manufactured in Accordance with the design registered under section 84 (1); (b) Non-destructive examination reports that confirm suitability for Further operation; (c) Calculations based on both the original code of construction and the Current edition and addenda of the applicable asme boiler and pressure Vessel code, whichever is more appropriate.
(3) A provincial safety manager may assign a new canadian registration Number to a boiler or pressure vessel following a successful review of A registration submission under subsection (2).
Division 4 — refrigeration machinery rooms and systems Refrigeration plant installations 88 (1) For this section, "canadian registration number" Has the same meaning as in csa b51.
(2) If a refrigeration plant (a) Has a capacity of 125 kw prime mover nameplate rating or more and uses Group al, a2 or b1 refrigerants, or (b) Has a capacity of 25 kw prime mover nameplate rating or more and uses Group a3, b2 or b3 refrigerants, A licensed contractor must, before performing an installation, provide A registration number for the pressure piping to a provincial safety Manager.
Schedule
[en. b.c. reg. 50/2007, sch. 2, s. 2; am. b.c. regs. 38/2008; 133/2009; 334/2010; 201/2011; 43/2013, app. s. 1; 47/2014; 113/2015, Ss. 2 to 7; 97/2016; 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 41.] Adopted codes and standards 1 The following codes, standards or parts of a code or standard of the American society of mechanical engineers (asme) are adopted:
(a) Asme b31.1-2014 power piping; (b) Asme b31.3-2014 process piping; (c) Asme b31.5 refrigeration piping and heat transfer components 2013 Edition;
(d) Asme b31.9-2014 building services piping; (e) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 97/2016, s. 1.] (f) Asme ptc 25-2014 pressure relief devices.
2 The ansi/nb-23 national board inspection code 2015 edition of the American national standards institute and the national board of boiler And pressure vessel inspectors (ansi/nb) is adopted.
3 The following codes, standards or parts of a code or standard of the American petroleum institute (api) are adopted:
(a) Api std 530 revision/edition 7 calculation of heater-tube thickness in Petroleum refineries 2015 edition; (b) Api 510 pressure vessel inspection code: in-service inspection, Rating, repair, and alteration, tenth edition; (c) Api 570 revision/edition 3 piping inspection code: inspection, repair, Alteration and rerating of in-service piping systems.
4 The following codes, standards or parts of a code or standard of the American society of mechanical engineers (asme), or the american Society of mechanical engineers and the american national standards Institute (asme/ansi), as applicable, are adopted:
(a) Asme section i — rules for construction of power boilers 2015 edition; (b) Asme section iv — rules for construction of heating boilers 2015 Edition;
(c) Asme section viii — rules for construction of pressure vessels, Divisions 1, 2 and 3, 2015 edition; (d) Asme section x — fiber-reinforced plastic pressure vessels 2015 Edition;
(e) Asme section xii — rules for construction and continued service of Transport tanks 2015 edition; (f) Asme csd-l-2012 controls and safety devices for automatically fired Boilers;
(g) Asme/ansi pvho-1 safety standard for pressure vessels for human Occupancy 2012 edition.
(h) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 41.] 5 The following codes, standards or parts of a code or standard of the Canadian standards association (csa) are adopted:
(a) Csa b51-14 boiler, pressure vessel, and pressure piping code; (b) Csa b52-13 mechanical refrigeration code.
(c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 170/2018, sch. 2, s. 41.] 6 The nfpa 85 boiler and combustion systems hazards code 2015 edition of The national fire protection association (nfpa) is adopted.
7 The standards of the tubular exchanger manufacturers association (tema) ninth edition is adopted.
8 The ansi/cga g-2.1-2014 requirements for the storage and handling of Anhydrous ammonia sixth edition of the american national standards Institute and the compressed gas association (ansi/cga) is adopted.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Safety standards act , s.b.c. 2003, c. 39, s. 88.]