B.c. reg. 575/2004 O.c. 1237/2004 Deposited december 13, 2004 Effective december 31, 2004 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to point in time Financial institutions act Prescribed types of businesses regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 185/2015, october 5, 2015] Interpretation
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Financial institutions act ; "factoring" Means the business of buying or selling, outright and without Recourse, accounts receivable; "financial leasing" Means leasing property by means of a direct financing lease as defined In the cpa canada handbooks, as amended from time to time; "permitted entity" Means a savings institution, a corporation or entity that offers Services that a financial institution may engage in directly under This regulation, or a corporation or entity in which a financial Institution may own more than 10% of the voting shares or a 10% Interest as specified in section 6.2 of the investment and lending Regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 185/2015, s. 4.] Permitted businesses 2 The following are businesses of a prescribed type for the purpose of Section 65 (1) (c) of the act:
(a) Investment counseling; (b) Portfolio management; (c) The issuing of credit cards and the operation of associated credit Card systems; (d) The promotion of merchandise and services to holders of credit cards Issued by the financial institution; (e) The acquisition, holding, maintenance, improvement, sale, lease or Management of real property, or may act as an agent in the sale or Purchase of real property; (f) Factoring;
(g) Financial leasing; (h) The provision of data processing or information services relating to Financial institutions; (i) The collection, manipulation and transmission of information that is Primarily financial or economic in nature and is provided to permitted Entities;
(j) Business management and advisory services; (k) The business of a financial agent; (l) The sale of (i) Tickets, including lottery tickets, for special, temporary and Infrequent non-commercial celebrations or projects that are of local, Municipal, provincial or national interest, as a non-profit service, (ii) Urban transit tickets, and (iii) Tickets for a lottery sponsored by the federal government, a Provincial government or a municipal government or by an agency of any Of those governments; (m) Subject to the act and the regulations, acting as agent for any person For the provision of any service provided by a permitted entity.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Financial institutions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 141, section 289]