B.C. Reg. 173/2002
O.C. 569/2002
Deposited July 5, 2002
effective July 15, 2002
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Criminal Records Review Act
Prescribed Programs Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 12/2008, January 31, 2008]
Prescribed program
1
For the purposes of Part 5 of the
Criminal Records Review Act
, the Child Care Resource and Referral Program is prescribed.
Designated administrators
2
The Criminal Records Administrator at each of the following agencies
is designated as an administrator for the program in section 1:
Abbotsford Community Services
Bulkley Valley Child Development Centre Society — Smithers
Cariboo Family Enrichment Centre — 100 Mile House
Chilliwack Community Services
Clements Centre Society
Community Connections Society of Southeast BC — Cranbrook
Golden Community Resources Society
Hope Community Services Society
Kamloops Community YMCA-YWCA
Kelowna Child Care Society
Langley Community Services Society
Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows Community Services
Mission Community Services Society
New Focus Society — Quesnel
North Shore Community Resources
Okanagan Boys and Girls Club — Vernon
OPTIONS: Services to Communities Society — Surrey
Pacific Child and Family Enrichment Society — Courtenay
Pacific Child and Family Enrichment Society — Nanaimo
Penticton and District Community Resources Society
Family Young Men's Christian Association of Prince George
Prince Rupert Association for Community Living
Queen Charlotte Islands Women Society
Revelstoke Community Childcare Society
Sea to Sky Community Childcare Society — Squamish
Shuswap Children's Association — Salmon Arm
Sooke Family Resource Society
South Peace Community Resources Society — Dawson Creek
South Peace Community Resources Society — Fort St John
Sunshine Coast Community Services Society — Sechelt
Sunshine Valley Child Care Society — Grand Forks
Terrace Women's Resource Centre Society
Trail Family and Individual Resource Centre Society
Victoria Single Parent Resource Centre Society
Volunteer Richmond Information Services
Kootenay Kid's Society — Nelson
Westcoast Child Care Resource Centre
Contact Women's Group Society — Williams Lake
YMCA of Greater Vancouver: Child and Youth Services — Burnaby
New West
YMCA of Greater Vancouver: Child and Youth Services — TriCities
[en. B.C. Reg. 12/2008.]
[Provisions of the
Criminal Records Review Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 86, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 29 (2) (g)]
