B.c. reg. 11/2021 O.c. 34/2021 Deposited january 26, 2021 Effective february 5, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Professional governance act Professional governance (election stagger) Transitional regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Professional governance act ; "continued registrant councillor" Has the same meaning as in section 126 (1) of the act; "tied councillors" Means two or more registrant councillors who received the same number Of votes in an election of a regulatory body.
Tied councillors 2 (1) For the purposes of this regulation, (a) Tied councillors are to be ranked in accordance with subsection (2), And
(b) A tied councillor is deemed, as among the tied councillors, to have Received more votes than any lower ranked tied councillor and less Votes than any higher ranked tied councillor.
(2) Tied councillors are to be ranked for the purposes of subsection (1) As follows:
(a) If the bylaws of the regulatory body set out a method for determining Who is elected from among two or more candidates who receive the same Number of votes, using that method; (b) In any other case, by random draw.
British columbia institute of agrologists 3 (1) Subsection (2) applies if the bylaws of the british columbia institute Of agrologists applicable to the 2021 election of that regulatory body Identify regions of british columbia and provide that registrant Councillors are to be elected from one or more of those regions in That election.
(2) Despite section 24 (1) of the act, the term to hold office is one year For a registrant councillor of the british columbia institute of Agrologists who (a) Is elected from a region in the 2021 election of that regulatory body, (b) Is not the only registrant councillor elected from the region in that Election, and (c) Received the fewest votes of all registrant councillors elected from The region in that election.
Applied science technologists and technicians of british columbia 4 (1) Despite section 24 (1) of the act, the term to hold office is one year For a registrant councillor of the applied science technologists and Technicians of british columbia who (a) Is elected in the 2022 election of that regulatory body, and (b) Received the fewest votes of all registrant councillors elected in That election.
(2) Despite section 24 (1) of the act, the term to hold office is 2 years For a registrant councillor of the applied science technologists and Technicians of british columbia who (a) Is elected in the 2022 election of that regulatory body, and (b) Received the second fewest votes of all registrant councillors elected In that election.
College of applied biology 5 Despite section 24 (1) of the act, the term to hold office is 2 years For the following registrant councillors of the college of applied Biology:
(a) The registrant councillor who (i) Is elected in the 2021 election of that regulatory body, and (ii) Received the fewest votes of all registrant councillors elected in That election; (b) The registrant councillor who (i) Is elected in the 2022 election of that regulatory body, and (ii) Received the fewest votes of all registrant councillors elected in That election.
The association of professional engineers and geoscientists of the Province of british columbia 6 (1) Section 84 (6) (a) of the act does not apply in relation to a Continued registrant councillor of the association of professional Engineers and geoscientists of the province of british columbia who (a) Is elected in the 2020 election, and (b) Received the first or the second most votes of all continued Registrant councillors elected in that election.
(2) For the purposes of section 84 (6) (d), the term to hold office is one Year for a continued registrant councillor who (a) Is elected in the 2020 election, and (b) Did not receive the first, second, third or fourth most votes of all Continued registrant councillors elected in that election.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional governance act , s.b.c. 2018, c. 47, ss. 119 and 129.]