B.c. reg. 202/2008 O.c. 502/2008 Deposited june 27, 2008 Effective on the date the tsawwassen First nation final agreement takes effect This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Property transfer tax act Property transfer tax Exemption regulation no. 10 Definitions
1 (1) In this regulation, "act" Means the Property transfer tax act .
(2) Words and phrases used in this regulation have the same meanings as in The tsawwassen first nation final agreement, unless the context Requires otherwise.
Return exemptions 2 The following transferees are exempt in relation to the specified Transaction from the requirement under section 2 (1) (b) of the act to File a return:
(a) The tsawwassen first nation and any other person, in respect of an Application on the effective date at a land title office for Registration of a taxable transaction for which the tsawwassen first Nation or the person is exempt from tax under the tsawwassen first Nation final agreement or section 2.2 of the act; (b) A corporation that enters into a ground lease, as defined in section 199 of the Strata property act , with the tsawwassen first nation in relation to the tsawwassen lands Referred to in appendix d-6 of the tsawwassen first nation final Agreement, in respect of an application on the effective date at a Land title office for registration of the ground lease; (c) A person referred to in clause 1 of chapter 5 [ Land title ] of the tsawwassen first nation final agreement, in respect of an Application on the effective date at a land title office for Registration of the interest to which the person is entitled under Appendix d -2, d-3, d-4, d-6 or d-7 of that agreement.
Property transfer tax exemptions 3 A person described in section 2 (b) or (c) is exempt from tax in Relation to the taxable transaction for which the person is exempt Under that section from the requirement to file a return.
[provisions of the Property transfer tax act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 378, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Section 37]