B.C. Reg. 44/2022
O.C. 90/2022
Deposited February 22, 2022
effective August 1, 2021
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Property Transfer Tax Act
Property Transfer Tax Exemption Regulation No. 34
Definition and interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation,
"Act"
means the
Property Transfer Tax Act
.
(2)
Words and expressions used in this regulation in relation to a
specific treaty first nation and defined in the final agreement of the
treaty first nation have the same meaning as in that final agreement.
(3)
Words and expressions used in this regulation in relation to the
Nisg̱a'a Nation and defined in the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement have the
same meaning as in the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement.
Exemption
2
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), a transfer of lands described in column 2
of the Schedule to a transferee set out opposite in column 1 of the
Schedule is exempt from tax payable under the Act.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply if
(a)
the applicable final agreement provides a date by which or a period
within which the transferee must become the registered owner of the
land described in column 2 in order for the land to be added to the
treaty lands and the transfer of the land does not occur by that date
or within that period, or
(b)
the applicable final agreement provides a date by which or a period
within which the transferee must notify British Columbia that it
wishes to purchase the land described in column 2 of the Schedule and
notice is not given by that date or within that period.
Schedule
Item
Column 1
Transferee
Column 2
Lands
1
Huu-ay-aht First Nations
A Maa-nulth First Nation Public Institution of Huu-ay-aht First
Nations
The lands identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands"
and set out in Appendix F-3, Part 1, Plans 1 to 3 of the Maa-nulth
First Nations Final Agreement
2
The Nisg̱a'a Nation
A Nisg̱a'a Village
The lands within the boundaries set out in Appendix B-2 of the
Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement
The lands subject to a woodlot licence or an agricultural lease
within the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a Lands and set out in Appendix B-3
of the Nisg̱a'a Final Agreement
3
The Tla'amin Nation
A Tla'amin Public Institution
The lands identified as "Potential Addition" and set out in
Appendix I, Part 1, Maps 1 to 4 of the Tla'amin Final Agreement
The lands identified as "Potential Addition" and set out in
Appendix I, Part 2, Maps 1 to 4 of the Tla'amin Final Agreement
4
Toquaht Nation
A Maa-nulth First Nation Public Institution of Toquaht Nation
The lands identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands"
and set out in Appendix F-3, Part 2, Plan 1 of the Maa-nulth First
Nations Final Agreement
5
Tsawwassen First Nation
The lands defined as "Specified Lands" in the Tsawwassen First
Nation Final Agreement
6
Uchucklesaht Tribe
A Maa-nulth First Nation Public Institution of Uchucklesaht Tribe
The lands identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands"
and set out in Appendix F-3, Part 3, Plan 1 of the Maa-nulth First
Nations Final Agreement
7
Ucluelet First Nation
A Maa-nulth First Nation Public Institution of Ucluelet First
Nation
The lands identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands"
and set out in Appendix F-3, Part 4, Plan 1 of the Maa-nulth First
Nations Final Agreement
The lands identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands"
and set out in Appendix F-4, Part 1, Plan 1 of the Maa-nulth First
Nations Final Agreement
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Property Transfer Tax Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 378, s. 37 (2) and (3).]
