B.c. reg. 289/2008 M249/2008
Deposited october 15, 2008 Effective october 17, 2008 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
See “amendments not in force” and the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2024 For
Amendments effective after march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Health professions act Psychologists regulation [last amended may 1, 2023 by b.c. reg. 204/2022] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "psychology" Means the health profession in which a person provides the following Services:
(a) The prevention and treatment of mental conditions and disorders; (b) The assessment, management and enhancement of an individual's Developmental, behavioural, cognitive, emotional, intellectual and Interpersonal functioning, primarily by using psychological assessment And intervention strategies such as psychometric testing and Psychotherapy.
[en. b.c. reg. 204/2022, sch. 1.] College name 2 The name "college of psychologists of british columbia" is the name of The college established under section 15 (1) of the act for Psychology.
Reserved titles 3 (1) The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:
(a) Registered psychological associate; (b) Psychological associate; (c) Registered psychologist; (d) Psychologist.
(2) Despite subsection (1), a person who is not a registrant may use the Title "psychologist", and a society whose members are not registrants May incorporate the words "psychology", "psychological" or "psychologist" in their title or designation, if that person is, or The members of that society are, (a) Practising the profession in the course of the person's employment With a board or council under the Health authorities act Or with a community health services society, designated by the Minister for the purposes of this paragraph, incorporated under the Society act , (b) Teaching, lecturing or engaging in research as a psychologist if those Activities are carried out by reason of, and in the course of, duties Under an academic appointment or program in a university as defined by The
University act , or (c) Acting in the course of employment by (i) A provincial, federal or municipal government or government agency, (ii) An authority as defined in the Independent school act , (iii) A francophone education authority as defined in the School act , or (iv) A board of school trustees constituted under the School act , If qualifications in psychology are a condition of such employment.
Scope of practice 4 A registrant may practise psychology.
Patient relations program 5 The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of The act.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]