B.c. reg. 42/2004 M29/2004
Deposited february 12, 2004 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to point in time Community charter Public health bylaws regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 255/2016, november 28, 2016] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Community charter ; "medical health officer" Means a medical health officer designated under the Public health act ; "minister" Means the minister designated under the responsible minister Regulation, b.c. reg. 330/2003, as the minister responsible in Relation to bylaws under section 8 (3) (i) of the act; "nisg̱a'a nation" Has the same meaning as in the nisg̱a'a final agreement as defined in Section 1 of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement act ; "phsa" Means the provincial health services authority, a society as defined In section 1 of the Societies act ; "regional health board" Means a board as defined in section 1 of the Health authorities act .
[am. b.c. reg. 255/2016.] Restrictions and conditions on public health bylaws 2 (1) For the purposes of section 9 (4) (a) of the act, bylaws made by a Council under section 8 (3) (i) [public health] Of the act in relation to the following matters are subject to the Restrictions and conditions set out in subsection (2):
(a) The protection, promotion or preservation of the health of Individuals;
(b) The maintenance of sanitary conditions in the municipality; (c) The restriction, or potential restriction, of any individual's access To health services; (d) Any matter that may affect the personnel, financial or other resources Of a regional health board, the nisg̱a'a nation or the phsa.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), for the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of The act, the following restrictions and conditions apply:
(a) A council may not adopt a bylaw in relation to a matter referred to Only in subsection 1 (a) or (b) unless the bylaw or a copy of it is Deposited with the minister; (b) A council may not adopt a bylaw in relation to a matter referred to Only in subsection 1 (c) or (d) unless the bylaw is approved by the Minister;
(c) Before adopting a bylaw in relation to matters referred to in Subsection 1 (a), (b), (c) or (d), a council must consult with (i) The regional health board, or (ii) The medical health officer Responsible for public health matters within the municipality.
(3) A bylaw in relation to a matter referred to in both (a) Subsection (1) (a) or (b), and (b) Subsection (1) (c) or (d) Is subject to subsection 2 (b).
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Community charter , s.b.c. 2003, c. 26, section 9]