B.c. reg. 152/90 O.c. 663/90 Deposited april 26, 1990 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Local government act Regional district of fraser-cheam regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 396/94] Storm drainage 1 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the power of storm Drainage as a local service.
Enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone service 2 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone service as an extended Service.
[en. b.c. reg. 405/90.] Transit
3 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide transit as a local service.
[en. b.c. reg. 10/91.] Dyking and bank protection 4 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide dyking and bank protection as a local service.
[en. b.c. reg. 9/91.] Air quality management 5 (1) The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power, As an extended service, of planning for the establishment and Operation of the service of air quality management, including without Limitation, the development and adoption of an air quality management Plan, to be undertaken individually or in contract with or in joint Participation with one or more regional districts including the Greater vancouver regional district, the central fraser valley Regional district, and the dewdney-alouette regional district.
(2) For the purpose of establishing and operating the service of planning For the establishment and operation of the service of air quality Management, the regional district of fraser-cheam, the greater Vancouver regional district, the central fraser valley regional District and the dewdney-alouette regional district are hereby Authorized:
(a) To make expenditures necessary for the establishment and operation of The service from any surplus funds or any funds not appropriated or Committed for other purposes, from any budget of the regional district For general services or any other service; and (b) To the extent necessary to establish and operate the service, to incur A deficit for the service in 1992, on the condition that any such Deficit will be carried forward as an expenditure against the service In 1993.
[en. b.c. reg. 340/92.] Base mapping 6 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide base mapping as an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 64/93.] Property acquisition, etc.
7 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide north bend townsite property acquisition, subdivision and Disposal as a local service.
[en. b.c. reg. 129/93.] Emergency programs 8 The regional district of fraser-cheam is granted the additional power To provide emergency programs as an extended service under the Emergency program act .
[en. b.c. reg. 396/94.] [provisions of the Local government act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Section 799]