B.c. reg. 271/2005 O.c. 641/2005 Deposited september 8, 2005 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local government act Regional district electronic Meetings regulation [last amended september 29, 2021 by b.c. reg. 236/2021] Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Local government act .
Electronic regular board meetings 2 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) [procedure bylaws] Of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are Met, regular board meetings may be conducted by means of electronic or Other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a regular board Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, a board must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public (i) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting, and (ii) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the specified place, and a Designated regional district officer must be in attendance at the Specified place.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 2, s. 2.] Electronic special board meetings 3 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section Are met, special board meetings may be conducted by means of Electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a special board Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The notice under section 220 [calling of special board meetings] Of the act must include notice of the way in which the meeting is to Be conducted by means of electronic or other communication facilities And the place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, The proceedings that are open to the public; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting at the specified place, and a designated regional district Officer must be in attendance at the specified place.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 2, s. 2.] Electronic board committee meetings 4 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section Are met, board committee meetings may be conducted by means of Electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a board committee Meeting referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, a board must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the way in which the meeting is To be conducted by means of electronic or other communication Facilities, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 2, s. 2.] Electronic participation by members in board and board committee Meetings
5 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 225 (1) (a) and (b) of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section Are met, a member of the board or a board committee who is unable to Attend in person at a regular board meeting, a special board meeting Or a board committee meeting may participate in the meeting by means Of electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to In subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the participation of the member; (c) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Participation of the member.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2021, sch. 2, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local government act , r.s.b.c. 2015, c. 1, s. 221 (3).]