B.c. reg. 391/89 O.c. 1745/89 Deposited december 1, 1989 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local government act and community charter Regional district of Central okanagan regulation [last amended september 16, 2019 by b.c. reg. 163/2019] Transit service 1 The regional district of central okanagan is hereby granted the power To operate a transit service as a local service.
Emergency programs 2 The regional district of central okanagan is granted the additional Power to provide emergency programs as an extended service under the Emergency program act .
[en. b.c. reg. 445/92.] Health regulation 3 The regional district of central okanagan is granted the additional Power of health regulation under section 523 (1) (a) of the Local government act With respect to regulating persons, their premises and activities, in Order to promote the preservation of health of all inhabitants of the Electoral areas, as an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 494/94.] Business licensing 4 (1) Subject to section 6.1 (2), the regional district of central okanagan Is granted the additional powers, as an extended service, to make Bylaws under divisions 1 and 3 of part 2 and division 9 of part 3 of The
Community charter And division 3 of part 16 of the Local government act Respecting the licensing of businesses in the regional district of Central okanagan and regulating the carrying on of business in the Regional district of central okanagan.
(2) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 346/2008.] [en. b.c. reg. 355/95; am. b.c. regs. 346/2008, s. 1; 163/2019, s. 1.] Regional crime prevention 5 The regional district of central okanagan is granted the additional Power to provide regional crime prevention as an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 552/95.] Transport demand management 6 Subject to section 6.1 (2), the regional district of central okanagan Is granted the additional power to provide transport demand management As an extended service.
[en. b.c. reg. 104/99; am. b.c. reg. 163/2019, s. 2.] Restrictions on authority to regulate In relation to passenger directed vehicles 6.1 (1) In this section:
"passenger directed vehicle" Has the same meaning as in the Passenger transportation act ; "passenger directed vehicle authorization" Has the same meaning as in the Passenger transportation act ; "regional district" Means the regional district of central okanagan; "transportation network services authorization" Has the same meaning as in the Passenger transportation act .
(2) The regional district must not, in exercising its additional powers Under section 4 (1) or 6, (a) Regulate in relation to the number of passenger directed vehicles that May be operated under passenger directed vehicle authorizations or Transportation network services authorizations, or (b) Prohibit vehicles referred to in paragraph (a) from operating in the Regional district, including, without limitation, by prohibiting the Issuance of a licence to a person to operate a vehicle referred to in That paragraph for the sole reason that the person holds a licence, Issued by a municipality or another regional district, to operate the Vehicle.
[en. b.c. reg. 163/2019, s. 3.] Explosives
7 (1) The regional district of central okanagan is granted the additional Power to do one or more of the following by bylaw:
(a) Regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation to the use of Explosives;
(b) Regulate and impose requirements on persons using explosives; (c) Require persons using explosives to provide the regional district of Central okanagan with security in a form satisfactory to the board of The regional district of central okanagan for the purpose set out in The bylaw.
(2) The regional district of central okanagan must deal with the security As follows:
(a) Interest on the security becomes part of the security; (b) The security may be used only for the purpose for which it was Provided;
(c) Any amount not required for that purpose must be returned to the Person who provided the security.
[en. b.c. reg. 98/2007.] Intermunicipal scheme respecting businesses 8 (1) In this section, "regional district" Means the regional district of central okanagan.
(2) The regional district and one or more municipalities may, by bylaw Adopted by the board of the regional district and by bylaw adopted by The council of each participating municipality, establish an Intermunicipal scheme respecting the licensing and regulating of Businesses.
(3) A bylaw under subsection (2) may do one or more of the following:
(a) Provide that the bylaws of one or more of the participating local Governments in relation to the matters dealt with by the scheme apply In the regional district or a participating municipality; (b) Provide that the local government powers, duties and functions of one Or more of the participating local governments may be exercised in Relation to the scheme in the regional district or a participating Municipality;
(c) Provide that the council of one or more of the participating Municipalities may delegate under division 6 [delegation] Of part 5 [municipal government and procedures] Of the Community charter To
(i) Council members, council committees, officers, employees and other Bodies referred to in section 154 (1) [delegation of council authority] Of the Community charter Of another participating municipality, or (ii) Directors, board committees, officers, employees and other bodies Referred to in section 176 (1) (e) [corporate powers — delegation] Of the Local government act Of the regional district; (d) Provide that the board of the regional district may delegate under Division 6
[delegation of board authority] Of part 5 [regional district corporate powers and their use] Of the Local government act To council members, council committees, officers, employees and other Bodies referred to in section 154 (1) [delegation of council authority] Of the Community charter Of a participating municipality; (e) Restrict the regional district or a participating municipality from Separately exercising its authority in relation to the matters dealt With by the scheme; (f) Establish the process by which the regional district or a Participating municipality may withdraw from the scheme.
(4) Section 13
[services outside municipality] Of the Community charter And section 796.1 [consent required for services outside regional district] Of the Local government act Do not apply in respect of an intermunicipal service scheme Established under this section.
[en. b.c. reg. 346/2008, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local government act , r.s.b.c. 2015, c. 1, s. 296*, and the Community charter , s.b.c. 2003, c. 26, s. 281.] *internal cross references to the Local government act In this regulation are to r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 323.