B.c. reg. 261/2004 O.c. 549/2004 Deposited june 11, 2004 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Local government act Regional district liabilities regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 118/2018, june 15, 2018] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"agreement liability" Means a liability referred to in section 175 (1) [liabilities under agreements] Of the Community charter , as it applies to regional districts under section 403 [borrowing and liability: application of community charter] Of the Local government act ; "elector approval" Means,
(a) In relation to an agreement liability, approval of the electors under Section 175 (2) of the Community charter As it applies to regional districts under section 403 of the Local government act , and (b) In relation to a loan authorization bylaw, participating area approval Under section 407 (1) [participating area approval required for some loan authorization Bylaws]
Of the Local government act .
[am. b.c. reg. 118/2018, s. 8.] Certain types of agreement liabilities exempt 2 Elector approval for an agreement liability is not required unless the Liability is one of the following:
(a) A liability of a capital nature, whether or not it is or includes a Contingent commitment; (b) A loan guarantee given by a regional district.
Regional park and regional trail borrowing 3 Elector approval is not required if (a) The liability is borrowing for the purpose of a regional park or Regional trail service of the regional district, (b) The total of the outstanding amount of borrowing for the service and The amount proposed to be borrowed will not exceed the greater of (i) $5 million, and (ii) An amount equal to $5 per thousand dollars of net taxable value of Land and improvements in the regional district, and (c) The bylaw or resolution, as applicable, receives the consent of the Participants as provided in section 349 (1) (b) of the Local government act .
[am. b.c. reg. 118/2018, s. 9.] Drinking water protection orders — installation of treatment works 4 Elector approval is not required if (a) The liability is to be incurred for the purpose of complying with an Order of a drinking water officer under the Drinking water protection act That expressly requires the regional district to install treatment Works, and (b) The inspector of municipalities approves the proposed liability.
Liquid waste management plans 5 Elector approval is not required if the liability is to be incurred For the purpose of (a) Submitting a waste management plan under section 24 (2) of the Environmental management act For approval by the minister, (b) Preparing or revising, under the direction of the minister under Section 24 (3) (a) of the Environmental management act , a waste management plan respecting the management of municipal Liquid waste, or (c) Implementing all or part of, or an amendment to, a waste management Plan approved by the minister under section 24 (5) of the Environmental management act Respecting the management of municipal liquid waste, and The inspector of municipalities approves the proposed liability.
[en. b.c. reg. 97/2007.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Local government act , r.s.b.c. 2015, c. 1, s. 783]