B.c. reg. 713/74 W.c.b.
Filed october 21, 1974 Effective january 1, 1975 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Workers compensation act Reports of injuries regulations [last amended april 6, 2020 by b.c. reg. 279/2019] Minor injuries — not reportable 1 Where none of the conditions listed in section 2 (a) to (h) is Present, an injury is a minor injury and not required to be reported To the board unless one of those conditions subsequently occurs.
[am. b.c. reg. 279/2019, app. e, s. 1.] Reportable injuries 2 A reportable injury is an injury arising out of and in the course of a Worker's employment to which the compensation provisions of the Workers compensation act Apply, or which is claimed by the worker concerned to have arisen out Of and in the course of such employment, and in respect of which any One of the following conditions is present or subsequently occurs:
(a) The worker loses consciousness following the injury; (b) The worker is transported or directed by a first aid attendant or Other representative of the employer to a hospital or other place of Medical treatment, or is recommended by such person to go to such Place;
(c) The injury is one that obviously requires medical treatment; (d) The worker states an intention to seek medical treatment; (e) The worker has received medical treatment for the injury; (f) The worker is unable or claims to be unable by reason of the injury to Return to the worker's usual job function on any working day Subsequent to the day of injury; (g) The injury or accident resulted or is claimed to have resulted in the Breakage of an artificial member, eyeglasses, dentures or a hearing Aid;
(h) The worker or the board has requested that an employer's report be Sent to the board.
[am. b.c. reg. 279/2019, app. e, ss. 1 and 2.] Commencement of obligation to report 3 The obligation of the employer to report the injury to the board Commences when a supervisor, first aid attendant or other Representative of the employer first becomes aware of any one of the Conditions listed in section 2, or when notification of any such Condition is received by mail or telephone at the local or head office Of the employer.
[am. b.c. reg. 279/2019, app. e, s. 1.] Repealed
4 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 279/2019, app. e, s. 3.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of these regulations:
Workers compensation act , r.s.b.c. 2019, c. 1, s. 150.]