B.c. reg. 7/2015 O.c. 14/2015 Deposited january 19, 2015 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Animal health act Reportable and notifiable disease regulation Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Animal health act .
Prescribed diseases 2 (1) The environmental toxins, infestations, syndromes and transmissible Diseases listed or described in appendix 1 are prescribed as Reportable diseases for the purposes of the act.
(2) The environmental toxins, infestations, syndromes and transmissible Diseases listed or described in appendix 2 are prescribed as Notifiable diseases for the purposes of the act.
(3) In appendix 1 and 2, if a reference to a disease or infestation is Followed by italicized text in square brackets that is or purports to Be descriptive of the disease or infestation, the italicized text in Square brackets is not part of this regulation and is to be considered To have been added editorially for convenience of reference.
Records and samples 3 (1) A person who makes a report under section 20 [mandatory reporting] Of the act must keep the following in relation to the report:
(a) A record of the matters described in section 20 (3) (a) to (e) of the Act, for at least 30 days after making the report; (b) All records within the person's possession or control that are Relevant to information requested under section 20 (3) (g) of the act, For at least 30 days after making the report; (c) All samples taken for the purpose of making a diagnosis of a Reportable or notifiable disease, or unusual illness, for at least 7 Days after making the report.
(2) A person who makes a report under section 20 of the act must (a) Keep and produce records in accordance with section 19 [duty to keep records] Of the act, and (b) Provide to the chief veterinarian, on request of the chief Veterinarian and within the time requested, a sample referred to in Subsection (1) (c) of this section.
(3) Despite subsection (1), the chief veterinarian may request a person to Keep a record or sample referred to in that subsection for a longer Period, and the person must comply with that request.
Making reports 4 (1) The chief veterinarian may (a) Establish forms for the purposes of making a report under section 6 (2) [must comply with veterinary advice] , 20 [mandatory reporting] Or 21
[mandatory diagnostic examination and reporting ] of the act, and (b) Issue instructions respecting the manner in which a report may be Made.
(2) A person who must make a report under section 6 (2), 20 or 21 of the Act must use all applicable forms established, and comply with all Applicable instructions issued, under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) A person must make a report as follows:
(a) For the purposes of section 6 (2) of the act, within 24 hours of Becoming aware of the non-compliance with instructions given under Section 6 (1) of the act; (b) For the purposes of section 20 of the act, within 24 hours of becoming Aware of the applicable matter described in section 20 (2) of the act; (c) For the purposes of section 21 of the act, within the time set out in The order issued under section 21 (1) of the act.
(4) If the chief veterinarian permits a report to be sent by courier or Regular mail, the report is deemed to have been made on the date Stamped on the envelope by canada post or another delivery agent.
Appendix 1
Reportable diseases (section 2 (1)) Bee diseases 1 (1) Infestations of the following are prescribed as reportable diseases in Respect of bees:
(a) Aethina tumida [small hive beetle] ; (b) Apis cerana [eastern honey bee or asian honey bee] ; (c) Apis mellifera capensis [cape bee] ; (d) Apis mellifera scutellata [african honey bee] ; (e) Apis vilutina [asian predatory wasp] ; (f) Tropilaelaps clareae [asian bee mites] ; (g) Vespa mandarinia [asian giant hornet] .
(2) Illness in bees caused by american foulbrood is prescribed as a Reportable disease.
Bird diseases 2 (1) The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Birds:
(a) Fowl typhoid caused by Salmonella gallinarum ; (b) Any strain of h5 or h7 avian influenza a virus; (c) Infectious laryngotracheitis; (d) Mycoplasma gallisepticum , but only in turkeys kept or dealt with for commercial purposes; (e) Newcastle disease; (f) Pullorum diseases caused by Salmonella pullorum .
(2) Avian influenza a viruses other than strains of h5 or h7 are Prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of birds if there is (a) A positive influenza a matrix pcr result, and (b) High flock morbidity showing severe clinical signs, including any of The following:
(i) Signs of respiratory distress; (ii) Swelling of the sinuses or head; (iii) Reduced vocalization; (iv) A marked reduction in food or water intake; (v) Cyanosis of the unfeathered skin, wattles and comb; (vi) Uncoordinated or nervous behaviour; (vii) Diarrhea;
(viii) A marked drop in egg production; (ix) A high and rapidly escalating flock mortality.
Cattle diseases 3 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Cattle:
(a) Bovine cysticercosis; (b) Bovine spongiform encephalopathy; (c) Bovine tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium bovis ; (d) Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia; (e) Lumpy skin disease.
Crustacean diseases 4 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Crustaceans:
(a) Taura syndrome; (b) White spot disease; (c) Yellow head disease.
Finfish diseases 5 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Finfish:
(a) Ceratomyxosis caused by Ceratomyxa shasta ; (b) Epizootic haematopoietic necrosis; (c) Infectious haematopoietic necrosis; (d) Infectious pancreatic necrosis; (e) Infectious salmon anaemia; (f) Koi herpesvirus disease; (g) Spring viraemia of carp; (h) Whirling disease caused by Myxobolus cerebralis ; (i) White sturgeon iridoviral disease.
Horse diseases 6 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Horses:
(a) African horse sickness; (b) Contagious equine metritis; (c) Eastern, western and venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis; (d) Equine infectious anaemia; (e) Equine piroplasmosis caused by Babesia caballi Or
Theileria equi .
Mollusc diseases 7 (1) Illness in molluscs caused by any of the following is prescribed as a Reportable disease:
(a) Bonamia ostreae ; (b) Marteilia refringens ; (c) Marteiliodes chungmuensis ; (d) Mikrocytos mackini ; (e) Perkinsus marinus ; (f) Perkinsus olseni .
(2) Msx disease caused by Haplosporidium nelsoni In molluscs is prescribed as a reportable disease.
Sheep and goat diseases 8 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Sheep and goats:
(a) Peste des petits ruminants; (b) Scrapie;
(c) Sheep and goat pox.
Swine diseases 9 The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of Swine:
(a) African swine fever; (b) Classical swine fever; (c) Swine vesicular disease.
Diseases affecting multiple species 10 (1) The following are prescribed as reportable diseases in respect of any Animal:
(a) Anthrax;
(b) Bluetongue;
(c) Brucellosis caused by Brucella abortus , Melitensis
, Ovis
Or
Suis
; (d) Chronic wasting disease of cervids; (e) Foot and mouth disease; (f) Plague caused by Yersina pestis ; (g) Pseudorabies;
(h) Q fever caused by Coxiella burnetti ; (i) Rabies;
(j) Rift valley fever; (k) Rinderpest;
(l) Trichinellosis caused by Trichinella sprialis ; (m) Tularaemia caused by Francisella tularensis ; (n) Vesicular stomatitis.
(2) The following zoonotic viral hemorrhagic fevers are prescribed as Reportable diseases in respect of any animal:
(a) Arenaviruses chapare, guanarito, junin, lassa, lujo, machupo and Sabia;
(b) Bunyaviruses;
(c) Filoviruses ebola and marburg; (d) Flaviviruses kyasanur forest disease virus, omsk hemorrhagic fever and Yellow fever; (e) Hantaviruses dobrava, haantan, puumala, saaremaa and seoul; (f) Nairovirus crimean-congo hemorrhagic fever.
(3) Without limiting section 20 (2) (c) [mandatory reporting] Of the act, an illness affecting any animal that is known to be, or That may be, zoonotic in nature is prescribed as a reportable disease If any of the following signs or indicators are present:
(a) The illness has never, or has rarely been, observed in british Columbia;
(b) The illness appears in a species in which the disease has never, or Has rarely, been observed; (c) The illness has, or appears to have, a higher pathogenicity than Usual.
(4) An illness in any animal is prescribed as a reportable disease if Clusters of the illness include more animals, appear more frequently, Or appear over a larger geographic area than usual.
(5) Illness in any animal caused by any of the following environmental Toxins is prescribed as a reportable disease:
(a) Asbestos;
(b) Creosote;
(c) Dioxins;
(d) Fuel, if it contains, or may contain, a substance that is toxic to Animals;
(e) Lead;
(f) Poly-chlorinated biphenyls (pcbs).
Appendix 2
Notifiable diseases (section 2 (2)) Bee diseases 1 (1) Infestations of the following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in Respect of bees:
(a) Acarine disease [tracheal mite infestation] ; (b) Achroia grisella [lesser wax moth] ; (c) Galleria mellonella [greater wax moth] ; (d) Varroa mite.
(2) Illness in bees caused by any of the following are prescribed as Notifiable diseases:
(a) Acute bee paralysis virus; (b) Black queen cell virus; (c) Chalkbrood;
(d) Deformed wing virus; (e) European foulbrood; (f) Israel acute paralysis virus; (g) Kashmir bee virus; (h) Nosema disease; (i) Sacbrood disease virus; (j) Varroa destructor virus.
Bird diseases 2 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Birds:
(a) Avian chlamydiosis caused by Chlamydophila psittaci ; (b) Influenza a in poultry, other than as described in section 1 (1) (b) Or (2) of appendix 1; (c) Fowl cholera caused by Pasteurella multocida ; (d) Fowl pox.
Cattle diseases 3 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Cattle:
(a) Bovine trichomoniasis; (b) Bovine genital campylabacteriosis.
Crustacean diseases 4 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Crustaceans:
(a) Crayfish plague caused by Aphanomyces astaci ; (b) Infectious hypodermal and haematopoietic necrosis caused by infectious Hypodermal and haematopoietic necrosis virus; (c) Infectious myonecrosis caused by infectious myonecrosis virus; (d) Necrotizing hepatopancreatitis; (e) White tail disease caused by macrobrachium rosenbergii nodavirus and Extra small virus.
Finfish diseases 5 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Finfish:
(a) Bacterial kidney disease caused by Renibacterium salmoninarum ; (b) Enteric red mouth disease caused by Yersinia ruckeri ; (c) Epizootic ulcerative syndrome caused by Aphanomyces invadans ; (d) Furunculosis caused by Aeromonas salmonicida ; (e) Gyrodactylosis caused by Gyrodactylus salaris ; (f) Oncorhynchus masou virus disease caused by oncorhynchus masou virus; (g) Red sea bream iridoviral disease caused by red sea bream iridovirus; (h) Streptococcosis caused by Streptococcus iniae ; (i) Viral haemorrhagic septicaemia.
Horse diseases 6 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Horses:
(a) Equine herpes myeloencepalopathy; (b) Equine rhinopneumonitis; (c) Equine viral arteritis.
Mollusc diseases 7 (1) Illness in molluscs caused by any of the following is prescribed as a Notifiable disease:
(a) Bonamia exitiosa ; (b) Bonamia roughleyi ; (c) Marteilia sydneyi .
(2) The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Molluscs:
(a) Abalone viral mortality caused by abalone herpes-like virus; (b) Brown ring disease caused by Vibrio tapetis ; (c) Qpx caused by quahog parasite unknown; (d) Seaside organism disease caused by Haplosporidium costale ; (e) Withering syndrome of abalone caused by Xenohaliotis californiensis .
Swine diseases 8 The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of Swine:
(a) Swine delta coronavirus; (b) Influenza a; (c) Porcine epidemic diarrhea; (d) Transmissible gastroenteritis.
Diseases affecting multiple species 9 (1) The following are prescribed as notifiable diseases in respect of any Animal:
(a) Anaplasmosis;
(b) Epizootic hemorrhagic disease; (c) Johne's disease; (d) Lyme disease caused by Borrelia burgdorferi ; (e) Malignant catarrhal fever; (f) Rocky mountain spotted fever caused by Rickettsia rickettsii ; (g) Salmonella dublin ; (h) Salmonella enteritidis ; (i) Salmonella heidelberg ; (j) Salmonella typhimurium ; (k) West nile virus.
(2) Salmonella of a type described in subsection (1) (g) to (j) is Prescribed as a notifiable disease if found in an environmental sample Taken in a place where an animal is, or has been, housed.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Animal health act , s.b.c. 2014, c. 16, sections 93 (2), 94 (1) (a) and 96 (1) (a) and (b) And (2) (b) and (c)]