B.c. reg. 103/2007 O.c. 229/2007 Deposited april 26, 2007 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Representative for children and youth act Representative for Children and youth regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 142/2019, july 3, 2019] Definition
0.1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Representative for children and youth act .
[en. b.c. regs. 324/2007 and 401/2007.] Procedure for appointment of deputy representative 1 In order to appoint a deputy representative, the representative must Use a merit based process to select the successful candidate.
Qualifications of deputy representative 2 A deputy representative appointed under the act must have the Following qualifications:
(a) A degree from a university or college, with standards and credentials Acceptable to the representative, in a discipline the representative Considers relevant; (b) Experience
(i) Working with children, (ii) Respecting the provision of one or more designated services, as Defined in the act, or experience, in british columbia or another Jurisdiction, that is substantially similar to this type of Experience,
(iii) Investigating the critical injuries of children or the deaths of Children, or (iv) In financial or business administration; (c) Experience in a senior management role; (d) Understanding of, or experience working with, aboriginal children, Families or communities, if the deputy representative has the Experience described in paragraph (b) (i), (ii) or (iii).
Additional designated services 3 For the purposes of the definition of "designated services" in the Act, the following services or programs are prescribed:
(a) Services or programs under the Youth criminal justice act (canada); (b) The child in the home of a relative program, respecting which income Assistance is provided under section 6 of the employment and Assistance regulation; (c) Services or programs for children with special needs provided or Funded by the ministry of the minister responsible for the Child, family and community service act .
[en. b.c. reg. 296/2008, s. 1; am. b.c. reg. 142/2019, s. 1.] Additional reviewable services 4 For the purposes of the definition of "reviewable services" in the Act, the following services or programs are prescribed:
(a) Services or programs under the Youth criminal justice act (canada); (b) The child in the home of a relative program, respecting which income Assistance is provided under section 6 of the employment and Assistance regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 296/2008, s. 1.] Services or programs for young adults 4.1 For the purposes of section 6 (1) (a.1) of the act, the following Services or programs are prescribed:
(a) Community living support provided or funded under the Community living authority act ; (b) Support services or financial assistance provided under an agreement Made under section 12.3 of the Child, family and community service act ; (c) The provincial tuition waiver program administered by the ministry of The minister responsible for the College and institute act .
[en. b.c. reg. 142/2019, s. 2.] Repealed
5 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/2008, s. 1.] Multidisciplinary team 6 (1) Members appointed by the representative to the multidisciplinary team Established under section 15 of the act may include (a) Individuals with expertise in the following disciplines:
(i) Child welfare; (ii) Pathology;
(iii) Pediatric medicine; (iv) Nursing;
(v) Education;
(vi) Public health; (vii) Special needs and developmental disabilities, and (b) Representatives of the following:
(i) The aboriginal community; (ii) The ministry of children and family development; (iii) The coroners service of british columbia; (iv) The royal canadian mounted police or a municipal police force.
(2) An appointment to the multidisciplinary team is for a term of up to 2 Years, as set by the representative, and may be renewed by the Representative.
(3) In addition to members appointed for a term as described in subsection (2), the representative may appoint members to the multidisciplinary Team on an ad hoc basis, for the purposes of one or more reviews or Investigations under part 4 of the act, as the representative Considers advisable based on the circumstances of the matter under Review or investigation.
(4) Before participating on the multidisciplinary team, a member must sign And file with the representative an undertaking to comply with any Standards of conduct issued by the representative.
(5) Meetings of the multidisciplinary team must be chaired by the Representative or a person from the representative's office assigned By the representative.
(6) The representative may (a) Reimburse the members of the multidisciplinary team, in accordance With general directives of the treasury board, for reasonable and Necessary travelling and out of pocket expenses incurred in carrying Out their duties, and (b) Pay the members a fee set by the representative.
[en. b.c. reg. 296/2008, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Representative for children and youth act , s.b.c. 2006, c. 29, s. 29.]