B.c. reg. 199/2011 Oil and gas commission Deposited november 25, 2011 This consolidation is current to august 29, 2023.
See the Cumulative b.c. regulations bulletin 2023 For amendments effective after august 29, 2023.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Oil and gas activities act Service regulation [last amended june 1, 2021 by b.c. reg. 52/2021] Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Oil and gas activities act ; "local authority" Means a municipality or a regional district; "local indigenous nation" Means, as applicable, a local indigenous nation as defined in (a) Section 1 of the dormancy and shutdown regulation, or (b) Section 1 of the oil and gas road regulation.
[en. b.c. reg. 52/2021, s. 1.] Prescribed methods of service 2 (1) In addition to the methods of service set out in section 79 (1) (a) And (c) of the act, the following methods of service are prescribed For the service of documents under the act on a person who is not a Permit holder or an authorization holder, other than a local Authority, local indigenous nation or first nation:
(a) By leaving a copy with an agent of that person; (b) By sending a copy by ordinary mail or registered mail to the address At which that person resides or carries on business; (c) By sending a copy by electronic transmission using the contact Information provided by that person; (d) By leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot for the address at which That person resides or carries on business; (e) By attaching a copy to a door or other conspicuous place at the Address at which that person resides or carries on business.
(1.1) In addition to the methods of service set out in section 79 (1) (a) And (c) of the act, the following methods of service are prescribed For the service of documents under the act on a local authority, local Indigenous nation or first nation that is not a permit holder or an Authorization holder:
(a) By leaving a copy with (i) An agent of the local authority, local indigenous nation or first Nation, or (ii) A contact person specified by the local authority, local indigenous Nation or first nation; (b) By sending a copy by ordinary mail or registered mail to (i) The address of a contact person specified by the local authority, Local indigenous nation or first nation, or (ii) If no contact person is specified, the address at which the local Authority, local indigenous nation or first nation carries on Business;
(c) By sending a copy by electronic transmission (i) Using the contact information of a contact person specified by the Local authority, local indigenous nation or first nation, or (ii) If no contact person is specified, to the local authority, local Indigenous nation or first nation, using the contact information Provided by that local authority, local indigenous nation or first Nation;
(d) By leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot for (i) The address of a contact person specified by the local authority, Local indigenous nation or first nation, or (ii) If no contact person is specified, the address at which the local Authority, local indigenous nation or first nation carries on Business.
(2) A document given or served in accordance with subsection (1) or (1.1) Is deemed to be received as follows:
(a) If given or served by sending a copy by ordinary or registered mail, On the 14th day after it is mailed; (b) If given or served by sending a copy by electronic transmission, on The 3rd day after it is sent; (c) If given or served by leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot, on the 3rd day after it is left; (d) If given or served by attaching a copy to a door or other conspicuous Place, on the 3rd day after it is attached.
[am. b.c. reg. 52/2021, s. 2.] [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Oil and gas activities act , s.b.c. 2008, c. 36, s. 112 (1) (l).]