B.c. reg. 144/2004 M71/2004
Deposited march 26, 2004 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Community charter Spheres of concurrent jurisdiction — Environment and wildlife regulation [last amended july 26, 2021 by b.c. reg. 219/2021] Part 1 — interpretation Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Community charter .
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 1.] Part 2 — pest management Definitions for part 2 1.1 In this part:
"alien invasive species" Means the species listed in sections 1 and 2 of the schedule; "dangerous wildlife" Has the same meaning as in the Wildlife act ; "excluded pesticide" Has the same meaning as in the integrated pest management regulation, B.c. reg. 604/2004.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 1.] Municipal jurisdiction in relation to the environment and wildlife 2 (1) For the purposes of section 9 (4) (a) (i) of the act, a municipality May,
(a) Under section 8 (3) (j) of the act, regulate, prohibit and impose Requirements in relation to polluting or obstructing, or impeding the Flow of, a stream, creek, waterway, watercourse, waterworks, ditch, Drain or sewer, whether or not it is located on private property, (b) Regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation to, (i) Under section 8 (3) (j) of the act, the sale of wild flowers, (ii) Subject to subsection (2), under section 8 (3) (j) of the act, the Application of pesticides, except excluded pesticides, for the purpose Of maintaining outdoor trees, shrubs, flowers, other ornamental plants And turf on a parcel or a part of a parcel if the parcel or part is Used for residential purposes, or on land vested in the municipality, (iii) Under section 8 (3) (j) and (k) of the act, the control and Eradication of alien invasive species, and (iv) Under section 8 (3) (k) of the act, the control of wildlife species Listed in schedule b or c to the designation and exemption regulation, B.c. reg. 168/90, and (c) Under section 8 (3) (k) of the act, regulate, prohibit and impose Requirements respecting the feeding or attracting of dangerous Wildlife or members of the family cervidae.
(2) For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the act, a municipality may Not exercise the authority under subsection (1) (b) (ii) of this Regulation in relation to the application of pesticides (a) For the management of pests that transmit human diseases or impact Agriculture or forestry, (b) On the residential areas of farms, (c) To buildings or inside buildings, or (d) On land used for agriculture, forestry, transportation, public Utilities or pipelines unless the public utility or pipeline is vested In the municipality.
(3) For the purposes of subsection 9 (4) (b) of the act, the exercise of The authority under subsection (1) (c) is subject to the condition That the bylaw must exempt from its application all the following:
(a) A person who is engaging in hunting or trapping wildlife in accordance With the Wildlife act And its regulations; (b) A farm operation, as defined in section 1 of the Farm practices protection (right to farm) act , that (i) Is conducted on, in or over land anywhere in british columbia, and (ii) Meets the requirements set out in section 2 (2) (a) and (c) of that Act;
(c) A facility for the disposal of waste that is operated in accordance With the Environmental management act By a municipality, a regional district, an improvement district that Has as an object the disposal of sewage or refuse or the provision of A system for the disposal of sewage or refuse or the greater vancouver Sewerage and drainage district.
[am. b.c. regs. 326/2005, s. (b); 235/2008, ss. 2 to 4.] Part 3 — plastic waste reduction Definitions for part 3 and interpretation 3 (1) In this part:
"accessible straw" Means a drinking straw made wholly of plastic that is not compostable Or biodegradable, has a corrugated section that allows the straw to Bend and maintain its position and is individually wrapped in paper; "checkout bag" Means a paper or plastic single-use supplementary bag; "introductory period" Means a period that may be set by a municipality during which there is A reduced minimum charge for the provision of a recycled paper bag or A reusable bag; "item" Means the applicable of the following:
(a) A bag; (b) A service ware container; (c) A utensil; (d) A drinking straw; "plastic" Includes compostable and biodegradable plastic; "polystyrene foam" , when used in reference to an item, means an item made primarily of Polystyrene foam; "recycled paper bag" Means a paper checkout bag that meets the criteria described in Subsection (2);
"reusable bag" Means a bag that is designed and manufactured to be used and Machine-washed at least 100 times; "service ware container" Means a container that is ordinarily provided for service of prepared Food or beverages and includes a cup, plate, bowl, tray, carton or Lidded container; "single-use" , when used in reference to an item, means the item is provided for a Single use or a short-term purpose; "small paper bag" Means a paper bag that is less than 15 cm by 20 cm when flat; "stir stick" Means an item that is designed and manufactured to stir beverages; "supplementary" , when used in reference to an item, means an item that is provided to A customer by a business to facilitate the transport of a purchase From the business, or consumption of a product, including prepared Food that is purchased for take-out or delivery; "used bag" Means a checkout bag or a reusable bag that has been previously used And is being reused; "utensil" Includes a spoon, fork, knife, chopstick or stir stick.
(2) In order to be considered recycled for the purposes of this part, a Paper checkout bag must contain at least 40% recycled paper content, And have a reference printed on the outside of the bag to the Applicable amount of recycled content with the word "recyclable".
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 2.] Application of this part 4 The authority to make a bylaw under section 5 to regulate, prohibit And impose requirements in relation to the protection of the natural Environment does not apply to the sale of single-use items that are Sold as a product, ordinarily in sets of multiple items.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 2.] Authority of municipality 5 (1) For the purposes of section 9 (4) (a) (i) of the act, a municipality May, by bylaw, regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation To the protection of the natural environment under section 8 (3) (j) Of the act as set out in this section and in accordance with this Part.
(2) Subject to subsections (3), (4) and (5), a municipality may, by bylaw, Do any of the following:
(a) Prohibit a business from providing any of the following single-use Supplementary items:
(i) Checkout bags other than (a) Recycled paper bags, or (b) Used bags; (ii) Polystyrene foam service ware containers; (iii) Plastic utensils; (iv) Plastic drinking straws; (b) If the municipality has prohibited a business from providing checkout Bags under paragraph (a) (i), require that a business provide a Recycled paper bag or a reusable bag to a customer only on payment of A minimum charge for each bag, as follows:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii), a charge of at least (a) $0.25 for each recycled paper bag, and (b) $2 for each reusable bag; (ii) If the municipality sets an introductory period, a charge during the Introductory period of at least (a) $0.15 for each recycled paper bag, and (b) $1 for each reusable bag; (c) If paragraph (a) (iii) or (iv) does not apply, require that a business Provide the following, as applicable, to a customer only on request by The customer:
(i) A single-use utensil; (ii) Subject to the exemption under subsection (4), a drinking straw made Of a material other than plastic; (d) Set out exemptions to the bylaw, including the exemption under Subsection (4), if applicable, to the prohibitions and requirements Under this subsection; (e) Require that a business report to the municipality the distribution of Items governed by a bylaw made under this section.
(3) If a municipality makes a bylaw prohibiting a business from providing Checkout bags other than recycled paper bags under subsection (2) (a) (i), (a) The bylaw must provide for the payment of a minimum charge for Recycled paper bags or reusable bags under subsection (2) (b), and (b) The bylaw must include an exemption from the payment of the minimum Charge for the following:
(i) Used bags; (ii) Small paper bags; (iii) In the case of prescribed pharmaceutical drugs or devices, recycled Paper bags.
(4) If a municipality makes a bylaw prohibiting plastic drinking straws Under subsection (2) (a) (iv), the bylaw must have an exemption so That businesses would not be prevented from providing an accessible Straw on request by a person with disabilities or due to medical Reasons.
(5) The authority of a municipality to make a bylaw under this section Does not include the authority to permit businesses to collect, use or Disclose personal information for considering a person's entitlement To an exemption in respect of the bylaw.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 2.] Exemptions to be considered and plan for implementation and Enforcement
6 A municipality that intends to make a bylaw under section 5 must (a) Consider appropriate exemptions in respect of the bylaw, including Exemptions for (i) Persons with disabilities, (ii) Medical reasons, (iii) A hospital or any facility licensed as a community care facility under The
Community care and assisted living act , and (iv) In the case of a charge referred to in section 5 (2) (b), reasons of Financial hardship, (b) Establish a plan for (i) Implementation of the bylaw, which may include setting an introductory Period of not more than 12 months for the charge referred to in Section 5 (2) (b) (ii), and (ii) Enforcement of the bylaw, and (c) Set a date for the bylaw to come into force that is at least 6 months After the date the bylaw is adopted by council.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 2.] Charge not a fee payable to municipality 7 An amount charged in accordance with the authority referred to in Section 5 (2) (b) must not be collected by the municipality as a fee Payable to the municipality.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2021, s. 2.] Schedule
1 The following species are, for the purposes of this regulation, alien Invasive species.
Plants
Annual sow thistle (sonchus oleraceus) Canada thistle (cirsium arvense) Common crupina (crupina vulgaris) Common toadflax (linaria vulgaris) Dalmatian toadflax (linaria dalmatica) Diffuse knapweed (centaurea diffusa) Dodder
(cuscuta spp.) Gorse
(ulex europaeus) Hound's-tongue (cynoglossum officinale) Jointed goatgrass (aegilops cylindrica) Leafy spurge (euphorbia esula) Perennial sow thistle (sonchus arvensis) Purple nutsedge (cyperus rotundus) Rush skeletonweed (chondrilla juncea) Scentless chamomile (matricaria maritima) Spotted knapweed (centaurea maculosa) Tansy ragwort (senecio jacobaea) Velvetleaf
(abutilon theophrasti) Wild oats (avena fatua) Yellow nutsedge (cyperus esculentus) Yellow starthistle (centaurea solstitialis) Terrestrial vascular plants Smooth brome grass Downy brome grass Orchard grass (coast) Scotch broom Spurge laurel Common barnyard grass English ivy St. john's wort Himalayan blackberry Yellow salsify Common crupina Bull thistle Nodding thistle Giant knotweed Kudzu
Japanese knotweed Giant knotweed Giant hogweed Poison hemlock Yellow toadflax Carpet burweed Baby's breath Parasitic dodder Himalayan balsam Saltcedar
Garlic mustard Fresh water/riparian vascular plants Flowering rush Purple loosestrife Eurasian watermilfoil Common reed Curly pondweed Reed canary grass Yellow flag Hydrilla
Invertebrates
Gypsy moth Blueberry maggot Balsam woolly adelgid Japanese cedar longhorn beetle Japanese beetle Pine shoot beetle Asian long-horned beetle Cereal leaf beetle Daylily midge European chafer European brown garden snail Oriental fruit moth Apple maggot Plum curculio Vertebrates
Bullfrog
(rana catesbeiana) Green frog (rana clamitans) Rock dove (columba livia) European starling (sturnus vulgaris) House sparrow (passer domesticus) North american opossum (didelphis virginiana) European rabbit (oryctolagus cuniculus) Eastern cottontail (sylvilagus floridanus) Nutria
(myocastor coypu) Gray squirrel (sciurus carolinensis) Fox squirrel (sciurus niger) 2 The species set out in column 1 of table 1 are, for the purposes of this Regulation, alien invasive species in a regional district set out Opposite in column 2.
Table 1
Column 1
Species
Column 2
Area of the province Blueweed
(echium vulgare) Cariboo, central kootenay, columbia-shuswap, east kootenay, Okanagan-similkameen, thompson-nicola Burdock
(arctium spp.) Bulkley-nechako, cariboo, columbia-shuswap, fraser-fort george, Kitimat-stikine, north okanagan, okanagan-similkameen, peace River, thompson-nicola Cleavers
(galium aparine) Peace river Common bugloss (anchusa officinalis) Kootenay-boundary Common tansy (tanacetum vulgare) Bulkley-nechako, central kootenay, columbia-shuswap, east Kootenay, north okanagan Field scabious (knautia arvensis) Bulkley-nechako, kootenay-boundary, thompson-nicola Green foxtail (setaria viridis) Peace river Hoary alyssum (berteroa incana) Kootenay-boundary Hoary cress (cardaria spp.) Columbia-shuswap, north okanagan, thompson-nicola Kochia
(kochia scoparia) Peace river Marsh plume thistle (cirsium palustre) Bulkley-nechako, fraser-fort george Meadow knapweed (centaurea pratensis) Columbia-shuswap Night-flowering catchfly (silene noctiflora) Peace river Orange hawkweed (hieracium aurantiacum) Bulkley-nechako, cariboo, central kootenay, columbia-shuswap, east Kootenay, thompson-nicola Oxeye daisy (chrysanthemum leucanthemum) Cariboo, north okanagan, peace river, thompson-nicola Perennial pepperweed (lepidium latifolium) East kootenay, thompson-nicola Plumeless thistle (carduus acanthoides) Central kootenay Puncturevine
(tribulus terrestris) Okanagan-similkameen Quackgrass
(agropyron repens) Peace river Russian knapweed (acroptilon repens) North okanagan Russian thistle (salsola kali) Peace river Scotch thistle (onopordum acanthium) North okanagan Sulphur cinquefoil (potentilla recta) Columbia-shuswap, north okanagan, okanagan-similkameen, Thompson-nicola Tartary buckwheat (fagopyrum tataricum) Peace river White cockle (lychnis alba) Peace river Wild chervil (anthriscus sylvestris) Fraser valley Wild mustard (sinapsis arvensis) Peace river [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Community charter , s.b.c. 2003, c. 26, s. 9 (4).]