B.c. reg. 133/92 O.c. 559/92 Deposited april 9, 1992 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Environmental management act Storage of recyclable material regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 321/2004] Interpretation
1 In this regulation:
"recyclable material" Means a substance in column 1 of schedule 1; "store" And
"storage" Mean to keep on land or water, whether or not open to the air, covered Or in a structure or container.
Designation of waste 2 For the purpose of this regulation, a substance in column 1 of Schedule 1 is designated a waste.
Application
3 This regulation does not apply to recyclable material that is stored In quantities less than the quantity set out in column 2 of schedule 1 Opposite the recyclable material.
Storage of recyclable materials 4 (1) No person shall store recyclable material except in the manner set out In column 3 of schedule 1 opposite the recyclable material.
(2) No person shall store recyclable material at any place of storage in a Quantity that exceeds the maximum quantity set out in column 4 of Schedule 1 opposite the recyclable material.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), where a director is satisfied that it Is in the public interest, the director may, for the purpose of Subsection (2), substitute a limit respecting the maximum quantity of Recyclable material which may be stored that is less than the quantity Set out in column 4 of schedule 1.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 29.] Period of storage 5 (1) No person shall, after the date of delivery of recyclable material to Its place of storage, store the recyclable material for a period of Time that exceeds the allowable storage period in column 5 of schedule 1 opposite the recyclable material.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where a director is satisfied that it Is in the public interest, the director may, for the purpose of Subsection (1), extend the allowable period of storage not more than An additional 6 months.
(3) If recyclable material is already at a place of storage on the day This regulation comes into force, the date of delivery for the purpose Of subsection (1) is deemed to be the day this regulation comes into Force.
(4) If a substance already at a place of storage is added to schedule 1 After this regulation comes into force, the date of delivery of that Substance for the purpose of subsection (1) is deemed to be the day The substance is added to schedule 1.
[am. b.c. reg. 321/2004, s. 29.] Offence
6 A person who contravenes section 4 (1) or (2) or 5 (1) commits an Offence and is liable to a penalty not exceeding $200 000.
Schedule 1
Item
Column 1
Recyclable material Column 2
Minimum quantity Column 3
Manner of Storage
Column4
Maximum quantity Column 5
Maximum period of storage 1 Drywall, gyproc, gypsum plaster, plasterboard, wallboard or any Similar product containing gypsum, and the residue of them, that (a) has been discarded, (b) is not generally usable as building material in its existing Form, or (c) has been sold, delivered or converted for recycling purposes, Whether or not it has been subsequently collected or stored for Another purpose.
1 tonne Enclosed to Protect it from precipitation And ground moisture 1 000 tonnes 6 months