B.C. Reg. 164/73
O.C. 2034/73
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Creston Valley Wildlife Act
Summit Creek Campground and
Recreation Area Regulations
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Interpretation
1
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act"
means the
Creston Valley Wildlife Act
;
"camp"
means to remain overnight, either with or without a tent or other
temporary shelter;
"campground"
means an area within the Creston Valley wildlife management area
developed or designated as a campground under the provisions of the
Creston Valley Wildlife Act
and these regulations;
"campsite"
means an area, within a campground, designed and developed to
accommodate a single family or party of campers;
"firearm"
means any gun or weapon as defined in the
Firearm Act
;
"game"
means all big game, game fish and furbearing animals as defined by the
Wildlife Act
;
"hunting"
means chasing, pursuing, worrying, following after or on the trail of,
and searching for, shooting at, stalking, lying in wait for any game
while in possession of a firearm, bow or crossbow, whether or not such
game is then or subsequently captured, killed or injured, and "hunt"
has a corresponding meaning;
"management area"
means the Creston Valley wildlife management area;
"management authority"
means the authority constituted by section 16 of the
Creston Valley Wildlife Act
, and includes in relation to any function, power or duty of the
authority which has been delegated by the authority, a delegate of the
management authority;
"minister"
means that member of the Executive Council charged by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council with the administration of the Act;
"ministry"
means the ministry of the minister;
"permit"
means any formal document, granted by the management authority, to
permit a permittee to perform an act or acts otherwise prohibited, and
setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions under which said
act or acts may be performed;
"recreation area"
means an area within the Creston Valley wildlife management area
designated or developed as an area for a specific recreational use
other than camping;
"trailer dumping station"
means a facility provided for the deposition of liquid wastes from the
waterproof containers of trailers or other mobile accommodations;
"trapping"
means setting out any trap, snare or net or other device capable of
taking, capturing or killing game;
"wildlife"
means any feral animal.
[am. B.C. Reg. 109/2002, s. 5.]
Campsite areas
2
(1)
The management authority may designate any part or parts of the
management area as a campground by surveying the boundaries of the
campground so designated, retaining in its possession the original
plan of the survey, and by posting the boundaries of the campground so
designated at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
(2)
Where any portion of the boundaries of a designated campground is on
waterfrontage, such campground shall be deemed to be "designated" if
that portion of the boundaries not on waterfrontage is posted in
accordance with subsection (1), and it shall not be necessary to post
that portion of the boundaries which is on waterfrontage.
(3)
During the period of June 1 to October 1, inclusive, no person shall
camp or remain overnight in any campground designated by the
management authority without first obtaining a daily camping permit
issued by the management authority or its authorized officer, on
payment to the management authority or its authorized officer of the
fee set out in subsection (7).
(4)
On the arrival of every motor vehicle or party to a designated
campground, the management authority or its officer must record
(a)
the name and address of the head of the party, and of each other
person with the head of the party as a member of the party, other than
the spouse and children of the head of the party,
(b)
the number of persons in the party, together with the date of arrival,
and
(c)
if the person or party is travelling by motor vehicle, the licence
number of the motor vehicle, and other identifying letters or
characters appearing on the official number plate carried on that
motor vehicle, including the name of the province, state or country in
which the number plate was issued.
(5)
Every person, upon arriving at a campground and applying for
accommodation therein, shall furnish the management authority or its
authorized officer the information necessary to complete the person's
daily camping permit in accordance with subsection (4) and shall not
be provided with a campsite until such information has been so
furnished, and until a daily camping permit has been issued.
(6)
The management authority shall prescribe the form for a Daily Camping
Permit.
(7)
The fee for a daily camping permit is
(a)
Spent.
(b)
Spent.
(c)
for 1986 and subsequent calendar years, $10.75.
(8)
No person who does not hold a valid daily camping permit as provided
for in subsections (4) and (5) shall enter upon, loiter upon or be
found upon or within the boundaries of any controlled campground while
the gate to such campground is closed and a closed sign is posted upon
it.
(9)
No person shall camp or remain overnight except in a campground
designated by the management authority, unless otherwise authorized by
a permit issued by an officer of the management authority in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and permit regulations.
(10)
No person shall camp in any campground developed and designated by the
management authority for a total of more than 14 days in any calendar
year.
(11)
Twelve o'clock noon is designated as normal checkout time and every
person occupying a campsite in the management area after that time
shall be liable for full payment for a daily camping permit for the
following night.
[am. B.C. Regs. 188/76, s. 1; 50/84; 361/2012; 76/2022, ss. 7 and 11.]
Recreation areas
3
(1)
The management authority may designate any part or parts of the
management area as a recreation area by surveying the boundaries of
the recreation area so designated, retaining in its possession the
original plan of the survey, and by posting the boundaries of the
recreation area at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
(2)
Where any portion of the boundaries of a designated recreation area is
on waterfrontage, such recreation area shall be deemed to be
"designated" within the meaning of subsection (1) if that portion of
the boundaries not on waterfrontage is posted in accordance with
subsection (1), and it shall not be necessary to post that portion of
the boundaries which is on waterfrontage.
(3)
Except as may be authorized by a management authority permit, no
person shall enter upon or be upon or within the boundaries of any
designated recreation area.
(4)
Every person, upon arriving at a designated recreation area and
desiring to use it, shall obtain from an authorized officer of the
management authority a recreation area permit, except where an open
general permit has been issued.
(5)
The management authority shall prescribe the form of Recreation Area
day-use permits and recreation area season-use permits.
(6)
Every entrance to a designated recreation area shall be provided with
a gate, which may be closed between the hours of midnight and
7 o'clock in the morning.
(7)
Except as authorized by a management authority permit, no person shall
enter upon or be upon or within the boundaries of a designated
recreation area while the entrance to that recreation area is closed.
(8)
No person shall picnic except in a recreation area designated by the
management authority unless otherwise authorized by a permit issued by
an authorized officer of the management authority.
(9)
The permit issuance fee for a recreation area day-use permit shall be
waived.
(10)
The user fee for a recreation area day-use permit shall be $0.50,
except in the case of an open general permit for the use of recreation
areas, in which case no fee shall be charged.
(11)
The holder of a recreation area day-use permit issued by the
management authority shall be entitled to enter upon or be upon or
within the boundaries of any recreation area designated by the
management authority, and to practice such activities as are not
prohibited or restricted by an Act or regulation, between the hours of
7 a.m. and 12 midnight of the day on which the recreation
area day-use permit was issued.
(12)
The permit issuance fee for a recreation area season-use permit shall
be $1. No user fee shall be charged in respect of a recreation area
season-use permit.
(13)
The holder of a recreation area season-use permit issued by the
management authority shall be entitled, together with a party not
exceeding 8 persons in number, to enter upon or be upon or within the
boundaries of any recreation area designated by the management
authority, and to practise such activities as are not prohibited or
restricted by an Act or regulation, between the hours of 7 a.m.
and 12 midnight, on each day of the period from January 1 to
December 31 of the year in which the recreation area season-use
permit was issued.
(14)
The holder of a season-use permit shall affix the permit to the inside
of a window on the right-hand side of the holder's motor vehicle,
immediately upon issuance, and shall not be readmitted to a designated
recreation area unless said permit is affixed as described above.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Traffic
4
(1)
Except as authorized by the management authority, its officers and
agents, no person shall park or station any vehicle on any road or
land within the management area in such a manner as to impede proper
use of a road or in such place or manner as to damage vegetation or
restrict or inhibit public recreational use of a campground or
recreation area.
(2)
Except as may be authorized by a permit of the management authority,
no person shall use, operate or have in the person's charge on any
footpath, trail, protection road or other land in any designated
campground or recreation area any motorcycle, motor scooter,
snowmobile or motor vehicle or other mechanically powered conveyance,
except on a road or parking area provided for public use or on an area
specifically posted for such use.
(3)
Except as may be authorized by a permit of the management authority,
no person shall ride, lead, drive or have in charge on any hiking or
walking trail or path in any campground or recreation area any horse
or other draught or riding animal, unless the area, path or trail has
been specifically posted for such use.
(4)
No person shall operate or station any commercial vehicle or any
vehicle displaying advertising or equipped with a public address
system in any part of the management area, including designated
campgrounds or recreation areas, for the purpose of advertising,
demonstrating or attracting attention.
(5)
No person shall use any trailer or other vehicle for living or
sleeping quarters within any campground except on an improved parking
spur or on a site designated for the purpose by sign or officer or
agent of the management authority.
(6)
The management authority may, if it is necessary in the opinion of the
management authority to public safety and convenience, cause the
erection of appropriate signs closing any road or roads or other areas
within any part of the management area, including campgrounds and
recreation areas, to public use, and may limit the speed at which
vehicles may be operated on any road within any part of the management
area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Preservation of property and natural features
5
Except as may be authorized by a management authority permit, no
person shall remove, destroy or damage any natural product, curiosity,
object, structure, sign or work, water spring, lake or watercourse or
any management area property whatsoever.
Sanitation and disposal
6
(1)
No person shall, within any part of the management area, throw, cast
or lay, drop, deposit or discharge into, or place or leave in the
waters of or bordering the management area, or in any storm sewer or
drain discharging into such waters, any substance, matter or thing,
liquid or solid, which may result in the pollution or contamination of
said waters.
(2)
No person shall deposit in the management area any garbage, sewage,
refuse, empty or broken bottles, tin cans, cartons, paper or other
waste or obnoxious material otherwise than in a receptacle or pit
provided and marked for that purpose.
(3)
No person shall carry or transport any domestic, commercial or
industrial waste, refuse or garbage of any kind into or upon the
management area.
(4)
Sinks, washbasins, lavatories, toilets and similar contrivances in
trailers and other mobile accommodation within campgrounds or
recreation areas shall be provided with waterproof containers, and the
contents of said containers shall not be deposited in any part of the
management area, except in such places as may be designated for that
purpose by the management authority.
(5)
The management authority or its authorized officers may designate
suitable sites within the management area as trailer dumping stations
by surveying the location of the station, retaining the original plan
of the survey in the possession of the management authority, and by
posting the access to the trailer dumping station so designated.
(6)
The management authority may provide marked containers for the
deposition of the refuse of users of the management area.
(7)
No person shall use the facilities of a designated trailer dumping
station except as may be authorized by a management authority trailer
dumping station permit.
(8)
The management authority shall prescribe the form of a trailer dumping
station permit.
(9)
The fee for a trailer dumping station permit is $3.00.
(10)
The holder of a trailer dumping station permit shall be entitled to
use the facilities of a designated trailer dumping station in one
complete operation, including dumping, flushing and washing of the
holding tank or tanks.
[am. B.C. Regs. 188/76, s. 2; 137/80, s. 2.]
Advertising
7
No person shall, without a management authority permit to do so, place
in any campground, recreation area or other part of the management
area any word, character, device or sign designed to advertise any
business, profession or service, association or individual, or any
article or thing or any exhibition, performance, gathering or event.
Boats
8
Except as may be authorized by a management authority permit, or to
render aid to persons in distress, no person shall use or operate any
powerboat or outboard motor in any campground or recreation area.
Explosives
9
No person shall, without a management authority permit to do so, bring
into or have in the person's possession within the management area any
explosive or explosive substance, except lawfully carried firearms
ammunition.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Fires
10
(1)
In campgrounds and recreation areas where fireplaces are provided or
except as otherwise authorized by a management authority permit, no
person shall kindle, build, light, maintain or use a fire, other than
in places provided or designated for that purpose.
(2)
No person shall leave an unattended fire burning in any part of the
management area.
Public conduct
11
(1)
Every person entering or seeking to enter, or being within or upon, a
campground or recreation area shall give to any officer of the
management authority such information regarding the person's name,
address, destination, proposed activities and conduct within the
campground or recreation area, and any matter pertaining to campground
or recreation area occupancy, as the officer of the management
authority may request.
(2)
No person shall create or cause deliberate or unnecessary disturbance
within any campground or recreation area.
(3)
Any officer of the management authority may order any person who, in
the officer's opinion, behaves in contravention of subsection (2) to
leave the campground or recreation area within a period specified by
the officer of the management authority, and every person so ordered
to leave under this subsection shall comply with the order of the
officer of the management authority and leave the campground or
recreation area within the specified period.
(4)
In any order issued by an officer of the management authority under
subsection (3), if no time is specified, such order shall be effective
immediately.
(5)
Any eviction order issued under subsection (3) shall remain in effect
for such time as specified by the officer of the management authority
issuing such order.
(6)
The management authority or an officer of the management authority may
(a)
prohibit or restrict activities which in the opinion of the management
authority are detrimental to public safety and convenience,
(b)
cause signs or other traffic control devices to be erected in any part
of the management area, including campgrounds and recreation areas,
and
(c)
cause signs or other devices delimiting areas on which specific
activities may be practised or are prohibited to be erected in any
part of the management area, including campgrounds and recreation
areas.
(7)
Every person within the boundaries of any campground and recreation
area shall observe and obey every statute and regulation and every
prohibition or restriction announced by sign or other device
applicable to that campground, recreation area or that part of the
management area.
(8)
No parent, guardian, custodian or person in charge of any minor shall
permit or allow the minor to do in any campground or recreation area
any act prohibited by an Act or regulation.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 7 and 8.]
Animals
12
(1)
No person shall cause or permit any animal owned by the person or in
the person's control to roam at large in any part of the management
area, including campgrounds and recreation areas, except as may be
authorized by a permit of the management authority.
(2)
Every person having custody of any animal in any part of the
management area, including campgrounds and recreation areas, shall
exercise such control over that animal as is necessary to insure that
the animal causes no annoyance or injury to any person and no damage
to any property whatsoever, and any officer of the management
authority may require the custodian of any animal to restrain such
animal as may be necessary in the opinion of the officer of the
management authority to public convenience and safety.
(3)
Any officer of the management authority may order any custodian in
contravention of subsection (2) to remove any animal under the
custodian's charge from the management area, or from any campground or
recreation area, and every custodian shall obey every order issued
under this section.
(4)
The management authority or an officer of the management authority may
define any area or areas within any campground or recreation area or
any part of the management area in which the presence of dogs, cats or
any other domestic animal is prohibited, and no person shall take into
or have under the person's charge in any such area any prohibited
domestic animal.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 7 and 8.]
No hunting
13
(1)
Except as may be authorized by a management authority permit, no
person shall hunt, wound, kill or take game within any designated
campground or recreation area.
(2)
Except as provided in clause (1), no person shall have in the person's
possession, hunt with or discharge any firearm or bow or crossbow in
any designated campground or recreation area.
(3)
Unloaded firearms may be carried within a vehicle in transit to or
from a lawful hunting area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]
Penalties
14
Any person who violates any provision of these regulations shall, on
summary conviction, be guilty of an offence and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in B.C. Reg. 79/71, Permit Regulations.
Exemptions
15
Every constable, peace officer, member, officer or agent of the
management authority and member of the Armed Forces of Canada is
exempt from the provisions of these regulations while performing
duties.
[am. B.C. Reg 76/2022, s. 11.]
Ex officio officers
16
All members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police shall be ex officio
officers of the management authority.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Creston Valley Wildlife Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 84, s. 34.]
