B.c. reg. 163/2020 O.c. 371/2020 Deposited june 29, 2020 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Financial administration act Tax and royalty interest (covid-19 emergency) Remission regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"eligible amount" Means
(a) Eligible interest, or (b) An amount imposed as a fine or penalty to the extent that the amount Is determined by calculating or otherwise incorporates eligible Interest;
"eligible interest" Means interest that is calculated in relation to any part of the Remission period; "remission period" Means the period that begins on march 24, 2020 and ends on september 30, 2020.
Application
2 The following acts are specified for the purposes of section 3 of this Regulation:
(a) The
Carbon tax act; (b) The
Employer health tax act; (c) The
Home owner grant act; (d) The
Insurance premium tax act; (e) The
International business activity act; (f) The
Logging tax act; (g) The
Mineral land tax act; (h) The
Mineral tax act; (i) The
Motor fuel tax act; (j) The
Petroleum and natural gas act; (k) The
Property transfer tax act; (l) The
Provincial sales tax act; (m) The
Social service tax act; (n) The
Speculation and vacancy tax act; (o) The
Taxation (rural area) act; (p) The
Tobacco tax act.
Remission of interest 3 Authorization is given for the remission of any of the following Amounts that is paid or payable to the government:
(a) An eligible amount that is imposed or authorized to be imposed under An act specified in section 2 of this regulation, whether directly or As that act is applied by another enactment; (b) An eligible amount that is imposed or authorized to be imposed under Any of the following acts and made subject by that act to Administration and enforcement under the Taxation (rural area) act; (i) The
South coast british columbia transportation authority act :
(ii) The
University endowment land act.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Financial administration act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 138, s. 19.]