B.C. Reg. 290/2008
M250/2008
Deposited October 15, 2008
effective October 17, 2008
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
See the
Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024
for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.
Health Professions Act
Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
and Acupuncturists Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Health Professions Act
;
"active serious medical condition"
means a disease, disorder or dysfunction which has disabling or
life-threatening effects and which will not improve without immediate
or surgical intervention;
"acupuncture"
means an act of stimulation, by means of needles, of specific sites on
the skin, mucous membranes or subcutaneous tissues of the human body
to promote, maintain, restore or improve health, to prevent a
disorder, imbalance or disease or to alleviate pain and includes
(a)
the administration of manual, mechanical, thermal and electrical
stimulation of acupuncture needles,
(b)
the use of laser acupuncture, magnetic therapy or acupressure, and
(c)
moxibustion (Jiu) and suction cup (Ba Guan);
"acupuncturist"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to practise
acupuncture;
"dentist"
means a person authorized under the
Dentists Act
to practise dentistry;
"doctor of traditional Chinese medicine"
means a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner who is authorized
under the bylaws to use the title "doctor of traditional Chinese
medicine";
"herbalist"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to prescribe, compound
or dispense Chinese herbal formulae (Zhong Yao Chu Fang) and Chinese
food cure recipes (Shi Liao);
"naturopath"
means a person authorized under the Act to practise naturopathic
medicine;
"prescribe"
means to give directions, either orally or in writing, for the
preparation and administration of a traditional Chinese medicine
remedy to be used in the treatment of a disorder or an imbalance;
"traditional Chinese medicine"
means the promotion, maintenance and restoration of health and
prevention of a disorder, imbalance or disease based on traditional
Chinese medicine theory by utilization of the primary therapies of
(a)
Chinese acupuncture (Zhen), moxibustion (Jiu) and suction cup (Ba
Guan),
(b)
Chinese manipulative therapy (Tui Na),
(c)
Chinese energy control therapy (Qi Gong),
(d)
Chinese rehabilitation exercises such as Chinese shadow boxing (Tai Ji
Quan), and
(e)
prescribing, compounding or dispensing Chinese herbal formulae (Zhong
Yao Chu Fang) and Chinese food cure recipes (Shi Liao);
"traditional Chinese medicine practitioner"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to practise traditional
Chinese medicine.
College name
2
The name "College of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners and
Acupuncturists of British Columbia" is the name of the college
established under section 15 (1) of the Act for traditional Chinese
medicine and acupuncture.
Reserved titles
3
(1)
The title "acupuncturist" is reserved for exclusive use by
acupuncturists.
(2)
The title "traditional Chinese medicine practitioner" is reserved for
exclusive use by traditional Chinese medicine practitioners.
(3)
The title "traditional Chinese medicine herbalist" is reserved for
exclusive use by herbalists.
(4)
The titles "doctor of traditional Chinese medicine" and "doctor" are
reserved for exclusive use by doctors of traditional Chinese medicine.
(5)
This section does not prevent a person from using
(a)
the title "doctor" in a manner authorized by another enactment that
regulates a health profession, or
(b)
an academic or educational designation that the person is entitled to
use.
Scope of practice
4
(1)
An acupuncturist may practise acupuncture, including
(a)
the use of traditional Chinese medicine diagnostic techniques, and
(b)
the recommendation of dietary guidelines or therapeutic exercise.
(2)
A traditional Chinese medicine practitioner may practise traditional
Chinese medicine.
Restricted activities
5
No person other than a
(a)
traditional Chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist or herbalist
may make a traditional Chinese medicine diagnosis identifying a
disease, disorder or condition as the cause of signs or symptoms,
(b)
traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or a herbalist may prescribe
those Chinese herbal formulae listed in a schedule to the bylaws of
the College, and
(c)
traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or an acupuncturist may
insert acupuncture needles under the skin for the purposes of
practising acupuncture.
Limits or conditions on services
6
(1)
No acupuncturist or herbalist may treat an active serious medical
condition unless the client has consulted with a medical practitioner,
naturopath, dentist or doctor of traditional Chinese medicine, as
appropriate.
(2)
A traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or an acupuncturist may
administer acupuncture as a surgical anaesthetic only if a medical
practitioner or a dentist is physically present and observing the
procedure.
(3)
An acupuncturist or herbalist must advise the client to consult a
medical practitioner, naturopath, dentist or doctor of traditional
Chinese medicine if there is no improvement in the condition for which
the client is being treated within 2 months of receiving treatment.
(4)
In the event a client does not consult with a medical practitioner,
naturopath, dentist or doctor of traditional Chinese medicine, an
acupuncturist or herbalist must discontinue treatment if
(a)
there is no improvement in the condition for which the client is being
treated after 4 months from the date treatment commenced,
(b)
the condition for which the client is being treated worsens, or
(c)
new symptoms develop.
(5)
An acupuncturist or herbalist must not use traditional Chinese
medicine diagnostic techniques except as authorized in the bylaws.
Patient relations program
7
The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of
the Act.
[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 12 (2)]
