B.c. reg. 237/2021 O.c. 522/2021 Deposited september 13, 2021 Effective september 29, 2021 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Vancouver charter Vancouver park board Electronic meetings regulation Definition
1 In this regulation, "act" Means the Vancouver charter .
Electronic park board meetings 2 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 491a [meetings of the board] Of the act and the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are Met, park board meetings, other than special meetings, may be Conducted by means of electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting of the park Board referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, the park board must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public (i) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting, and (ii) To hear, or watch and hear, the meeting at the specified place, and an Officer or employee designated by the park board must be in attendance At the specified place.
(3) Members of the park board who are participating in a meeting conducted In accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the Meeting.
Electronic special park board meetings 3 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 491a of the act And the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are met, Special meetings may be conducted by means of electronic or other Communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a special meeting Referred to in subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) In the procedure bylaw, the park board must (i) Provide for advance public notice of the following:
(a) The way in which the meeting is to be conducted by means of electronic Or other communication facilities; (b) The place where the public may attend to hear, or watch and hear, the Proceedings that are open to the public, and (ii) Establish the procedures for giving that notice; (c) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the meeting; (d) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Meeting at the specified place, and an officer or employee designated By the park board must be in attendance at the specified place.
(3) Members of the park board who are participating in a meeting conducted In accordance with this section are deemed to be present at the Meeting.
Electronic participation by members in park board meetings 4 (1) If it is authorized by a procedure bylaw under section 491a of the act And the requirements of subsection (2) of this section are met, a Member of the park board who is unable to attend in person at a Meeting or a special meeting may participate in the meeting by means Of electronic or other communication facilities.
(2) The following requirements apply in relation to a meeting referred to In subsection (1):
(a) The meeting must be conducted in accordance with the applicable Procedure bylaw; (b) The facilities must enable the meeting's participants to hear, or Watch and hear, the participation of the member; (c) Except for any part of the meeting that is closed to the public, the Facilities must enable the public to hear, or watch and hear, the Participation of the member.
(3) Members of the park board who are participating under this section in A meeting conducted in accordance with this section are deemed to be Present at the meeting.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Vancouver charter , s.b.c. 1953, c. 55, s. 495a (2).]