B.C. Reg. 47/82
O.C. 292/82
Deposited February 22, 1982
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Veterinary Drugs Act
Veterinary Drug and Medicated Feed Regulation
[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Veterinary Drugs Act
;
"CMIB"
means the Compendium of Medicating Ingredient Brochures published by
the Canadian Food Inspection Agency as it read on December 15, 2018;
"licensee"
means a person who holds a licence issued under this regulation;
"prescription drug list"
means the list of drugs set out under the heading "Products for
Veterinary Use" in the Prescription Drug List established by
regulation under the
Food and Drugs Act
(Canada);
"production animal"
means
(a)
a species of animal that may be used for human consumption or whose
products may be used for human consumption,
(b)
fur bearing animals as defined in the Fur Farm Regulation, B.C. Reg.
8/2015, and
(c)
a species of animal used for crop pollination;
"registered hatchery"
means a hatchery that is subject to a permit within the meaning of the
Hatchery Regulations (Canada);
"veterinary prescription"
means a written authorization from a veterinarian to dispense a
specified drug for administration to an animal specified or described
in the authorization.
[am. B.C. Regs. 431/95, s. 1; 118/2009, s. 1; 6/2015,
Sch. 3, s. 1; 8/2015, s. (c); 303/2016, s. (d);
26/2019, s. 1.]
Licences to sell
2
(1)
Subject to the Act and this regulation, the minister may issue
licences of each class set out in Column 1, upon application and
payment of the fee in Column 2 for each class.
Column 1
Class of Licence
Column 2
Licence Fee
$
limited medicated feed licence.....
12.00
medicated feed licence.............
55.00
veterinary drug licence...........
55.00
veterinary drug dispenser licence
12.00 for 5 years
(2)
An application for a licence under subsection (1) must be in the form
provided by and forwarded to
Chief Veterinarian
Abbotsford Agricultural Centre
1767 Angus Campbell Road
Abbotsford, B.C., V3G 2M3.
(3)
Unless sooner terminated in accordance with this regulation,
(a)
a limited medicated feed licence, medicated feed licence, or
veterinary drug licence expires on March 31 next following the date of
issue, and
(b)
a veterinary drug dispenser licence expires on March 31 five years
after the date of issue.
(4)
A licence is not transferable and where a change is made in the
ownership of a business licensed under this regulation, the licensee
(a)
shall notify the chief veterinarian of the change and return the
licence to the chief veterinarian, and
(b)
is not entitled to receive any refund on the licence fee in respect of
the unexpired term of the licence.
[am. B.C. Regs. 232/83; 459/87; 19/90; 257/93, ss. 1 and 2; 431/95,
ss. 2 and 3; 118/2009, s. 2; 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 2; 64/2021, s. 7.]
Limited medicated feed licence
3
(1)
Subject to this regulation and subsection (2) of this section, a
limited medicated feed licence authorizes the licensee to sell
medicated feed.
(2)
A limited medicated feed licence does not authorize the licensee to do
any of the following:
(a)
manufacture medicated feed;
(b)
sell medicated feed that
(i)
contains a veterinary drug listed on the prescription drug list, or
(ii)
under a federal enactment, may not be sold without a veterinary
prescription.
[en. B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 2.]
Medicated feed licence
4
Subject to this regulation, a medicated feed licence authorizes the
licensee to do the following:
(a)
manufacture, in accordance with the requirements of the CMIB,
medicated feed that does not contain a veterinary drug listed on the
prescription drug list and sell it to any person;
(b)
manufacture, in accordance with the requirements of the CMIB,
medicated feed that contains a veterinary drug listed on the
prescription drug list and sell the medicated feed in accordance with
a veterinary prescription;
(c)
manufacture, other than in accordance with the requirements of the
CMIB but in accordance with a veterinary prescription, medicated feed
that contains a veterinary drug and sell the medicated feed in
accordance with the veterinary prescription.
[en. B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 2.]
Veterinary drug licence
5
(0.1)
A veterinary drug licence authorizes the licensee to sell a drug
described in subsection (1) of this section if both of the following
conditions are met:
(a)
the drug is not listed on the prescription drug list;
(b)
the sale is in accordance with the terms and conditions imposed under
this regulation and the licence, if any.
(1)
Subject to subsection (0.1), a veterinary drug licence authorizes the
licensee to sell the following veterinary drugs:
(a)
injectable biologicals for the prevention or treatment of disease in
production animals, including antiserums, bacterins, toxoids,
antitoxins, products containing concentrated or purified antibodies
and vaccines, except brucella, rabies, anthrax, modified live virus
and live virus vaccines for mammals;
(b)
antibiotics for administration to production animals;
(c)
vitamins for injection into or oral administration to production
animals, injectable vitamin A not to exceed 500 000 I.U. per
millilitre and injectable vitamin D not to exceed 75 000 I.U. per
millilitre;
(d)
preparations containing
(i)
minerals for oral administration to, and
(ii)
selenium and iron for injection into
production animals, for the prevention of deficiencies, including
hematinics for horses, if the hematinics contain not more than 1
milligram of copper gluconate or cobalt gluconate or both;
(e)
growth promotants in the form of implants and feed additives labeled
by the manufacturer for use in production animals;
(f)
injectable epinephrine for treatment of anaphylactic reactions in
production animals;
(g)
dextrose, calcium, phosphorus and magnesium preparations and propylene
glycol labelled by the manufacturer for treatment and prevention of
acetonemeia and hypocalcemia in production animals and preparations
intended as an aid in the supportive treatment of nutritional
deficiencies in debilitated production animals;
(h)
anti-cannibalism compounds for poultry;
(i)
topical preparations labeled by the manufacturer as liniments,
counter-irritants or poultices for the treatment of joint pain,
swollen ligaments, tendons or muscles;
(j)
acetylsalicylic acid boluses for horses or cattle;
(k)
disinfectants, udder washes and teat dips and sanitizers.
(2)
A veterinary drug licence may only be issued to
(a)
a limited medicated feed licensee or a medicated feed licensee,
(b)
the operator of a registered hatchery, or
(c)
a person in an area where professional veterinary advice or
pharmaceutical service is not available.
(d)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 3 (e).]
[am. B.C. Regs. 118/2009, s. 4; 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 4; 26/2019, s. 3.]
Veterinary drug dispenser
6
(1)
A medicated feed licensee shall have a veterinary drug dispenser on
the premises when medicated feeds are being manufactured.
(2)
A veterinary drug licensee shall have a veterinary drug dispenser
present on the premises when those premises are open for business.
(3)
A licensee shall notify the chief veterinarian, in writing, within 72
hours
(a)
of ceasing to have a veterinary drug dispenser present on the premises
as required by subsections (1) and (2), or
(b)
of having a different or additional veterinary drug dispenser on the
licensee's premises for the purpose of subsections (1) and (2),
giving the name and licence number of the veterinary drug dispenser.
[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 6.]
Cancellation of licences
7
The minister may cancel a licence where the person to whom it was
issued
(a)
made a false statement in the person's application for licence,
(b)
made a false statement in the register of purchases or the record of
purchases and sale, or
(c)
has contravened
(i)
this regulation,
(ii)
the Act, or
(iii)
the
Veterinarians Act
.
[am. B.C. Regs. 431/95, s. 2; 118/2009, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 6.]
Veterinary drugs
8
(1)
A licensee shall maintain a permanent place of business and shall keep
and sell veterinary drugs only at that place of business.
(2)
A licensee shall ensure that there is no public access to the area of
the place of business, the cabinet, the refrigerator or other storage
space where veterinary drugs listed in section 5 (1) are stored and
kept for sale.
(3)
No person shall store, distribute or mix a veterinary drug except
under the personal supervision of a licensed veterinary drug
dispenser.
[am. B.C. Regs. 118/2009, s. 6; 64/2021, s. 8.]
Storing and selling veterinary drugs
9
(1)
A licensee who keeps veterinary drugs for sale must store the drugs as
follows:
(a)
if the drugs do not require refrigeration, in a clean, sanitary
cabinet or other storage space which prevents the drug from coming in
contact with any food for human or animal use, or any drug or medicine
for human use;
(b)
if the drugs require refrigeration, in a clean, sanitary refrigerator
that
(i)
is not used for any purpose other than to store veterinary drugs, and
(ii)
is kept at the temperature recommended by the drug manufacturer.
(2)
A licensee who keeps veterinary drugs for sale must not do either of
the following:
(a)
repackage a veterinary drug;
(b)
give away, barter or sell a veterinary drug as an inducement to
purchase other merchandise.
(3)
A licensee who sells a veterinary drug must give a receipt to the
purchaser on the purchaser's request.
[en. B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 4.]
Repealed
10
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 4.]
Manufacturer's packaging and labelling
11
A holder of a veterinary drug licence shall sell veterinary drugs only
as packaged and labelled by the manufacturer.
[am. B.C. Reg. 460/87, s. (a).]
Duties of licensed dispenser
12
Every licensed dispenser shall
(a)
draw the purchaser's attention to toxicity warnings and precautions to
be taken, following the use of any veterinary drug, with respect to
animal and poultry products intended for human consumption, and
(b)
immediately after the expiration date appearing on any container or
package containing a veterinary drug, make a diagonal red mark across
the label of the container or package, and shall keep such drugs
separate from the licensed dispenser's other stock until they are
destroyed or returned to the manufacturer.
[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 6.]
Prohibitions
13
No licensed dispenser shall
(a)
repackage a veterinary drug,
(b)
give away, barter or sell a veterinary drug as an inducement to
purchase other merchandise,
(c)
sell a veterinary drug after the expiration date appearing on the
container or package containing the drug,
(d)
sell a veterinary drug other than a veterinary drug listed on the
licence held by a licensee, or
(e)
refuse a request to provide a receipt to any person who purchases a
veterinary drug from the licensed dispenser.
[am. B.C. Regs. 460/87, s. (b); 64/2021, s. 7.]
Exemptions
14
This regulation does not apply to a sale by a manufacturer, wholesaler
or agent of a manufacturer or wholesaler to
(a)
a pharmacist or a veterinarian,
(b)
another manufacturer or wholesaler or the other manufacturer or
wholesaler's agent,
(c)
a person licensed under this regulation to sell specified drugs, where
the drugs sold to that person are among those specified on the
person's licence, or
(d)
officials of governments and universities engaged in research and
testing, and who provide services involving the use and application of
veterinary drugs.
[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 3; 64/2021, s. 6.]
Sales
15
No manufacturer, wholesaler or agent of a manufacturer or wholesaler
shall sell to a licensee a veterinary drug that is not listed in Table
1 or 2 of Schedule A.
Certain sales prohibited
16
Subject to section 14, no manufacturer, wholesaler or agent of a
manufacturer or wholesaler shall sell any veterinary drug to a person
who is not licensed under this regulation.
Record of purchases and sales
17
(1)
A holder of a medicated feed licence who mixes medicated feeds or a
holder of a veterinary drug licence shall keep a veterinary drug
purchase register, supplied by the minister, of all purchases of
veterinary drugs made by the holder of the licence and shall honestly,
fully and legibly record in the register, in order of date, all
purchases of veterinary drugs showing the date of purchases, name of
supplier, quantity purchased, the generic name, trade name and name of
manufacturer of the drugs.
(2)
A holder of both a medicated feed licence and veterinary drug licence
must keep separate veterinary drug purchase registers for the drugs
referred to in section 4 and the drugs listed in section 5 (1).
(3)
A holder of a limited medicated feed licence shall keep a register,
supplied by the minister, of all purchases of medicated feed that have
been imported for sale from another province or from another country.
[am. B.C. Regs. 118/2009, s. 7; 64/2021, s. 7.]
Record keeping and reporting
18
(1)
A licensee shall forward the original copy of the licensee's
veterinary drug purchase register to the chief veterinarian before
February 28 each year to cover all of the licensee's purchases for the
previous calendar year.
(2)
A licensee shall keep copies of the licensee's purchase invoices and
purchase register for 24 months.
(3)
Where a licensee does not comply with this section, the minister may
suspend the licensee's licence or refuse to renew the licensee's
licence for the next fiscal year or portion of it.
[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 6.]
Further requirement
19
Where veterinary drugs are mixed in medicated feeds on the written
order of a veterinarian, the licensee shall retain the written order
and forward it with the original copy of the veterinary drug purchase
register as required under section 18 (1).
[am. B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 3.]
Licensees may be required to maintain a drug sales record
20
(1)
The chief veterinarian may, for just cause, require any licensee to
maintain a veterinary drug sales record, supplied by the minister, of
all sales made by the licensee.
(2)
A licensee who is required under subsection (1) to maintain a
veterinary drug sales record shall
(a)
honestly and legibly record in the register, in order of date, all
sales of veterinary drugs, the name, form and strength of the
veterinary drug sold, and the name and address of the purchaser, and
(b)
ensure that the signature of the person actually selling the drug is
affixed at the time of sale.
[am. B.C. Reg. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 5.]
Transporting veterinary drugs
21
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), a person must not transport or cause to be
transported in British Columbia a veterinary drug, except to deliver
it to a person who may lawfully manufacture or sell medicated feeds,
or sell veterinary drugs, in British Columbia.
(2)
A person who purchases veterinary drugs from a licensee, a pharmacist
or a veterinarian may transport the drugs or have the drugs delivered
to the place where the person intends to administer the drugs.
(3)
A person who transports veterinary drugs must do so in a manner that
(a)
will prevent the drug containers from coming in contact with human or
animal food or other products that might be contaminated by contact,
and
(b)
will maintain the original potency and efficacy of the drugs.
[en. B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 5.]
Repealed
22
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 5.]
Veterinary drug dispensers
23
(1)
The chief veterinarian may issue a veterinary drug dispenser licence
to a person who qualifies under this section.
(2)
No person under the age of 18 years shall apply for or be issued a
licence as a veterinary drug dispenser.
(3)
No person shall be issued a licence as a veterinary drug dispenser
unless the person passes an examination set by the chief veterinarian
respecting the properties, use and abuse of veterinary drugs and
related information.
(4)
A person who is not successful in passing the examination may, on
written request, write an additional examination not sooner than 14
days after the date of the previous examination but may not write the
examination more than twice within any 6 month period.
(5)
The chief veterinarian may require an applicant for a licence as a
veterinary drug dispenser to attend a course of instruction on
medicated feeds and veterinary drugs at a time and place the chief
veterinarian designates.
[am. B.C. Regs. 257/93, s. 3; 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 5.]
Further examinations
24
(1)
The chief veterinarian may require a veterinary drug dispenser to
undergo a further examination at any time as to the veterinary drug
dispenser's competency respecting the properties, use and abuse of
veterinary drugs and related information.
(2)
The chief veterinarian may cancel the veterinary drug dispenser
licence of any person who fails to pass an examination required under
subsection (1).
[am. B.C. Regs. 6/2015, Sch. 3, s. 5; 64/2021, s. 6.]
Offence
25
(1)
A person who contravenes section 6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 16 or 21 commits
an offence.
(2)
No proceeding, conviction or penalty for an offence under subsection
(1) relieves any person from any other liability.
[am. B.C. Reg. 26/2019, s. 6.]
Schedule A
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 118/2009, s. 8.]
Schedule B
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/93, s. 6.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Veterinary Drugs Act
, R.S.B.C. 2018, c. 2, s. 13.]
