B.c. reg. 12/2015 M15/2015
Deposited january 21, 2015 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Wildlife act Wildlife management areas regulation [includes amendments up to b.c. reg. 285/2018, december 17, 2018] Wildlife management areas 1 The areas of land under the minister's administration named and Described in the schedule are designated as wildlife management areas.
Critical wildlife area 2 All the land in the green mountain wildlife management area is Designated as a critical wildlife area for the vancouver island marmot ( Marmota vancouverensis ).
Schedule
[am. b.c. regs. 177/2016; 272/2016; 123/2018; 285/2018.] Bert brink wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1994; except Canadian national railway land titles office plans 3886 (5 tube 620) and 4587.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 915 Hectares.
Boundary bay wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1941.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 11 774 Hectares.
Chilanko marsh wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1941.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 716 Hectares.
Cluxewe wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1941.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 124 Hectares.
Columbia wetlands wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land within the 200 year flood Level of the columbia river, together with all that foreshore or land Covered by water, situated in kootenay district and contained within the Described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as columbia wetlands wildlife management area (north Site), plan 14 tube 1941; columbia wetlands wildlife management area (central site), plan 4 tube 1982; and columbia wetlands wildlife Management area (south site), plan 13 tube 1982.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 16 969 Hectares.
Coquitlam river wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1941.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 16 hectares.
Cranberry marsh/starratt wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Cranberrymarshstarrattwma5m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of Forests, lands and natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 319 Hectares.
Dewdrop-rosseau creek wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Dewdrop-rosseau_creek_wma4m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of Forests, lands and natural resource operations; except (1) cn right of Way plan 1loc26 and 5ry218; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on Frederick road.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 5 627 Hectares.
East side columbia lake wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 7 158 Hectares.
Green mountain wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in dunsmuir district and Outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Green_mtn_wma3m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, lands and Natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 342 Hectares.
Hamling lakes wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2007.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 30 749 Hectares.
Lazo marsh-north east comox wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in comox district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 131 Hectares.
Lhá:lt / harrison-chehalis wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Harrison_chehalis_wma2m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, Lands and natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 033 Hectares.
Mctaggart-cowan/nsòk'ɬniw't wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Mctaggart_cowan_wma6m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, Lands and natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 6 491 Hectares.
Midge creek wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 14 818 Hectares.
Parksville-qualicum beach wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water situated in nanaimo, nanoose and Newcastle districts and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file Name approved_parksville_qualicum_beach_wma3m.pdf, on file with geobc, Ministry of forests, lands and natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 245 Hectares.
Pemberton wetlands wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2011; except (1) Airport road, a 20 metre wide gazetted road; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations fsr 7979-01-0; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on the Ministry of forests, lands and natural resource operations road r09288.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 765 Hectares.
Pitt-addington marsh wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 2 815 Hectares.
Quatse estuary wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Quatse_estuary_wma5m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, lands And natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 157 Hectares.
Roberts bank wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1993.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 8 770 Hectares.
S'amunu wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the somenos and Quamichan land districts and outlined in heavy black on the map with the File name s_amunu_wma5.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, Lands, natural resource operations and rural development.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 155 Hectares.
Serpentine wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1994.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 71 hectares.
Skwelwil'em squamish estuary wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1977.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 5 152 Hectares.
South arm marshes wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, in the south arm of the fraser river Situated in groups 1 and 2, new westminster district and contained Within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited In the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 830 Hectares.
South okanagan wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name South_okanagan_wma5m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, lands And natural resource operations; except the road survey as shown on Highways district plan rs67722.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 903 Hectares.
Stellako river wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2004; except (1) dl 6854; and (2) francois lake road as shown on plan 5 tube 1435 and Plan 14 tube 1633.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 503 Hectares.
Sturgeon bank wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1942.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 7 788 Hectares.
Swan lake wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in okanagan shuswap District and outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Swan_lake_wma5.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, lands, Natural resource operations and rural development.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 471.5 Hectares.
Todagin wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Outlined in heavy black on the map with the file name Todagin_wma26m.pdf, on file with geobc, ministry of forests, lands and Natural resource operations.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 122 594 Hectares.
Tofino mudflats wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1943.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 1 583 Hectares.
Tranquille wildlife management area All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1943.
The whole wildlife management area containing approximately 278 Hectares.
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Wildlife act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 488, ss. 4 (2) and 5 (1)]