View complete statute Protected areas of british columbia act [sbc 2000] chapter 17 Ecological reserves 1 (1) The ecological reserves named and described in schedule a are Continued or established for the purposes of the Ecological reserve act .
(2) The ecological reserves established and described in orders in council Referred to in schedule b are continued for the purposes of the Ecological reserve act .
Parks
2 The parks named and described in schedules c and d are continued or Established as class a parks for the purposes of the Park act .
Conservancies
2.1 The conservancies named and described in schedules e and f are Established or continued as conservancies for the purposes of the Park act .
Boundaries described by official plans 3 (1) For the purposes of this section, "official plan" Means a plan that is (a) Certified by the surveyor general, by signature on the plan, to be an Official plan, and (b) Kept on deposit in the crown land registry referred to in section 7 of The
Land act .
(2) All or part of the boundary of (a) An ecological reserve established under the Ecological reserve act Or established or continued by this act, (a.1) A conservancy established or continued by this act, or (b) A park established or continued by this act, May be described by reference to (c) One or more official plans, (d) Metes and bounds descriptions, (e) Lot or parcel descriptions, or (f) Any combination of the means referred to in paragraphs (c) to (e).
(3) To the extent of any variance between the marked representation of the Boundary on an official plan and the metes and bounds or other written Descriptions on the official plan, the metes and bounds or other Written descriptions prevail.
(4) Copies of official plans must be available for public inspection in The crown land registry during regular business hours, and a person May obtain a copy of an official plan on payment of a fee prescribed Under section 6 (3) of the Land act .
(5) A copy of an official plan, that is certified by the surveyor general To be a true copy, is admissible as evidence in a court without proof Of the signature or official character of the surveyor general.
(6) If an official plan referred to in schedule c or d contains a Reference to "by or under the Park act ", that reference is deemed to be a reference to "under the Park act Or the Protected areas of british columbia act ".
Spent
4-19 [consequential amendments. spent. 2000-17-4 to 19.] Contents
| Sections 1 to 19 | Schedule a | Schedule b | Schedule c | Schedule c (cont'd) | Schedule d | Schedule e | Schedule f