"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Railway Act
Part III: Locomotive Regulations
B.C. Reg. 454/59
Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.
B.C. Reg. 454/59
O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003
1
Railway Act
Part III: Locomotive Regulations
Steam Locomotive Rules
Interpretation
Definitions
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act"
means the
Railway Act
;
"certificate"
means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector;
"chief inspector"
or
"inspector"
means an inspecting engineer, inspector or assistant inspector
appointed under the provisions of the Act or of the
Public Service Act
;
"locomotive"
means and includes the boiler, steam engine or engines, steampipes
and connections and every part thereof, and all apparatus and
things attached to and connected therewith or used with reference
thereto;
"locomotive engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating a locomotive;
"owner"
means any person, firm or corporation in possession of a
locomotive, and includes the manager or other chief officer of
such firm or corporation;
"railway company's inspector"
means a person appointed by a railway company under the provisions
of these rules to carry out or supervise tests, examinations or
repairs of its locomotives.
[am. B.C. Regs. 40/91, s. 3; 75/95, s. 1.]
Extent and Application of Rules and Regulations
Application of rules and regulations
1
These rules and regulations shall apply to all railways operating
under the jurisdiction of the Government of British Columbia.
Railway company responsibility
2
Every railway company will be held responsible for the general
condition of all locomotives under its control. The mechanical
officer in charge at each point where boilerwork is done will be
held responsible for the inspection and repair of all locomotive
boilers and appurtenances under his jurisdiction. He must know
that all defects disclosed by any inspection are properly repaired
before the locomotive is returned to service. Such railway company
shall appoint a practical boilermaker, as inspector, to carry out
repairs, inspections and tests of locomotives, and all reports of
such filed with the ministry shall bear his signature in
conjunction with that of the mechanical officer in charge of the
shop where such repairs, tests and examinations are made. The safe
working pressure for each locomotive boiler shall be fixed by the
chief inspector of the ministry after full consideration has been
given to the design, workmanship, age and condition.
Portions of Boiler Code applicable
3
That portion of the regulations known as Part III and Part V of
the "British Columbia Railway Department Boiler Code", adopted by
Order in Council No. 126 under the
Railway Act
on the 21st day of January, 1947, shall govern the design,
registration and construction of all pressure parts used on
locomotives. In particular, Part III, relating to the design,
registration and construction of unfired pressure vessels, shall
govern the design, registration and construction of unfired
pressure vessels used on locomotives; and Part V, relating to the
design, registration and construction of railway locomotive
boilers, shall govern the design, registration and construction of
locomotive boilers and their appurtenances.
[ed. note: Boiler Code = that adopted by B.C. Reg. 45/91]
General Inspection Rules
Inspection before locomotive in service
4
Every locomotive shall be inspected before being put into service
and at least every 12 months thereafter by an inspector of the
ministry. Inspectors shall have the right, at all reasonable
hours, to examine locomotives, and may refuse to grant a
certificate for any locomotive found defective according to the
provisions of these rules. They may order out of service any
locomotive which for any cause they consider unfit and dangerous
to operate.
Reporting of defects
5
It is the duty of every locomotive engineer to inform the
inspector of any defects known or believed to exist in the
locomotive under his charge. The certificate of competency of any
locomotive engineer refusing or refraining from doing so may be
revoked by the inspector.
If boilers too hot for safety inspection
6
Inspectors may decline to examine boilers considered too hot for
safety and convenience, and shall refuse to grant certificates for
same until a satisfactory examination can be made.
Methods of boiler inspection
7
In order to satisfy himself as to the thickness of a plate or the
internal condition of a boiler, the inspector may, should he deem
it necessary, order holes to be cut therein and may demand such
information by drawings and specifications of the several parts as
will enable him to determine their strength. In the event of such
information being unobtainable, he shall use a safety factor of
5.5 with such additions thereto as his judgment may dictate.
First and subsequent inspection requirements
8
At the first inspection of a locomotive the jacket and covering
shall be removed by the owner or his agent, so that a thorough
examination of the plates and rivets can be made. At subsequent
inspections such jacket and covering or any part of same shall be
removed upon the request of the inspector.
Lap-joint longitudinal seam examination
9
Every boiler having lap-joint longitudinal seams without
reinforcing plates shall be examined with special care in order to
detect any grooving or cracks at the edges of the seams.
Safety valves, fittings, etc.
10
Inspectors shall see that the safety valves, water gauges, test
cocks, blow-off pipes, main steam pipes and all fittings and
connections of boilers are in good order and sufficient in number
and that they comply with the requirements of these rules and
regulations.
Calculation of strength of boiler
11
Inspectors shall calculate the strength of locomotive boilers by
formulæ provided in Part V of the "British Columbia Railway
Department Boiler Code", and determine the safe working pressure
thereof according to the calculated strength of the various parts
and the workmanship and materials of which they are composed, and
shall record such working pressure upon the certificate of
inspection. In cases where the necessary formula for any type of
boiler is not provided, application shall be made to the chief
inspector who shall furnish same.
[ed. note: Boiler Code = that adopted by B.C. Reg. 45/91]
Excess of pressure
12
In cases where inspectors find that a locomotive boiler is or has
been carrying an excess of pressure beyond that which has been
recorded on the certificate of inspection, they shall report same
to the chief inspector for prosecution and require the owner to
install thereon a lockup valve of approved pattern to prevent the
carrying of any excessive pressure.
Certificates
Issuance and display of certificate
13
A certificate shall be issued by the inspector for every
locomotive found, after inspection and testing, to be in
satisfactory working condition. Such certificate, showing date of
last inspection and working pressure allowed, shall be placed
under glass in the cab of every such locomotive.
Period of certificate
14
Certificates shall be issued covering a period of 12 months, but
should the inspector consider it advisable, he may issue a
certificate for a lesser period.
Suspension of certificate
15
Inspectors finding defects in any locomotive having an unexpired
certificate may suspend such certificate until repairs are made or
necessary fittings supplied.
Repealed
16
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
Fees
Annual inspection fee
17
The owner of a steam locomotive must pay the applicable fee
prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation for an annual inspection
of the steam locomotive.
[en. B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 1.]
Repealed
18-19
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
Interior Inspection of Boilers
Interior inspection
20
Inspectors shall examine the interior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever a sufficient number of
flues are removed to allow examination.
Methods of inspection
21
In order to ascertain the thickness of plates or to detect the
presence of cracks or the effects of corrosion in inaccessible
internal areas, the chief inspector may approve the use of X-ray,
radiographs or other non-destructive tests; he may, should he deem
it necessary, order the removal of the flues or other parts when
an indication of leaks or defects are such that the removal of the
flues or other parts would provide the sole means of access to the
area affected.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Inspection when flues removed
22
The company shall notify the chief inspector when the flues of the
boiler of any locomotive in service have been taken out so that an
inspector from the ministry may make an inspection of the internal
parts thereof, and the chief inspector shall submit a report to
the company setting forth the findings of the internal inspection,
and a copy of such report shall be kept on record in the office of
the chief inspector. When the flues are taken out, all scale must
be removed and the inside of the boiler thoroughly cleaned.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Details of inspection
23
Inspectors must examine the entire interior of the boiler for
cracks, pitting, grooving or indication of overheating, and for
damage where mud has collected or heavy scale formed. The edges of
plates, all laps, seams and points where cracks and defects are
likely to develop or which an exterior examination may have
indicated must be given an especially minute examination. It must
be seen that braces and stays are taut, that pins are properly
secured in place and that each is in a condition to support its
proportion of the load.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Exterior Inspection of Boilers
Exterior inspection
24
Inspectors shall examine the exterior of every boiler thoroughly
before it is put into service and whenever the jacket and lagging
are removed.
Inspection under hydrostatic pressure
25
The inspector shall examine the exterior of the boiler while it is
under hydrostatic pressure. If the inspector considers it
necessary, he may order the removal of the jacket and lagging at
any time when leaks are indicated.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Hydrostatic Testing of Boilers
Requirement for hydrostatic testing
26
Inspectors may, whenever it is deemed necessary, and they shall,
before a locomotive is put into service, and at least once a year
thereafter, subject the boiler of same to a hydrostatic test 25%
in excess of the working pressure allowed, using water at a
temperature of 100° Fahrenheit; provided, however, that such test
may be omitted for reasons to be stated in the inspector's report.
Owner's responsibility during testing
27
For the purpose of such tests the owner or his agent shall provide
the necessary piping and fittings to connect the inspector's pump
to the boiler and shall provide men to fill the boiler with water,
make all joints, work the test pump and assist the inspector
during the test.
Dome-cap and throttle stand-pipe removal
28
The dome-cap and throttle stand-pipe must be removed and the
interior surface and connections of the boiler examined thoroughly
as conditions will permit. In case the boiler can be entered and
inspected without removing the throttle stand-pipe, the inspector
may order the dome-cap only to be removed, but he must note this
variation from the rule in his inspection report.
Inspection by railway company inspector
29
When a railway company's inspector makes the test an authorized
representative of the company thoroughly familiar with boiler
construction must personally witness the test and examine the
boiler while it is under hydrostatic pressure.
Inspection after repairs
30
When all necessary repairs have been completed the boiler shall be
fired up and the steam pressure raised to not less than the
allowed working pressure and the boiler and appurtenances
carefully examined. All cocks, valves, seams, rivets and bolts
must be tight under the pressure and all defects disclosed must be
repaired.
Defects and reinspection
31
In any case where defects are discovered or in which the test is
unsatisfactory to the inspector, the defects shall be made good
and the boiler reinspected before a certificate is issued.
Stay-bolt Testing
Time of testing rigid bolts
32
All stay-bolts shall be tested at least once each month.
Stay-bolts shall also be tested immediately after each hydrostatic
test.
Method of testing rigid bolts
33
The inspector must tap each bolt and determine the broken bolts
from the sound or the vibration of the sheet. If stay-bolt tests
are made when the boiler is filled with water, there must be not
less than 50 pound pressure on the boiler. Should the boiler not
be under pressure, the test may be made after draining all the
water from the boiler, in which case the vibration of the sheet
will indicate any unsoundness.
Method of testing flexible stay-bolts with caps
34
(1)  All stay-bolts equipped with caps over the outer ends
shall have the caps removed upon completion of 60 calendar months
actual service, provided such service is performed within 6
consecutive years, at which time all bolts and sleeves must be
examined and effectively tested for breakage fracture. Portions of
calendar months "out of service" will not be counted. Time "out of
service" must be properly accounted for by "out of service"
reports and notations of months claimed "out of service" made on
the back of each subsequent inspection report and cab-card. Each
time a hydrostatic test is applied, the hammer test required by
sections 32 and 33 must be made while the boiler is under
hydrostatic pressure not less than the allowed working-pressure.
(2)  The removal of flexible stay-bolt caps and other tests
shall be reported on Form No. 2 and a proper record kept in the
office of the railway company of the inspections and tests made.
(3)  Fire box sheets must be carefully examined at least once
every month for mud burn, bulging and indication of broken
stay-bolts.
(4)  Stay-bolt caps shall be removed, or any of the above
tests made, whenever the ministry's inspector or the railway
company's inspector considers the removal desirable in order to
determine thoroughly the condition of stay-bolts or stay-bolt
sleeves.
Method of testing flexible stay-bolts without caps
35
Flexible stay-bolts which do not have caps shall be tested once
each month, the same as rigid bolts. Each time a hydrostatic test
is applied, such stay-bolt test shall be made while the boiler is
under hydrostatic pressure not less than the allowed working
pressure and proper notation of such test made on Form No. 2.
Broken stay-bolts
36
No boiler shall be allowed to remain in service when there are 2
adjacent stay-bolts broken or plugged in any part of the fire box
or combustion chamber, nor when 3 or more are broken or plugged in
a circle 4 feet in diameter, nor when 5 or more are broken or
plugged in the entire boiler.
Telltale holes
37
All stay-bolts shorter than 8 inches, except flexible bolts, shall
have telltale holes at least 3/16 inch in diameter and not less
than 1 1/4 inches deep in the outer end. These holes must be kept
open at all times.
Steam Gauges
Location of gauges
38
Every boiler shall have at least one steam gauge which will
correctly indicate the working pressure. Care must be taken to
locate the gauge so that it will be kept reasonably cool and can
be conveniently read by the enginemen.
Siphon
39
Every gauge shall have a siphon of ample capacity to prevent steam
entering the gauge. The pipe connection shall enter the boiler
direct and shall be maintained steam-tight between the boiler and
gauge. The siphon pipe and its connections to the boiler must be
cleaned each time the gauge is tested.
Time of testing
40
Steam gauges shall be tested at least once every 3 months and also
when any irregularity is reported.
Method of testing
41
Steam gauges shall be compared with an accurate test gauge or dead
weight tester and gauges found inaccurate shall be corrected
before being put into service.
Badge plates
42
A metal badge plate showing the allowed steam pressure shall be
attached to the boiler head in the cab. If the boiler head is
lagged, the lagging and jacket shall be cut away so the plate can
be seen.
Boiler number
43
The builder's number of the boiler, if known, shall be stamped on
the dome. If the builder's number of the boiler cannot be
obtained, an assigned number, which shall be used in making out a
specification card, shall be stamped on the face plate.
Safety Valves
Safety valves
44
Every boiler shall be equipped with at least 2 safety valves, the
capacity of which shall be sufficient to prevent, under any
conditions of service, an accumulation of pressure more than 5%
above the allowed steam pressure.
Setting of safety valves
45
Safety valves shall be set by the gauge used on the boiler to pop
at pressures not exceeding 3% above the allowed steam pressure;
the gauge in all cases to be tested before the safety valves are
set or any changes made in the setting. When safety valves are
being set, the water level in the boiler must not be above the
highest gauge cock.
Frequency of testing
46
Safety valves shall be tested under steam at least once every 3
months and also when any irregularity is reported.
Water Glass and Gauge Cocks
Water glass and gauge cocks
47
Every boiler shall be equipped with at least one water glass and 3
gauge cocks. The lowest gauge cock and the lowest reading of the
water glass shall be not less than 3 inches above the highest part
of the crown sheet.
Water glass valves
48
All water glasses shall be supplied with 2 valves or shut off
cocks, one at the upper and one at the lower connection of the
boiler, and also a drain cock, so constructed and located that
they can be easily opened and closed by hand.
Time of cleaning
49
The spindles of all gauge cocks and water glass cocks shall be
removed and cocks thoroughly cleaned of scale and sediment at
least once each month.
Testing before each trip
50
All water glasses must be blown out and gauge cocks tested before
each trip and gauge cocks must be maintained in such condition
that they can be easily opened and closed by hand without the aid
of a wrench or other tool.
Water and lubricator glass shields
51
Water gauge glass mountings on all locomotives must be protected
by a strong cage made of aluminium or brass metal fitted with
heavy specially toughened glass shields 3/8 inch think, with an
outlet pipe attached to the bottom of the water gauge mounting
which will allow the flow of steam from broken gauge glass to
escape below the foot plate of the locomotive or close to the foot
plate itself. These appurtenances must be so located as to ensure
a correct reading of the level of the water in the boiler at all
times, and be in full view of both the engineer and fireman, and
the lights so placed that there will be a clear and unobstructed
view of the water in the mounting.
Water glass lamps
52
All water glasses must be supplied with a suitable lamp properly
located to enable the engineer to see easily the water in the
glass.
Injectors
Injectors
53
Injectors must be kept in good condition, free from scale, and
must be tested before each trip. Boiler-checks, delivery pipes,
feed water pipes, tank hose and tank valves must be kept in good
condition, free from leaks and from foreign substances that would
obstruct the flow of water.
Flue Plugs
Flue Plugs
54
Flue plugs must be provided with a hole through the centre not
less than 3/4 inch in diameter. When one or more tubes are plugged
at both ends, the plugs must be tied together by means of a rod
not less than 5/8 inch in diameter. Flue plugs must be removed and
flues repaired at the first point where such repairs can properly
be made.
Washing Boilers
Time of washing
55
All boilers should be thoroughly washed as often as the water
conditions require, but not less frequently than once each month.
All boilers shall be considered as having been in continuous
service between washouts, unless the dates of the days that the
boiler was out of service are properly certified on washout
reports and the report of inspection.
Plugs to be removed
56
When boilers are washed, all washout, arch and water bar plugs
must be removed.
Water tubes
57
Special attention must be given the arch and water bar tubes to
see that they are free from scale and sediment.
Office record
58
An accurate record of all locomotive boiler washouts shall be kept
in the office of the railway company. The following information
must be entered on the day that the boiler is washed:
(a) number of locomotive;
(b) date of washout;
(c) signature of boiler washer or inspector;
(d) statement that spindles of gauge cocks and water glass
cocks were removed and cocks cleaned;
(e) signature of the boiler inspector or the employee who
removed the spindles and cleaned the cocks.
Steam Leaks
Leaks under lagging
59
If a serious leak develops under the lagging, an examination must
be made and the leak located. If the leak is found to be due to a
crack in the shell or to any other defect which may reduce safety,
the boiler must be taken out of service at once and the chief
inspector notified before any repairs are made.
Leaks in front of enginemen
60
All steam valves, cocks and joints, studs, bolts and seams shall
be kept in such repair that they will not emit steam in front of
the enginemen so as to obscure their vision.
Filing Reports
Report of inspection — monthly
61
Not less than once each month and within 15 days after each
inspection, a report of inspection, Form No. 1, size 6 by 9
inches, shall be filed with the chief inspector of the ministry
for each locomotive used, and a copy shall be filed in the office
of the chief mechanical officer having charge of the locomotive.
Report of inspection — annual
62
Not less than once each year and within 15 days after hydrostatic
and other required tests have been completed, a report of such
tests showing the general conditions of the boiler and repairs
made shall be submitted on Form No. 2, size 6 by 9 inches, and
filed with the chief inspector, and a copy shall be filed in the
office of the chief mechanical officer having charge of the
locomotive. The monthly report will not be required for the month
in which this report is filed.
"Out of service" reports
63
"Out of service" reports shall be filed at the end of the month
which they cover and show date engine is taken out of service,
reason therefor and location on date report is filed, as shown
hereunder:
Out of service at ............................ From
......................................[
date
].
Account of ........................................... and will
not be used again until inspection report is filed.
Dated ................................[
date
], at .........................................................
Before such locomotives are returned to service an inspection must
be made and report filed.
Specification card
64
(1)  A specification card, size 8 by 10 1/2 inches, Form No.
4, containing the results of the calculations made in determining
the working pressure and other necessary data shall be filed in
the office of the chief inspector for each locomotive boiler. A
copy shall be filed in the office of the chief mechanical officer
having charge of the locomotive. Every specification card shall be
verified by the engineer making the calculations and shall be
approved by the chief inspector. These specification cards shall
be filed as promptly as thorough examination and accurate
calculation will permit. Where accurate drawings of boilers are
available, the data for specification card, said Form No. 4, may
be taken from the drawings, and such specification cards must be
completed and forwarded forthwith. Where accurate drawings are not
available, the required data must be obtained at the first
opportunity when general repairs are made or when flues are
removed. Specification cards must be forwarded within one month
after examination has been made.
(2)  When any repairs or changes are made which affect the
data shown on the specification card, a corrected card or an
alteration report on a form, size 8 by 10 1/2 inches, properly
certified to, giving details of such changes, shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of their completion. This report
should cover
(a) application of new barrel sheets or domes,
(b) application of patches to barrels or domes of boilers or
to portion of wrapper sheet or crown bar boilers which is not
supported by stay-bolts,
(c) longitudinal seam reinforcements,
(d) changes in size or number of braces, giving maximum
stress,
(e) initial application of super heaters, arch or water bar
tubes, giving number and dimensions of tubes, and
(f) changes in number or capacity of safety valves.
Report of patches should be accompanied by a drawing or blue print
of the patch showing its location in regard to the centre line of
the boiler, giving all necessary dimensions and showing the nature
and location of the defect. Patches previously applied should be
reported the first time the boiler is stripped to permit an
examination.
Ministry certificate and monthly inspection report
65
(1)  A certificate issued by the ministry showing date of
inspection and steam pressure allowed shall be placed under glass
and displayed in a conspicuous place in the cab of the locomotive
before the boiler for which the certificate was issued is put into
service.
(2)  A valid copy of the monthly inspection report, Form No.
1, or annual inspection report, Form No. 2, properly filled out
and signed, shall be placed under glass and displayed adjacent to
the certificate as required under subsection (1) of this section
before the boiler inspected is put into service.
Fire box damage report
66
In all cases of damage to fire boxes in locomotives by shortage of
water, a report covering such damage must be promptly forwarded to
the chief inspector.
Locomotive numbers on file
67
Companies shall file with the chief inspector a list showing the
numbers of all locomotives owned or leased by them; also a list
giving the numbers of all additional locomotives that may be
purchased, built or leased by the same companies from time to
time.
Inspection of Locomotives
Signalling devices
68
Every locomotive engine or other motive power used for hauling or
switching cars shall be equipped and maintained with a bell and
with a whistle. On locomotives of 300 rated horse power or more
where for any reason standard railway steam whistles are not used,
the signalling device to replace such whistles shall have a sound
intensity rating of at least 107 decibels at 100 feet distant, and
the sound produced by such signalling device shall be of a
multi-toned character similar to that of a standard railway
locomotive steam whistle. The frequency of sound emitted by such
signalling device shall range between 256 and 1 000 cycles per
second.
Daily inspection
69
Every locomotive and tender shall be inspected after each trip, or
day's work, and any serious defects found shall be repaired before
the locomotive is returned to service.
Air brakes
70
It must be known before each trip that the brakes on locomotive
and tender are in safe and suitable condition for service; that
the air compressor or compressors are in condition to provide an
ample supply of air for the service in which the locomotive is
used; and that all other devices for controlling or regulating the
pressure are properly maintained.
Testing main reservoirs
71
Every main reservoir, before being put into service and at least
once after 12 calendar months service, provided such service is
performed within 2 consecutive years, shall be subjected to
hydrostatic pressure not less than 25% above the maximum air
pressure. The entire surface of the reservoir shall be hammer
tested each time the locomotive is shopped for general repairs,
but not less frequently than once after 18 calendar months
service, provided such service is performed within 2 consecutive
years.
Draw gear between locomotive and tender
72
(1)  The draw gear between locomotive and tender, together
with the pins and fastenings, shall be maintained in safe and
suitable condition for service. The pins and draw bars shall be
removed and carefully examined for defects not less frequently
than once each 3 months. In the event of the locomotive being laid
up one or more full periods of 30 days, the time for examination
of pins and draw bars may be extended by the number of full 30 day
periods out of service. In the event of the examination coming due
when a locomotive is out of service, such examination must be made
just prior to the locomotive being returned to service. Suitable
means for securing the draw bar pins in place shall be provided.
Inverted draw bar pins shall be held in place by plate or stirrup.
Report, properly certified, showing date pins and draw bar were
removed for inspection, and their condition, shall be made on
boiler inspection report of the month when the inspection is made.
(2)  Two or more safety bars or safety chains of ample
strength shall be provided between locomotive and tender (except
when double draw bars are used), maintained in safe and suitable
condition for service and inspected at the same time draw gear is
inspected.
(3)  Safety chains or safety bars shall be of the minimum
length consistent with the curvature of the railroad on which the
locomotive is operated.
(4)  Lost motion between locomotives and tenders not equipped
with spring buffer shall be kept to a minimum and shall not exceed
1/2 inch.
(5)  When spring buffers are used between locomotives and
tenders, the spring shall be applied with not less than 3/4 inch
compression and shall at all times be under sufficient compression
to keep the chafing faces in contact.
Chafing irons
72.1
Chafing irons of such radius as will permit proper curving shall
be securely attached to locomotive and tender and shall be
maintained in condition to permit free movement laterally and
vertically.
Draft gear
73
Draft gear and attachments on locomotives and tenders shall be
securely fastened and maintained in safe and suitable condition
for service.
Lateral motion
74
The total lateral motion or play between the hubs of the wheels
and the boxes on any pair of wheels shall not exceed the following
limits:
Inch
For engine-truck wheels (trucks with swing centres)
1
For engine-truck wheels (trucks with rigid centres)
1 1/2
For trailing-truck wheels
1
For driving-wheels (more than one pair) not more than
3/4
These limits may be increased on locomotive operating on track
where the curvature exceeds 20° when it can be shown that
conditions require additional lateral motion.
Compliance with safety appliance standards
75
All locomotives shall comply with the safety appliance standards
of the ministry with respect to pilots, foot boards, hand holds,
couplers, uncoupling levers, running boards, hand rails and steps.
Locomotive Lights
Headlights
76
(1)  Each locomotive used in road service between sunset and
sunrise shall have a head light which will enable persons with
normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal weather
conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a distance
of 800 feet or more ahead of the locomotive, and such head lights
must be maintained in good condition.
(2)  Locomotives used in road service which are regularly
required to run backwards for any portion of their trip, except to
pick up a detached portion of their train or in making terminal
movements, shall have on the rear a head light which will meet the
foregoing requirements.
(3)  Nothing in the foregoing rules shall prevent the use of
a device whereby the light may be diminished in yards and at
stations to an extent that will enable the person or persons
operating the locomotive to see a dark object the size of a man
for a distance of 300 feet or more ahead of the locomotive under
the same conditions as set forth above.
(4)  When 2 or more locomotives are used in the same train,
the leading locomotive only will be required to display a head
light.
Classification lamps
77
Each locomotive used in road service shall be provided with such
classification lamps as may be required by the rules of the
company operating the locomotive. When such classification lamps
are provided, they shall be kept clean and maintained in safe and
suitable condition for service.
Lights for yard service after dark
78
Each locomotive used in yard service between sunset and sunrise
shall have 2 head lights, one located on the front of the
locomotive and one on the rear, each of which will enable persons
with normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal
weather conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a
distance of 300 feet or more, and such head lights must be
maintained in good condition.
Cab lights
79
Each locomotive used between sunset and sunrise shall have cab
lamps which will provide sufficient illumination for the steam,
air and water gauges to enable the enginemen to make necessary and
accurate readings from their usual and proper positions in the
cab. These lights shall be so located and constructed that the
light will shine only on those parts requiring illumination.
Locomotives used in road service shall have an additional lamp
conveniently located to enable the person operating the locomotive
to easily and accurately read train orders and time tables and so
constructed that it may be readily darkened or extinguished.
Locomotive Rules
Prescribed specifications
80
Locomotives which are defective or do not comply with
specification as prescribed in the following list must not be
allowed to leave terminals, or be used at terminals, in traffic
service:
(a) steam leaks from any part of a locomotive which renders
it impossible for engineer to see signals in sufficient time to
enable him to bring his train to a stop within a required
distance;
(b) air brakes on locomotives or tenders not in serviceable
condition;
(c)
(i)  wheels shall be securely pressed on axles.
Prick-punching or shimming the wheel fit will not be permitted.
The diameter of wheels on the same axle shall not vary more than
3/32 inch;
(ii)  wheels used on a standard gauge track will be out of
gauge if the inside gauge of flanges, measured on base line, is
less than 53 inches or more than 53 3/8 inches;
(iii)  the distance back to back of flanges of wheels mounted
on the same axle shall not vary more than 1/4 inch;
(d) cast iron or cast steel wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  when the flat spot is 2 1/2 inches or over in length, or
if there are 2 or more adjoining spots each 2 inches or over in
length;
(ii)  if the chip exceeds 1 1/2 inches in length and 1/2 inch
in width;
(iii)  if the tread, measured from the flange at a point 5/8
inch above the tread, is less than 3 3/4 inches in width;
(iv)  wheels with defective treads on account of cracks or
shelled out spots 2 1/2 inches or over, or so numerous as to
endanger the safety of the wheel;
(v)  wheels having defective tread on account of cracks or
shelling out due to heating;
(vi)  seams 1/2 inch long or over, at a distance of 1/2 inch
or less from the throat of the flange, or seams 3 inches or more
in length, if such seams are within the limits of 3 3/4 inches
from the flange, measured at a point 5/8 inch from the tread;
(vii)  wheels on axles with journals 5 inches by 9 inches or
over with flanges having flat vertical surfaces extending 7/8 inch
or more from the tread, or flanges 1 inch thick or less gauged at
a point 3/8 inch above tread. Wheels on axles with journals less
than 5 inches by 9 inches with flanges having flat vertical
surfaces extending 1 inch or more from the tread, or flanges 15/16
inch thick or less gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the tread;
(viii)  if the tread is worn sufficiently hollow to render
the flange or rim liable to breakage;
(ix)  if the wheel is cracked from the wheel fit outwards;
(x)  cracked tread, cracked plate or one or more cracked
brackets;
(xi)  wheels out of gauge;
(xii)  wheels loose on axle.
NOTE: The determination of flat spots, worn flanges and broken
rims shall be made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8, and its
application to defective wheels as shown in Figs, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13;
(e) forged steel or steel tired wheels with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective retaining rings
or tires; broken or cracked hubs, plates, spokes or bolts;
(ii)  slid-flat spot 2 1/2 inches or longer; or, if there are
2 or more adjoining spots, each 2 inches or longer;
(iii)  defective tread on account of cracks or shelled-out
spots 2 1/2 inches or longer, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;
(iv)  broken flange;
(v)  flange worn to 15/16 inch or less in thickness, gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having flat vertical
surface 1 inch or more from the tread; tread worn 5/16 inch;
flange more than 1 1/2 inches from tread to top of flange;
(vi)  wheels out of gauge;
(f) driving and trailing wheel centres with divided rims
shall be properly fitted with iron or steel filling blocks before
the tires are applied, and such filling blocks shall be properly
maintained. When shims are inserted between the tire and the wheel
centre, not more than 2 thicknesses of shims may be used, one of
which must extend entirely around the wheel;
(g) driving wheel counterbalance shall be maintained in a
safe and suitable condition for service;
(h) driving and trailing wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  driving or trailing wheel centres with one or more
spokes in wheel broken;
(ii)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective tires or tire
fastenings; broken or cracked hubs or wheels out of gauge;
(i)
(i)  the minimum height of flange for driving or trailing
wheel tires, measured from tread, shall be 1 inch for locomotives
used in road service, except that on locomotives where
construction will not permit the full height of the flange on all
drivers, the minimum height of flange on one pair of driving
wheels may be 5/8 inch;
(ii)  the minimum height of flange for driving wheel tires,
measured from tread, shall be 7/8 inch for locomotives used in
switching service;
(iii)  the maximum taper for tread of tire from throat of
flange to outside of tire, for driving and trailing wheels for
locomotives used in road service, shall be 1/4 inch, and for
locomotives used in switching service 5/16 inch;
(iv)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of standard gauge locomotives shall be 5 1/2 inches for
flanged tires and 6 inches for plain tires;
(v)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of narrow gauge locomotives shall be 5 inches for flanged
tires and 5 1/2 inches for plain tires;
(vi)  when all tires are turned, or new tires applied for
driving and trailing wheels, the diameter of the wheels on the
same axles, or in the same driving wheel base, shall not vary more
than 3/32 inch. When a single tire is applied the diameter must
not vary more than 3/32 inch from that of the opposite wheel on
the same axle. When a single pair of tires is applied the diameter
must be within 3/32 inch of the average diameter of the wheels in
the driving wheel base to which they are applied;
(vii)  driving and trailing wheel tires with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service: Slid-flat
spot 2 1/2 inches or more in length; flange 15/16 inch or less in
thickness, gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having
flat vertical surface 1 inch or more from tread; tread worn hollow
5/16 inch on locomotives used in road service, or 3/8 inch on
locomotives used in switching service; flange more than 1 1/2
inches from tread to top of flange. (See Figs. 9, 10 and 11.)
Note: The determination of flat spots and worn flanges shall be
made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8, and its application to
defective tires as shown in Figs. 9, 10 and 11;
(j) locomotives with defective springs on any part of
locomotive or tender which are unable to carry their respective
weight when locomotive is standing.
Accidents and Their Investigation
Liability
81
In case of an explosion taking place in any locomotive or other
power for which the owner or lessee thereof has not obtained a
certificate of inspection, or if the certificate of inspection has
expired, and any person be killed or injured thereby, or any
property be destroyed or damaged, the owner or lessee of such
locomotive or other power shall prima facie be deemed guilty of
negligence and liable for any injury occasioned by such explosion
and the onus shall be on the owner or lessee of such locomotive or
other power to show that all reasonable and proper precautions had
been taken to prevent such explosion or accident.
Report of accident by company owner or operator
82
In the case of an accident resulting from failure, from any cause,
of a locomotive boiler or other boilers, or any of their
appurtenances, resulting in serious injury or death to one or more
persons, the company owning or operating such locomotive or other
boilers shall immediately transmit by wire to the chief inspector,
at his office in Vancouver, B.C., report of such accident stating
the nature of the accident, the place at which it occurred and
where the locomotive boiler or other boilers may be inspected.
Such wire shall immediately be confirmed by mail giving a full
detailed report of such accident stating, so far as may be known,
the causes, and giving a complete list of the killed or injured.
Report of accident by engineer in charge
83
On the occurrence of an accident to any locomotive or other
equipment, the engineer in charge shall report such accident in
writing to the chief inspector or, in default, the inspector may
cancel his certificate.
No tampering until after inspection
84
Water glass mountings, all gauge cocks or any of the appurtenances
in connection with the water supply of the locomotive boiler must
not be removed from the boiler and in no way interfered with until
after the chief inspector has completed his inspection.
Investigation by chief inspector
85
The chief inspector may hold an investigation with respect to any
accident to any part of a locomotive or other equipment to which
these rules apply and with respect to any injury caused to any
person or property by the alleged negligence or incompetence of an
engineer holding a certificate; and he may summon witnesses and
compel their attendance before him by the same process as Courts
of Justice and may administer oaths and examine witnesses touching
the cause of such accident, and he shall forthwith report in
writing thereon to the minister.
Appeal
86
An appeal shall lie from any ruling or decision of an inspector to
the chief inspector, and from him to the minister whose decision
shall be final.
Expert assistance
87
In any appeal the minister, if he thinks fit, may summon to his
assistance any expert engineer who shall attend and assist
accordingly.
Charge of neglect against inspector
88
Any charge of neglect of duty or other complaint against an
inspector shall be made in writing to the minister stating the
specific charge or charges.
Penalty
89
Every railway company violating any of the provisions of these
rules shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding $500 for each and
every such violation.
Locomotive Engineers' Certificates of Competency
Certificate requirement
90
No person shall be employed as engineer and no person shall act as
engineer on any locomotive operating under these rules unless the
person holds a certificate of competency or a temporary
certificate granted by the minister; provided, however, that in
case of illness or other unavoidable cause the engineer in charge
is absent from duty, without fault or collusion of the owners or
of any person interested, and an engineer holding such certificate
is not available, then such deficiency may be filled temporarily
until an engineer holding such certificate can be obtained, and
the chief inspector shall be immediately notified of the temporary
change by the owner of the locomotive and by the person acting
temporarily as engineer.
Application for examination
91
Candidates for examination must fill out a form of application
which can be obtained from the chief inspector and when properly
filled in should be returned to him together with the applicable
fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (i); 2/99, App. 2, s. 3.]
Testimonials required
92
All candidates must produce testimonials as to service as
engineers or firemen, such testimonials to be signed by their
employers. Candidates must have at least 18 months service as
engineers or firemen on locomotives and must enclose with their
application for examination a certificate from some qualified
physician certifying to the condition of their eyesight and
hearing, as required by the Rules for Visual Acuity.
Railway company examinations
93
Railway companies having mechanical and operating rules approved
by the ministry must examine their employees as to their general
mechanical ability and knowledge of such rules before giving them
employment or promotion as engineers on steam locomotives. They
must also notify the chief inspector at least one month before
such examinations take place in order that an inspector appointed
by the ministry may be in attendance. Candidates applying for
unrestricted industrial certification under this rule may be
certified but will be required to pay the necessary fee as set
forth in section 91 of this Part and to write an examination in
the office of the chief inspector.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Term of certificate
94
Every certificate, unless stated therein, shall be granted for
life or during good conduct, but if it be proven to the ministry
that the holder is guilty of negligence or has refused to comply
with any of the provisions of these rules, his certificate may be
suspended, marked or revoked.
Certificate replacement
95
If an engineer proves to the satisfaction of the chief inspector
that he has lost his certificate or that it has been destroyed, he
may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment of the
applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (j); 2/99, App. 2, s. 5.]
Temporary certificate
96
Upon application in writing by the company, the chief inspector
may issue a temporary certificate to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as engineer or fireman on the locomotive
specified; such certificate to be good only for one month from
date of issue.
Some Obligations and Penalties
Penalty for defective work
97
Any person who constructs a boiler or any part of a boiler, or who
makes any repairs to same, such construction or repairs being
known to be defective, shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than $100 and not exceeding $300.
Penalty for alteration of boiler safety valve
98
No person shall in any way alter the safety valve of a boiler so
as to carry a greater pressure than that allowed by the inspector
under a penalty of not less than $200 and not exceeding $500.
Engineer's duty to test safety valve and report failure
99
It shall be the duty of the engineer in charge to cause the safety
valve to blow off steam often enough to satisfy himself that the
valves are in good order; and it shall be his duty to report to
the inspector any failure of such valves to operate.
Penalty for no report of altered safety valve
100
In case no such report is made and a safety valve is found to have
been tampered with or put out of order, the certificate of the
engineer having such boiler in charge shall be revoked; and the
inspector shall have power to cancel the certificate of inspection
for such boiler until another engineer has been placed in charge.
Penalty for alteration of steam gauge
101
Any person who alters or conceals or otherwise tampers with the
steam gauge so as to prevent the actual steam pressure of the
boiler from being seen and ascertained by any person, shall be
liable to a penalty of not less than $100 and not exceeding $500.
Penalty for boiler operation without valid inspection certificate
102
Any person operating a boiler, as well as the owner or lessee
thereof, in case the same is being operated with his consent,
without there being an unexpired certificate of inspection
thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $5 a day for each and
every day that he shall operate such uncertificated boiler, except
in such cases where the owner has made a request in writing to an
inspector to have such boiler examined but for good and valid
reasons such inspection has not been made.
Penalty for failure to comply with inspector's requirements
103
It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any
locomotive pronounced by the inspector as unsafe to cease to use
the same until such repairs as are indicated by the inspector are
made, and in case of failure to comply with the requirements of
the inspector, the person owning or leasing, as well as the person
operating any such locomotive, shall be liable to a penalty of not
less than $100 and shall also be liable for any damage to person
or property resulting therefrom.
Fire Prevention Regulations
Spark and live coal arrest
104
Unless otherwise exempted by a special order of the ministry,
every company whose railway is under construction or being
operated shall cause all locomotives and other steam engines,
portable or stationary, to be fitted and kept fitted in good order
with practical and efficient devices for arresting the escape of
sparks or live coals as hereinafter set out.
Smoke box
105
The smoke box of every coal burning locomotive used on the railway
shall have installed therein, so as to extend completely over the
aperture through which the smoke ascends, a double-crimped wire
netting as follows:
(a) square mesh not larger than 2 2/3 by 2 2/3 per inch of
No. 10 B.W.G. wire. The condemning limits for the netting shall be
when the opening is 19/64 inch or the wire worn to 0.065 inch in
thickness;
(b) oblong mesh not larger than 3/16 inch in width and 3/4
inch in length of wire, Warp No. 10, Shute No. 9 B.W.G. The
condemning limit for the netting shall be when the opening is 7/32
inch in width and 25/32 inch in length, or when wires are worn to
0.065 inch in thickness;
(c) oblong mesh not larger than 3/16 inch in width and 1/2
inch in length of wire, Warp No. 10, Shute No. 9 B.W.G. The
condemning limit for the netting shall be when the opening is 7/32
inch in width and 17/32 inch in length, or when the wires are worn
to 0.065 inch in thickness;
(d) square mesh not larger than 3 by 3 per inch of No. 10
B.W.G. wire. The condemning limit for the netting shall be when
the opening is 15/64 inch, or when the wire is worn to 0.065 inch
in thickness;
(e) square mesh not larger than 3 by 3 per inch of No. 11
B.W.G. wire. The condemning limit for the netting shall be when
the opening is 15.5/64 inch, or when the wire is worn to 0.065
inch in thickness;
(f) baffle plates, table plates, diaphragms, manhole and
superheater doors shall be fitted so that no openings in the same
shall exceed 1/8 inch in width. Cement or asbestos shall not be
used to fill in openings in such fire protective appliances. Such
doors, plates, etc., shall be securely held in place by cotters or
keys so constructed that they cannot fall out and all fire
protective appliances, netting or plates shall be so securely
fastened that displacement cannot occur by warping;
(g) upon application from a company, tests or trials of fire
protective devices other than as specified in this section may be
made only on receipt of permission from the chief inspector.
Ashpans, hoppers, etc.
106
(1)  In no case shall there be an opening in the ash-pan
body, hoppers, slides or fittings thereof in excess of 1/8 inch in
width; and the condemning limit of openings on ash-pan and hopper
doors when closed shall be 1/4 inch.
(2)  Draught openings under foundation ring in ash-pans of
wide fire box type shall be protected by a coping or hinged door,
closed in at each end, and extending 2 1/2 inches above the level
of the bottom of the foundation ring; provided that where adequate
protection by coping or hinged doors extending above the level of
the bottom of the foundation ring cannot be applied, inside
deflectors extending 4 inches below the bottom of the foundation
ring shall be installed or a combination of outside and inside
coverage of not less than 4 inches shall be used. Standard mesh
netting equal to that required in the smoke box may be used for
the outside coping or hinged door where solid plate cannot be
used.
(3)  Draught openings in the side, front or back of ash-pans
of wide or narrow type fire boxes in which the hinged plate or
coping is not used in accordance with subsection (2), shall be
protected by solid deflecting plates providing a total of not less
than 2 1/2 inches coverage, such deflecting plates to be closed in
at each end. Standard mesh netting equal to that required in the
smoke box may be used for extra draught openings where solid
deflecting plates cannot be provided.
(4)  Draught openings of shallow ash-pans shall be protected
by standard smoke box netting.
(5)  Openings in ends of ash-pans through which grate-rods
operate shall be protected against escape of ashes or fire;
grate-rods shall be carried in sliding plates with clearance
around rod not to exceed 1/16 inch when new; the condemning limit
shall be 1/8 inch; or openings must be protected against the
escape of ashes or fire by hoods or deflecting plates.
(6)  Ash-pan doors and slides shall be securely closed by a
locking gear while the locomotive is in operation. Ash-pan dumping
gear shall be such that ash-pans can be dumped only be a person
standing on the ground. Air combustion tube openings and clean-out
opening from cinder trap in front of brick wall or arch shall be
adequately protected against the escape of fire to the roadway.
(7)  A device, with all necessary accessories, shall be
installed to provide an adequate supply of water to all hoppers
and ash-pans. Sufficient water to dampen ashes and extinguish fire
falling from the grates must be supplied from April 1 to October
31, both inclusive, in each year or during such additional period
as may be required in any particular territory by the chief
inspector.
Steam engine exhaust
107
All steam engines, portable or stationary, having exhaust in stack
and burning coal shall be equipped with a wire netting in the
smoke box, in accordance with standards prescribed in section 105
or with a bonnet screen or double-crimped wire netting mesh device
on top of the smoke stack, as may be most practicable. All
openings between the bonnet netting and the stack must be fitted
so as to leave no opening larger than the mesh of the netting. The
condemning limit of said netting shall be as prescribed in section
105.
Oil burning locomotive standards
108
On every locomotive burning oil as fuel the following standards
shall be observed:
(a) in such territory as may be designated from time to time
by the chief inspector, the smoke box of every locomotive with
narrow type fire box shall have installed therein, so as to extend
completely over the aperture through which the smoke ascends, a
double-crimped wire netting mesh, not less than 4 by 4 per inch,
No. 12 B.W.G. The condemning limit of opening shall be 10.5/64
inch;
(b) linings of fire pan and fire box shall be maintained in
good order. Not less frequently than at each roundhouse
inspection, or prior to starting each trip, where there are
facilities, the fire box should be cleaned of any accumulation of
fallen brick and loose carbonaceous material;
(c) all joints in the fire pan and between the fire pan and
fire box sheets or foundation ring shall be maintained air tight;
(d) openings in fire pan shall be protected in such manner as
to prevent the escape of such matter likely to cause fire;
(e) burner shall be maintained in proper alignment and
adjustment, clean and free from leakage;
(f) sand for sanding flues shall be free from inflammable
matter.
Fire protective appliances
109
All fire protective appliances on locomotives and other portable
or stationary boilers shall at all times be maintained in good
order. No employee of the railway shall do, or in any way cause,
damage to the netting or other fire protective appliances on any
locomotives or other portable boiler in service.
Company examination of locomotives and other steam engines
110
The company shall provide adequate inspection at terminal or
divisional points where its locomotives, or other steam engines,
portable or stationary, are housed and repaired, and at other
points where equipment is in service, and cause
(a) an examination to be made at least once a week of all
fire protective appliances; providing that the ash-pan and hoppers
of every locomotive must be inspected prior to its starting on
each trip;
(b) a record to be kept of the weekly inspection, showing for
each such equipment the number, the date and hour of the day of
every inspection, defects disclosed by such inspection and all
repairs made to fire protective appliances. Such record to be kept
open for inspection by any authorized officer of the ministry;
(c) in case any of the said fire protective appliances are
found to be defective, the said equipment shall be removed from
service and shall not be returned to service until such defects
are remedied;
(d) the company shall make an independent thorough
examination of the fire protective devices of all its locomotives
or other steam engines, portable or stationary, which are in
service, at least once each month and a record of the conditions
disclosed shall be kept by the company and a return of such record
of inspection shall be submitted to the chief inspector on the
Locomotive Boiler Inspection and Report Forms.
Disposal of live coals, etc.
111
Fire, live coals or hot ashes shall not be deposited upon the
tracks or right of way, unless they are extinguished immediately
thereafter, except in pits provided for the purpose. On no account
shall ashes from passenger, boarding cars or cabooses, nor
clinkers from the fire box of locomotives, be thrown out on the
right of way while running. Burning or smouldering waste taken
from hot boxes shall be immediately extinguished. Care should be
taken in the handling of fuses and to avoid throwing them where
fire can be communicated.
Restriction on coal burning
112
Unless otherwise ordered, no company shall, between April 1 and
October 31, both inclusive, burn as fuel on its locomotive, or any
other steam engine, portable or stationary, any coal not
possessing good coking properties, the use of which with standard
front end spark arresting devices prescribed in sections 105 and
107 results in the emission of sparks from the stack to an extent
deemed by the inspector to be dangerous to the public interest,
unless such equipment is provided with special spark arresting
device approved by the ministry. Whether any particular coal
possesses good coking properties shall be determined by
certificate from the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum
Resources.
Operation near forest or woodland
113
The following provisions shall apply in respect of every engine
within the scope of clause (a) of subsection (1) of section 100 of
the
Forest Act
2
; that is to say every locomotive, traction engine, logging
engine, portable engine or stationary engine used or operated
during the close season in or within 1/2 mile from any forest or
woodland:
(a) there shall be kept at or on every engine six 10 quart
buckets, 6 shovels, 3 axes and 3 mattocks, all of which shall be
painted red, kept in good repair and used only in case of fire;
provided that in the case of a traction engine or portable engine,
while being used in a mobile capacity, it shall be sufficient
compliance with the provisions of this clause if one 10 quart
bucket, one shovel and either one axe or one mattock are so kept;
(b) in case the engine is operated by steam power, it shall
be equipped with a safe and efficient device for arresting sparks,
of a design approved in writing by the Forest Service, and there
shall be kept available at the engine at all times a sufficient
supply of water for fire fighting purposes, and the engine shall
be equipped with a pump capable of forcing water to a height of 50
feet above the pump and with not less than 200 feet of hose of not
less than 1 inch inside diameter, which pump and hose shall always
be kept ready for immediate use;
(c) in the case of an engine operated by steam power, other
than a locomotive, if the engine is under steam and the relative
humidity of the atmosphere in the vicinity of the engine is below
50%, the surface of the ground surrounding the engine for a
distance of not less than 200 feet in all directions therefrom
shall be continuously kept wet by the application of water by
means of a hose or other appliance to be provided and kept for the
purpose.
Internal Combustion Locomotive Rules
Interpretation
Definitions
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
"internal combustion locomotive"
means a locomotive which derives its motive power from internal
combustion engines transmitting power through the medium of
mechanical or electrical apparatus, and shall include the engine
or engines, mechanical or electrical transmission devices, motors,
wiring, electrical controllers and every part thereof, and all
apparatus and things attached to and connected therewith or used
with reference thereto;
"internal combustion locomotive engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating an internal
combustion locomotive;
"engineer's or motorman's helper"
means any person acting in the same category as a fireman,
assisting the engineer and taking signals from the left side of
the cab.
"qualified employee"
means, in respect of a specified duty, an employee who, because of
his or her knowledge, training and experience, is qualified to
perform that duty safely and properly;
Extent and Application of Rules and Regulations
Application of rules and regulations
114
These rules and regulations shall apply to all railways operating
under the jurisdiction of the Government of British Columbia.
Railway responsibilities
115
(1)  Railway companies shall ensure the safe construction,
maintenance, inspection and repair of all locomotives.
(2)  All parts, appurtenances and control apparatus of all
locomotives must be maintained in accordance with these
regulations.
(3)  All inspections, tests and repairs must be made and
reports filed as specified in these regulations.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
General inspection requirements
116
Before an altered or newly acquired locomotive is placed in
service it must be inspected by an inspecting engineer who may
refuse to allow the locomotive into service if it does not conform
to the requirements of these regulations.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Exemption
117
Locomotives from railways not operating under the jurisdiction of
the government may be used on railways operating under the
jurisdiction of the government for a period not exceeding 48 hours
providing they have displayed in the cab a valid inspection form
in compliance with FRA Form No. 1, Transport Canada Form 310006 or
a temporary permit issued by an inspecting engineer.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Duty of locomotive engineers respecting defects
118
(1)  Each locomotive engineer shall forthwith inform an
inspecting engineer of any defect the locomotive engineer believes
exists in the locomotive under the locomotive engineer's charge.
(2)  It shall be a condition of the certificate of competence
of a locomotive engineer that the locomotive engineer comply with
subsection (1).
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Periodic inspection and repair report
119
(1)  Periodic inspection and repair reports shall be
completed by a railway company at intervals not exceeding those
specified by the chief inspecting engineer.
(2)  Periodic inspection and repair reports in Form 1A shall
be properly completed, displayed and filed for all locomotives
operated by the railway company as follows:
(a) a copy is to be displayed, under a transparent cover, in
a visible location, in each locomotive cab;
(b) a copy is to be retained on file by the company.
(3)  The periodic inspection and repair report form referred
to in subsection (2) need not be used, providing an alternate Form
1A has been accepted for use by the chief inspecting engineer.
(4)  No person shall operate a locomotive that does not have
a valid Periodic Inspection and Repair Report posted in the cab
except where the locomotive is operated at repair facilities for
the purpose of maintenance or inspection of that locomotive.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Acceptance
120
(1)  No railway company shall place in service or operate a
newly acquired or altered locomotive without first obtaining
acceptance for the locomotive specifications from the chief
inspecting engineer.
(2)  A railway company shall submit with each application for
acceptance under subsection (1)
(a) 2 copies of the design and specifications of the
locomotive, and
(b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
(3)  Where locomotives are not constructed or altered by a
locomotive manufacturer, the design and specifications must, prior
to submission, be approved by a professional engineer, as defined
in the
Engineers Act
3
.
(4)  The chief inspecting engineer shall refuse acceptance
under subsection (1) if one or more of the following provisions is
contravened:
(a) the locomotive must conform to these regulations;
(b) the locomotive must conform with B.C. Reg. 455/59, the
Railway Safety Appliance Standard Regulation;
(c) each pressure part and appurtenance on the locomotive
must comply with B.C. Reg. 45/91, the Boiler Code.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
Bells, whistles and horns
121
(1)  Each locomotive or other motive power unit used for
hauling or switching cars shall be equipped and maintained with a
bell and a whistle or horn in accordance with this section.
(2)  Locomotives rated 300 horsepower or more, except "B"
type units (operated regularly or temporarily in road service),
shall be equipped with a horn or other suitable audible warning
device that will produce, in advance of the locomotive in the
direction of travel, a minimum sound level of 96 db A at any
location on an arc of 100 feet radius subtended at the front of
the locomotive by angles 45 degrees to the left and to the right
of the centerline of the track in the direction of travel.
(3)  The audible warning device shall be tuned in chords of
not less than three harmonious tones and shall produce a
multidirectional sound suitable for the effective sounding of
whistle signals in accordance with applicable Operating Rules.
(4)  The control of the audible warning device shall be
located to allow for convenient operation from the locomotive
engineer's normal position in the cab.
(5)  Measurement of the sound levels shall be made in the
following manner:
(a) the sound level meter used shall conform to the
requirements of the American National Standards Institute Standard
ANSI SI. 4-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, dated
February 17, 1983;
(b) the locomotive shall be on level tangent track with
throttle in idle position;
(c) there shall be no sound reflecting objects within 100
feet of the sound source or measurement positions;
(d) weather conditions shall be free of any precipitation or
wind gusts and maximum wind velocity shall not exceed 12 miles per
hour;
(e) the microphone of the sound level metre shall be
positioned 4 feet above ground level and 100 feet distant from the
front coupler face;
(f) the acceptable sound level shall be measured and obtained
at 3 positions, at the centerline of the track and at the 2
extremities of the arc described in subsection (2);
(g) measurements shall be made at both front and rear of
locomotives capable of bidirectional operation;
(h) a 4 db A measurement tolerance is allowable for a given
measurement.
(6)  Locomotives assigned to yard service shall be equipped
with a horn capable of effectively sounding whistle signals in
accordance with applicable Operating Rules.
(7)  Specifications of any locomotive whistle or horn
intended for use in road or yard service shall be submitted to the
chief inspecting engineer for acceptance.
(8)  Each "B" type locomotive shall be equipped with a
whistle or other equivalent audible warning device suitable for
use when making independent self-propelled movements.
(9)  Locomotives shall be equipped with a bell of at least 30
pounds, equipped with a power means for ringing from the
operator's position in the cab.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Visibility
122
The position of the operator in a locomotive must be so arranged
as to provide a clear view of the tracks and signals.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Doors
123
(1)  Each locomotive shall have at least 2 cab doors exiting
directly to the outside of the locomotive.
(2)  Where no platform exists outside of exterior doors, the
doors shall swing into the cab or car body of the locomotive and
other doors shall swing out from the cab onto a platform.
(3)  Doors shall be securely hung on hinges clear of seats,
fittings, obstructions and control devices and shall have a secure
fastener to hold the door closed.
(4)  Sliding doors are not permitted.
(5)  Doors leading to the cab shall be fitted with a
securement device for holding in both open and closed positions.
(6)  Suitable steps and handrails shall be provided where the
height of the door sill exceeds 14 inches above either floor.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Axle and wheel acceptance
124
Before placing a locomotive in operation or service, a railway
company shall submit to the chief inspecting engineer
specifications for axle loading, axle spacing, wheel diameter and
maximum degree of track curvature on which the locomotive can
safely operate.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Wheels
125
(1)  A standard gauge locomotive shall have A.A.R. Profile
Wheels or, as an alternative, Heumann Profile Wheels, as shown in
Figure 15.
(2)  Narrow-gauge locomotives shall have wheel profiles
acceptable to the chief inspecting engineer.
(3)  Wheels and axles that have been previously used on
another locomotive or on the locomotive before alteration shall
meet the requirements of section 131.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 1.]
Repealed
126-128
[B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
Inspection of Locomotives
Inspection of locomotives
129
(1)  Inspecting engineers may, at any reasonable hour,
examine locomotives and order repairs to be made to any locomotive
found defective under any regulation under the
Railway Act
.
(1.1)  An inspecting engineer may order out of service any
locomotive that, for any cause, the inspecting engineer considers
unfit or dangerous to operate.
(2)  Every locomotive shall be inspected after each trip, or
day's work, and any serious defects found shall be repaired before
the locomotive is returned to service.
(3)  It must be known before each trip that the brakes on
locomotives are in safe and suitable condition for service, that
the air compressor or compressors are in condition to provide an
ample supply of air for the service in which the locomotive is
used, and that all other devices for controlling or regulating the
pressure are properly maintained.
(4)  Every main reservoir, before being put into service and
at least once after 12 calendar months service, provided such
service is performed within 2 consecutive years, shall be
subjected to hydrostatic pressure not less than 25% above the
maximum air pressure. The entire surface of the reservoir shall be
hammer-tested each time the locomotive is shopped for general
repairs, but not less frequently than once after 18 calendar
months service, provided such service is performed within 2
consecutive years.
(5)  Draught-gear and attachments on locomotives shall be
securely fastened and maintained in safe and suitable condition
for service.
(6)  The total lateral motion or play between the hubs of the
wheels and the boxes on any pair of wheels shall not exceed 1
inch.
[am. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 2.]
Locomotive Lights
Locomotive lights
130
(1)  Each locomotive used in road service between sunset and
sunrise shall have a headlight which will enable persons with
normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal weather
conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a distance
of 800 feet or more ahead of the locomotive, and such headlights
must be maintained in good condition.
(2)  Locomotives used in road service which are regularly
required to run backward for any portion of their trip, except to
pick up a detached portion of their train or in making terminal
movements, shall have on the rear a headlight which will meet the
foregoing requirements.
(3)  Nothing in the foregoing rules shall prevent the use of
a device whereby the light may be diminished in yards and at
stations to an extent that will enable the person or persons
operating the locomotive to see a dark object the size of a man
for a distance of 300 feet or more ahead of the locomotive under
the same conditions as set forth above.
(4)  When 2 or more locomotives are used in the same train,
the leading locomotive only will be required to display a head
light.
(5)  Each locomotive used in road service shall be provided
with such classification lamps as may be required by the rules of
the company operating the locomotive. When such classification
lamps are provided, they shall be kept clean and maintained in
safe and suitable condition for service.
(6)  Each locomotive used in yard service between sunset and
sunrise shall have 2 head lights, one located on the front of the
locomotive and one on the rear, each of which will enable persons
with normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal
weather conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a
distance of 300 feet or more, and such head lights must be
maintained in good condition.
(7)  Each locomotive used between sunset and sunrise shall
have cab lamps which will provide sufficient illumination for the
air and other gauges to enable the enginemen to make necessary and
accurate readings from their usual and proper positions in the
cab. These lights shall be so located and constructed that the
light will shine only on those parts requiring illumination.
Locomotives used in road service shall have an additional lamp
conveniently located to enable the person operating the locomotive
to easily and accurately read train orders and time-tables and so
constructed that it may be readily darkened or extinguished.
Locomotive Rules
Prescribed specifications
131
Locomotives which are defective or do not comply with
specification as prescribed in the following list must not be
allowed to leave terminals, or be used at terminals, in traffic
service:
(a) internal combustion engine or engines not running
properly, knocking, emitting fumes or otherwise out of order;
(b) air brakes on locomotives or tenders not in serviceable
condition;
(c) (i)wheels shall be securely pressed on axles.
Prick-punching or shimming the wheel fit will not be permitted.
The diameter of wheels on the same axles shall not vary more than
3/32 inch;
(ii)  wheels used on standard gauge track will be out of
gauge if the inside gauge of flanges, measured on baseline, is
less than 53 inches or more than 53 3/8 inches;
(iii)  the distance back to back of flanges of wheels mounted
on the same axle shall not vary more than 1/4 inch;
(d) cast-iron or cast-steel wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  when the flat spot is 2 1/2 inches or over in length, or
if there are 2 or more adjoining spots each 2 inches or over in
length;
(ii)  if the chip exceeds 1 1/2 inches in length and 1/2 inch
in width;
(iii)  if the tread, measured from the flange at a point 5/8
inch above the tread is less than 3 3/4 inches in width;
(iv)  wheels and defective treads on account of cracks or
shelled out spots 2 1/2 inches or over, or so numerous as to
endanger the safety of the wheel;
(v)  wheels having defective tread on account of cracks or
shelling out due to heating;
(vi)  seams 1/2 inch long or over, at a distance of 1/2 inch
or less from the throat of the flange, or seams 3 inches or more
in length, if such seams are within the limits of 3 3/4 inches
from the flange, measured at a point 5/8 inch from the tread;
(vii)  wheels on axles with journals 5 inches by 9 inches or
over with flanges having flat vertical surfaces extending 7/8
inches or more from the tread, or flanges 1 inch thick or less
gauged at a point 3/8 inch above tread. Wheels on axles with
journals less than 5 inches by 9 inches with flanges having flat
vertical surfaces extending 1 inch or more from the tread, or
flanges 15/16 inch thick or less, gauged at a point 3/8 inch above
the tread;
(viii)  if the tread is worn sufficiently hollow to render
the flange or rim liable to breakage;
(ix)  if the wheel is cracked from the wheel fit outward;
(x)  cracked tread, cracked plate or one or more cracked
brackets;
(xi)  wheels out of gauge;
(xii)  wheels loose on axle.
NOTE: The determination of flat spots, worn flanges and broken
rims shall be made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8, and its
application to defective wheels as shown in Figs. 9, 10, 11, 12
and 13;
(e) forged steel or steel tired wheels with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective retaining rings
or tires; broken or cracked hubs, plates, spokes or bolts;
(ii)  slid-flat spot 2 1/2 inches or longer; or, if there are
2 or more adjoining spots, each 2 inches or longer;
(iii)  defective tread on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or longer, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;
(iv)  broken flange;
(v)  flange worn to 15/16 inch or less in thickness, gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having flat vertical
surface 1 inch or more from the tread; tread worn 5/16 inch;
flange more than 1 1/2 inches from tread to top of flange;
(f) driving and trailing wheel centres with divided rims
shall be properly fitted with iron or steel filling blocks before
the tires are applied, and such filling blocks shall be properly
maintained. When shims are inserted between the tire and the wheel
centre, not more than 2 thicknesses of shims may be used, one of
which must extend entirely around the wheel;
(g) driving wheel counterbalance shall be maintained in a
safe and suitable condition for service;
(h) driving and trailing wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  driving or trailing wheel centres with one or more
spokes in wheel broken;
(ii)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective tires or tire
fastenings; broken or cracked hubs or wheels out of gauge;
(i)
(i)  the minimum height of flange for driving or trailing
wheel tires, measured from tread, shall be 1 inch for locomotives
used in road service, except that on locomotives where
construction will not permit the full height of flange on all
drivers, the minimum height of flange on one pair of driving
wheels may be 5/8 inch;
(ii)  the minimum height of flange for driving wheel tires,
measured from tread, shall be 7/8 inch for locomotives used in
switching service;
(iii)  the maximum taper for tread of tires from throat of
flange to outside of tire, for driving and trailing wheels for
locomotives used in road service, shall be 1/4 inch, and for
locomotives used in switching service 5/16 inch;
(iv)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of standard gauge locomotives shall be 5 1/2 inches for
flanged tires and 6 inches for plain tires;
(v)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of narrow gauge locomotives shall be 5 inches for flanged
tires and 51/2 inches for plain tires;
(vi)  when all tires are turned, or new tires applied to
driving and trailing wheels, the diameter of the wheels on the
same axles, or in the same driving wheel base, shall not vary more
than 3/32 inch. When a single tire is applied the diameter must
not vary more than 3/32 inch from that of the opposite wheel on
the same axle. When a single pair of tires is applied the diameter
must be within 3/32 inch of the average diameter of the wheels in
the driving wheel base to which they are applied;
(vii)  driving and trailing wheel tires with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service: slid-flat
spot 2 1/2 inches or more in length; flange 15/16 inch or less in
thickness, gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the tread; or having
flat vertical surface 1 inch or more from the tread, tread worn
hollow 5/16 inch on locomotives used in road service, or 3/8 inch
on locomotives used in switching service; flange more than 1 1/2
inches from tread to top of flange.
NOTE: The determination of flat spots and worn flanges shall be
made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8 and its application to
defective tires as shown in Figs. 9, 10 and 11;
(j) locomotives with defective springs on any part of
locomotive which are unable to carry their respective weight when
locomotive is standing.
Ventilation and electrical apparatus
132
(1)  The exhaust gases from internal combustion engines shall
be piped to exhaust above the top of the locomotive and shall be
so arranged that exhaust fumes do not drift into the cab so they
may be breathed by the operator or the operator's helper.
(2)  Cabs of internal combustion locomotives shall be
properly ventilated. Precautions must be taken to see that no
exhaust or other obnoxious gases can enter or accumulate in the
cab.
(3)  Electrical apparatus must be properly installed and
insulated. All contactors, circuit-breakers and switches must be
enclosed in approved panel boxes properly bonded and grounded.
Accidents and Their Investigation
Accident investigation
133
(1)  In case of a failure of any appurtenance taking place in
any internal combustion locomotive for which the owner or lessee
thereof has not obtained a certificate of inspection, or if the
certificate of inspection has expired, and any person be killed or
injured thereby, or any property be destroyed or damaged, the
owner or lessee of such locomotive or other power shall prima
facie be deemed guilty of negligence and liable for any injury
occasioned by such failure, and the onus shall be on the owner or
lessee of such locomotive or other power to show that all
reasonable and proper precautions had been taken to prevent such
failure or accident.
(2)  In the case of an accident resulting from failure, from
any cause, of an internal combustion locomotive's power appliances
or pressure appurtenances resulting in serious injury or death to
one or more persons, the company owning or operating such
locomotive shall immediately transmit by wire to the chief
inspector, at his office in Vancouver, B.C., report of such
accident, stating the nature of the accident, the place at which
it occurred and where the locomotive may be inspected. Such wire
shall immediately be confirmed by mail, giving a full detailed
report of such accident, stating, so far as may be known, the
causes, and giving a complete list of the killed or injured.
(3)  On the occurrence of an accident to any internal
combustion locomotive or other equipment, the engineer in charge
shall report such accident in writing to the chief inspector, or,
in default, the inspector may cancel his certificate.
(4)  The chief inspector may hold an investigation with
respect to any accident to any part of a locomotive or other
equipment to which these rules apply, and with respect to any
injury caused to any person or property by the alleged negligence
or incompetence of an engineer holding a certificate; and he may
summon witnesses and compel their attendance before him by the
same process as Courts of Justice, and may administer oaths and
examine witnesses touching the cause of such accident, and he
shall forthwith report in writing thereon to the minister.
(5)  An appeal shall lie from any ruling or decision of an
inspector to the chief inspector, and from him to the minister,
whose decision shall be final.
(6)  In any appeal the minister, if he thinks fit, may summon
to his assistance any expert engineer who shall attend and assist
accordingly.
(7)  Any charge or neglect of duty or other complaint against
an inspector shall be made in writing to the minister stating the
specific charge or charges.
(8)  Every railway company violating any of the provisions of
these rules shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding $300 for
each and every such violation.
Internal Combustion Locomotive Engineers' Certificates of Competency
Certificate requirement
134
Except as otherwise provided, no person shall be employed as
engineer, and no person shall act as engineer on any locomotive
operating under these rules, unless the person holds a certificate
of competency, or a temporary certificate, granted by the
minister; provided, however, that in case of illness or other
unavoidable cause the engineer in charge is absent from duty,
without fault or collusion of the owners or of any person
interested, and an engineer holding such certificate is not
available, then such deficiency may be filled temporarily until an
engineer holding such certificate can be obtained, and the chief
inspector shall be immediately notified of the temporary change by
the owner of the locomotive and by the person acting temporarily
as engineer.
Application for examination
135
Candidates for examination must fill out a form of application
which can be obtained from the chief inspector, and when properly
filled in should be returned to him, together with the applicable
fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (i); 2/99, App. 2, s. 4.]
Testimonials required
136
All candidates must produce testimonials as to service as
engineer's or motorman's helpers, such testimonials to be signed
by their employers. Candidates must have at least 18 months
service as engineers on steam locomotives, or 18 months service as
engineers on electric or internal combustion locomotives over 300
horsepower, or 18 months service as motorman's helper on internal
combustion locomotives over 300 horsepower, or be the holder of a
certificate of competency as a steam locomotive engineer granted
by the minister. Candidates must enclose with their application
for examination a certificate from some qualified physician
certifying as to the condition of their eyesight and hearing as
required by Part VI, Regulations Respecting Visual Acuity and
Hearing of Railway Employees.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Railway company examinations
137
Railway companies having mechanical and operating rules approved
by the ministry must examine their employees as to their general
mechanical ability and knowledge of such rules before giving them
employment or promotion as engineers on internal combustion
locomotives. They must also notify the chief inspector at least
one month before such examinations take place in order that an
inspector appointed by the ministry may be in attendance.
Candidates applying for unrestricted industrial certification
under this rule may be certified but will be required to pay the
necessary fee as set forth in section 135 of this Part and to
write an examination in the office of the chief inspector.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/65, s. (a).]
Term of certificate
138
Every certificate, unless stated therein, shall be granted for
life or during good conduct, but if it be proven to the ministry
that the holder is guilty of negligence or has refused to comply
with any of the provisions of these rules, his certificate may be
suspended, marked or revoked.
Certificate replacement
139
If an engineer proves to the satisfaction of the chief inspector
that he has lost his certificate, or that it has been destroyed,
he may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment of the
applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (j); 2/99, App. 2, s. 5.]
Temporary certificate
140
Upon application in writing by the company, the chief inspector
may issue a temporary certificate to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as engineer on the locomotive specified; such
certificate to be good only for one month from date of issue.
Permit holders
141
Holders of "Permits to Operate Power Cars", granted by the
minister, may be employed and may act as engineers on internal
combustion locomotives, the rated horsepower of which does not
exceed 300, provided that the chief inspector is satisfied that
the holder of such permit is capable of fulfilling the duties of
engineer on a locomotive of that horsepower.
Engine and Train Crew
Engine and train crew
142
(1)  An internal combustion locomotive, while operating in
any service, must have a certified locomotive engineer in the cab.
(2)  When travelling between stations, all trains except rail
diesel cars must have a second person located in the operating
cab.
(3)  An internal combustion locomotive, while engaged in
hauling, switching or moving cars, must be assigned a certified
conductor.
(4)  Unless otherwise authorized by the chief inspecting
engineer, crews assigned to switching operations on BC Rail and
Southern Railway of British Columbia must have, in addition to a
locomotive engineer and a conductor, a minimum of one additional
crew member.
(5)  Additional crew members may be ordered by the chief
inspecting engineer if, in his opinion, they are required to
assist the locomotive engineer or conductor or both.
(6)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), a qualified employee is
permitted to move equipment on designated shop tracks for the
purpose of servicing and maintenance.
(7)  Narrow gauge railways may be exempt from the
requirements of subsection (2) if, in the opinion of the chief
inspecting engineer, the requirement is impracticable and should
not apply, in which case special rulings shall apply.
[en. B.C. Reg. 75/95, s. 2.]
Some Obligations and Penalties
Penalty for defective work
143
Any person who constructs an unfired pressure vessel, or any part
of an unfired pressure vessel, or who makes any repairs to same,
such construction or repairs being known to be defective, shall be
liable to a penalty of not less than $100 and not exceeding $300.
Penalty for operation without valid certificate of inspection
144
Any person operating an internal combustion locomotive, as well as
the owner or lessee thereof in case the same is being operated
with his consent without there being an unexpired certificate of
inspection thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $5 a day for
each and every day that he shall operate such uncertificated
internal combustion locomotive, except in such cases where the
owner has made a request in writing to an inspector to have such
internal combustion locomotive examined, but for good and valid
reasons such inspection has not been made.
Penalty for operation of unsafe internal combustion locomotive
145.1
It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any
internal combustion locomotive pronounced by the inspector as
unsafe to cease to use the same until such repairs as are
indicated by the inspector are made, and in case of failure to
comply with the requirements of the inspector, the person owning
or leasing, as well as the person operating, any such internal
combustion locomotive shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than $100 and shall also be liable for any damage to person or
property resulting therefrom.
Fire Prevention Regulations
Spark arrest
145.2
Unless otherwise exempted by a special order of the ministry,
every company whose railway is under construction or being
operated shall cause all internal combustion locomotives to be
fitted and kept fitted in good order with practical and efficient
devices for arresting the escape of sparks from exhaust stacks.
Fire extinguishers
145.3
Every internal combustion locomotive shall be equipped with at
least one fire extinguisher. Such fire extinguisher shall be of
the type not to cause shorts or damage to the electrical
apparatus, it shall bear a card showing its last filling and be
placed in a conspicuous place in the cab within easy reach of the
engineer.
Electric Locomotive Rules
Interpretation
Definitions
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
"electric locomotive"
or
"locomotive"
means a locomotive which derives its motive power from electric
motors receiving current from a source apart from the locomotive
itself, the electrical energy being conducted to the locomotive by
means of overhead or underground trolley wires, and shall include
the motors, wiring, electrical controllers and every part thereof
and all apparatus and things attached to and connected therewith
or used with reference thereto (but shall not include
self-propelled electric street cars, interurban passenger cars,
baggage cars, line cars, snowploughs, wrecking or derrick cars);
"motorman"
means any person having charge of or operating an electric
locomotive;
"motorman's helper or trolleyman"
means any person whose duty it is to assist the motorman and take
signals for transmission to the motorman.
Extent and Application of Rules and Regulations
Application of rules and regulations
146
These rules and regulations shall apply to all electric
locomotives operating on railways under the jurisdiction of the
Government of British Columbia.
Railway company responsibility
147
(1)  Every railway company will be held responsible for the
general condition of all electric locomotives under its control.
The mechanical officer in charge at each point where repairs are
done will be held responsible for the inspection and repair of all
electric locomotives and appurtenances under his jurisdiction. He
must know that all defects disclosed by any inspection are
properly repaired before the locomotive is returned to service.
(2)  The safe working pressure of all pressure parts shall be
fixed by the chief inspector of the ministry after full
consideration has been given to design, workmanship, age and
condition of the parts concerned.
Portions of Boiler Code applicable
148
That portion of the regulations known as Part III of the "British
Columbia Railway Department Boiler Code", adopted by order in
council under the
Railway Act
on the 21st day of January, 1947, shall govern the design,
registration and construction of all pressure parts used on
electric locomotives.
[ed. note: Boiler Code = that adopted by B.C. Reg. 45/91]
General Inspection Rules
Inspection requirements
149
A railway company shall comply with sections 116 and 119 in
respect of a locomotive.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 3.]
Reporting of defects
150
It is the duty of every locomotive motorman to report to his
employer any defects known or believed to exist in the locomotive
under his charge.
Approval
Approval for installation or operation of new electric locomotive
151
No company shall install or operate any new electric locomotive
without first obtaining approval from the chief inspector. Every
company shall submit, with each application for approval, designs
and specifications of said locomotive.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (k); 2/99, App. 2, s. 6.]
Approval for operation of electric locomotive
152
No company shall install or operate any electric locomotive
without first applying to the chief inspector for, and obtaining
from him, his approval for such electric locomotive.
Requirements for approval
153
The chief inspector shall not grant his approval pursuant to
sections 151 and 152 unless there is compliance with the following
provisions:
(a) the locomotive must comply with the ministry's safety
appliance standards as set forth in Part IV of the rules and
regulations made pursuant to the
Railway Act
;
(b) the locomotive shall comply with the electric locomotive
rules and regulations made pursuant to the
Railway Act
as herein set forth;
(c) all pressure parts and appurtenances used on the
locomotive shall comply with Part III of the "British Columbia
Railway Department Boiler Code";
(d) the position of the motorman must be arranged so that he
can have a clear view of the tracks or see signals;
(e) in addition to air-brakes every electric locomotive must
have an efficient hand-brake.
[ed. note: Boiler Code = that adopted by B.C. Reg. 45/91]
Certificates
Compliance with sections 121 to 125
154
Sections 121 to 125 apply to an electric locomotive.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 4.]
Power collector system
155
A company shall provide manufacturer's specifications for the
power collector system, including contact shoe pressure, limits of
contact shoe travel and limits of locomotive sway.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 4.]
Repealed
156-157
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 4.]
Fees
Repealed
158-160
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 2, s. 2.]
Inspection of Locomotives
Inspection of locomotives
161
(1)  Inspecting engineers may, at any reasonable hour,
examine locomotives and order repairs to be made to any locomotive
found defective under any regulation under the
Railway Act
.
(1.1)  An inspecting engineer may order out of service any
locomotive that, for any cause, the inspecting engineer considers
unfit or dangerous to operate.
(2)  Every locomotive shall be inspected after each round
trip or day's work, and any serious defects found shall be
repaired before the locomotive is returned to service.
(3)  It must be known before each trip that the brakes on
locomotives are in safe and suitable condition for service, that
the air compressor or compressors are in condition to provide an
ample supply of air for the service in which the locomotive is
used and that all other devices for controlling or regulating the
pressure are properly maintained.
(4)  Every main reservoir, before being put into service and
at least once after 12 calendar months service, provided such
service is performed within 2 consecutive years, shall be
subjected to hydrostatic pressure not less than 25% above the
maximum air-pressure. The entire surface of the reservoir shall be
hammer-tested each time the locomotive is shopped for general
repairs, but not less frequently than once after 18 calendar
months service provided such service is performed within 2
consecutive years.
(5)  Draft gear and attachments on locomotives shall be
securely fastened and maintained in safe and suitable condition
for service.
(6)  The total lateral motion or play between the hubs of the
wheels and the boxes on any pair of wheels shall not exceed one
inch.
[am. B.C. Reg. 111/91, s. 5.]
Locomotive Lights
Locomotive lights
162
(1)  Each locomotive used in road service between sunset and
sunrise shall have a headlight which will enable persons with
normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal weather
conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a distance
of 800 feet or more ahead of the locomotive, and such headlights
must be maintained in good condition.
(2)  Locomotives used in road service which are regularly
required to run backward for any portion of their trip, except to
pick up a detached portion of their train or in making terminal
movements, shall have on the rear a headlight which will meet the
foregoing requirements.
(3)  Nothing in the foregoing rules shall prevent the use of
a device whereby the light may be diminished in yards and at
stations to an extent that will enable the person or persons
operating the locomotive to see a dark object the size of a man
for a distance of 300 feet or more ahead of the locomotive under
the same conditions as set forth above.
(4)  When 2 or more locomotives are used in the same train,
the leading locomotive only will be required to display a
headlight.
(5)  Each locomotive used in road service shall be provided
with such classification lamps as may be required by the rules of
the company operating the locomotive. When such classification
lamps are provided, they shall be kept clean and maintained in
safe and suitable condition for service.
(6)  Each locomotive used in yard service between sunset and
sunrise shall have 2 headlights, one located on the front of the
locomotive and one on the rear, each of which will enable persons
with normal vision in the cab of the locomotive, under normal
weather conditions, to see a dark object the size of a man for a
distance of 300 feet or more, and such headlights must be
maintained in good condition.
(7)  Each locomotive used between sunset and sunrise shall
have cab lamps which will provide sufficient illumination for the
air gauges to enable the motormen to make necessary and accurate
readings from their usual and proper positions in the cab. These
lights shall be so located and constructed that the light will
shine only on those parts requiring illumination. Locomotives used
in road service shall have an additional lamp conveniently located
to enable the person operating the locomotive to easily and
accurately read train orders and time tables and so constructed
that it may be readily darkened or extinguished.
Locomotive Rules
Prescribed specifications
163
Locomotives which are defective or do not comply with
specification as prescribed in the following list must not be
allowed to leave terminals, or be used at terminals, in traffic
service:
(a) air brakes on locomotives not in serviceable condition;
(b)
(i)  wheels shall be securely pressed on axles. Prick
punching or shimming the wheel fit will not be permitted. The
diameter of wheels on the same axle shall not vary more than 3/32
inch;
(ii)  wheels used on standard gauge track will be out of
gauge if the inside gauge of flanges, measured on base line, is
less than 53 inches or more than 53 3/8 inches;
(iii)  the distance back to back of flanges of wheels mounted
on the same axle shall not vary more than 1/4 inch;
(c) cast iron or cast steel wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be contained in service:
(i)  when the flat spot is 2 1/2 inches or over in length, or
if there are 2 or more adjoining spots each 2 inches or over in
length;
(ii)  if the chip exceeds 1 1/2 inches in length and 1/2 inch
in width;
(iii)  if the tread, measured from the flange at a point 5/8
inch above the tread, is less than 3 3/4 inches in width;
(iv)  wheels with defective treads on account of cracks or
shelled out spots 2 1/2 inches or over, or so numerous as to
endanger the safety of the wheel;
(v)  wheels having defective tread on account of cracks or
shelling out due to heating;
(vi)  seams 1/2 inch long or over, at a distance of 1/2 inch
or less from the throat of the flange, or seams 3 inches or more
in length, if such seams are within the limits of 3 3/4 inches
from the flange, measured at a point 5/8 inch from the tread;
(vii)  wheels on axles with journals 5 inches by 9 inches or
over with flanges having flat vertical surface extending 7/8 inch
or more from the tread, or flanges one inch thick or less gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above tread. Wheels on axles with journals
less than 5 inches by 9 inches with flanges having flat vertical
surfaces extending one inch or more from the tread, or flanges
15/16 inch thick or less, gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the
tread;
(viii)  if the tread is worn sufficiently hollow to render
the flange or rim liable to breakage;
(ix)  if the wheel is cracked from the wheel fit outward;
(x)  cracked tread, cracked plate or one or more cracked
brackets;
(xi)  wheels out of gauge;
(xii)  wheels loose on axle;
NOTE: The determination of flat spots, worn flanges and broken
rims shall be made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8, and its
application to defective wheels as shown in Figs. 9, 10, 11, 12
and 13;
(d) forged steel or steel tired wheels with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective retaining rings
or tires; broken or cracked hubs, plates, spokes or bolts;
(ii)  slid flat spot 2 1/2 inches or longer; or, if there are
2 or more adjoining spots, each 2 inches or longer;
(iii)  defective tread on account of cracks or shelled out
spots 2 1/2 inches or longer, or so numerous as to endanger the
safety of the wheel;
(iv)  broken flange;
(v)  flange worn to 15/16 inch or less in thickness, gauged
at a point 3/8 inch above the tread, or having flat vertical
surface one inch or more from the tread; tread worn 5/16 inch;
flange more than 1 1/2 inches from the tread to top of flange, or
thickness of tires or rims less than 1 1/2 inches;
(vi)  wheels out of gauge;
(e) driving and trailing wheel centres with divided rims
shall be properly fitted with iron or steel filling blocks before
the tires are applied, and such filling blocks shall be properly
maintained. When shims are inserted between the tire and the wheel
centre, not more than 2 thicknesses of shims may be used, one of
which must extend entirely around the wheel;
(f) driving and trailing wheels with any of the following
defects shall not be continued in service:
(i)  driving or trailing wheel centres with one or more
spokes in wheel broken;
(ii)  loose wheels; loose, broken or defective tires or tire
fastenings; broken or cracked hubs, or wheels out of gauge;
(g)
(i)  the minimum height of flange for driving or trailing
wheel tires, measured from tread, shall be one inch for
locomotives used in road service, except that on locomotives where
construction will not permit the full height of flange on all
drivers, the minimum height of flange on one pair of driving
wheels may be 5/8 inch;
(ii)  the minimum height of flange for driving wheel tires,
measured from tread, shall be 7/8 inch for locomotives used in
switching service;
(iii)  the maximum taper for tread of tires from throat of
flange to outside of tire, for driving and trailing wheels for
locomotives used in road service, shall be 1/4 inch, and for
locomotives used in switching service 5/16 inch;
(iv)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of standard gauge locomotives shall be 5 1/2 inches for
flanged tires and 6 inches for plain tires;
(v)  the minimum width of tires for driving and trailing
wheels of narrow gauge locomotives shall be 5 inches for flanged
tires and 5 1/2 inches for plain tires;
(vi)  when all tires are turned, or new tires applied to
driving and trailing wheels, the diameter of the wheels on the
same axles, or in the same driving wheel base, shall not vary more
than 3/32 inch. When a single tire is applied the diameter must
not vary more than 3/32 inch from that of the opposite wheel on
the same axle. When a single pair of tires is applied the diameter
must be within 3/32 inch of the average diameter of the wheels in
the driving wheel base to which they are applied;
(vii)  driving and trailing wheel tires with any of the
following defects shall not be continued in service: slid-flat
spot 2 1/2 inches or more in length; flange 15/16 inch or less in
thickness, gauged at a point 3/8 inch above the tread; or having
flat vertical surface one inch or more from tread, tread worn
hollow 5/16 inch on locomotives used in road service, or 3/8 inch
on locomotives used in switching service; flange more than 1 1/2
inches from tread to top of flange;
NOTE: The determination of flat spots and worn flanges shall be
made by a gauge as shown in Fig. 8, and its application to
defective tires as shown in Figs. 9, 10 and 11;
(h) locomotives with defective springs on any part of
locomotive which are unable to carry their respective weight when
locomotive is standing;
(i) electrical apparatus must be properly installed and
insulated. All contactors, circuit breakers and switches must be
enclosed in approved panel boxes properly bonded and grounded;
(j) trolleys must be fitted with rope or other non-conductive
attachment for the lowering of same. Catch-hooks must be properly
installed to hold trolley poles and trolley gear must be regularly
inspected;
(k) railings or other protective guards shall be maintained
so trainmen cannot unknowingly come in contact with live trolley
poles;
(l) approved runways must be provided on roofs of locomotives
to gain access to trolley mechanism.
Accidents and Their Investigation
Accident investigation
164
(1)  In the case of an accident resulting from failure, from
any cause, of a locomotive's electrical appliances, or pressure
appurtenances, resulting in serious injury or death to one or more
persons, the company owning or operating such locomotive shall
immediately transmit by wire to the chief inspector, at his office
in Vancouver, B.C., report of such accident, stating the nature of
the accident, the place at which it occurred, and where the
locomotive may be inspected. Such wire shall immediately be
confirmed by mail, giving a full detailed report of such accident,
stating, so far as may be known, the causes, and giving a complete
list of the killed or injured.
(2)  The chief inspector may hold an investigation with
respect to any accident to any part of a locomotive or other
equipment to which these rules apply, and with respect to any
injury caused to any person or property by the alleged negligence
or incompetence of a motorman holding a certificate; and he may
summon witnesses and compel their attendance before him by the
same process as Courts of Justice, and may administer oaths and
examine witnesses touching the cause of such accident, and he
shall forthwith report in writing thereon to the minister.
(3)  An appeal shall lie from any ruling or decision of an
inspector to the chief inspector, and from him to the minister,
whose decision shall be final.
(4)  In any appeal the minister, if he thinks fit, may summon
to his assistance any expert engineer, who shall attend and assist
accordingly.
(5)  Any charge of neglect of duty or other complaint against
an inspector shall be made in writing to the minister, stating the
specific charge or charges.
(6)  Every railway company violating any of the provisions of
these rules shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding $300 for
each and every such violation.
(7)  All reports made pursuant to subsections (1) and (2) of
this section, whether written or telegraphed, shall be privileged
from production in any court unless with the consent of the
minister.
Electric Locomotive Motormen's Certificate of Competency
Certificate requirement
165
Except as otherwise provided under section 168 of this Part, no
person shall be employed as motorman and no person shall act as
motorman on any electric locomotive operating under these rules
unless the person holds a certificate of competency, or a
temporary certificate, granted by the minister; provided, however,
that in case of illness or other unavoidable cause the motorman in
charge is absent from duty, without fault or collusion of the
owners or of any person interested, and a motorman holding such
certificate is not available, then such deficiency may be filled
temporarily until a motorman holding such certificate can be
obtained, and the chief inspector shall be immediately notified of
the temporary change by the owner of the locomotive and by the
person acting temporarily as motorman.
Application for examination
166
Candidates for examination for certificates of competency as
motormen must fill out a form of application which can be obtained
from the chief inspector, and when properly filled in should be
returned to him, together with the applicable fee prescribed in
the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2, (i); 2/99, App. 2, s. 4.]
Testimonials required
167
All candidates must produce testimonials as to service as
engineers, firemen, motormen or motormen's helpers, such
testimonials to be signed by their employers. Candidates must have
at least 18 months service as engineers, firemen, motormen or
motormen's helpers on locomotives, and must enclose with their
application for examination a certificate from some qualified
physician certifying to the condition of their eyesight and
hearing, as required by the Rules of Visual Acuity and Hearing.
Railway company examinations
168
Railway companies having mechanical operating rules approved by
the ministry must examine their employees as to their general
mechanical ability and knowledge of such rules before giving them
employment or promotion as motormen on electric locomotives. They
must also notify the chief inspector before such examinations take
place in order that an inspector appointed by the ministry may be
in attendance, in which case employees passing such an examination
satisfactory to the inspector, shall not be required to be the
holders of certificates of competency as motormen granted by the
minister, but shall have their names and identifications recorded
in the chief inspector's office.
Certificate replacement
169
If a motorman proves to the satisfaction of the chief inspector
that he has lost his certificate, or that it has been destroyed,
he may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment of the
applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 2 (j); 2/99, App. 2, s. 5.]
Temporary certificate
170
Upon application in writing by the company, the chief inspector
may issue a temporary certificate to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as motorman on the locomotive specified; such
certificate to be good only for one month from date of issue.
Locomotive and Train Crew
Locomotive and train crew
171
Section 142 applies to an electric locomotive as though the
electric locomotive was an internal combustion locomotive.
[en. B.C. Reg. 75/95, s. 3.]
Some Obligations and Penalties
Penalty for defective work
172
Any person who constructs a pressure vessel, or any part of a
pressure vessel, or who makes any repairs to same, such
construction or repairs being known to be defective, shall be
liable to a penalty of not less than $100 and not exceeding $300.
Penalty for operation without valid certificate of inspection
173
Any person operating an electric locomotive, as well as the owner
or lessee thereof, in case the same is being operated with his
consent, without there being an unexpired certificate of
inspection thereof, shall be liable to a penalty of $5 a day for
each and every day that he shall operate such uncertified electric
locomotive, except in such cases where the owner has made a
request in writing to an inspector to have such electric
locomotive examined, but for good and valid reasons such
inspection has not been made.
Penalty for operation of unsafe electric locomotive
174
It shall be the duty of any person operating or owning any
electric locomotive pronounced by the inspector as unsafe to cease
to use the same until such repairs as are indicated by the
inspector are made, and in case of failure to comply with the
requirements of the inspector, the person owning or leasing, as
well as the person operating, any such electric locomotive shall
be liable to a penalty of not less than $100.
Fire Prevention Regulations
Fire extinguishers
175
Every electric locomotive shall be equipped with at least one fire
extinguisher. Such fire extinguisher shall be of the type not to
cause shorts or damage to the electrical apparatus, it shall bear
a card showing its last filling and be within easy reach of the
motorman.
Boiler Form No. 1
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Copy to Be Submitted to the Chief Inspector,
Ministry of Transportation and Highways
Month of ........................
Year ......
Type of locomotive ....................................
{No.
{D.R. No.
Operated
by..............................................................................................................
COMPANY.
In accordance with the requirements of the rules and regulations
made pursuant to the British Columbia
Railway Act
, I certify that on .........................................[
date
] at .................................., I inspected the boiler of
Locomotive No. ............., and the appurtenances thereof; that
all defects disclosed by said inspection have been repaired except
as noted on the back of this report; that to the best of my
knowledge and belief said boiler and appurtenances are in proper
condition for use and safe to operate with a steam pressure of
.................. pounds per square inch.
1.
Is steam gauge reliable?
14.
Were leaks from boiler repaired?
2.
Safety valves are set to pop at
................ lb. .............. lb.
15.
No. of stay-bolts broken ....................;
No. renewed ........................
3.
Are both injectors in good condition?
16.
Condition of fire box sheets
.......................................................................
4.
Is blow-off cock in working order?
17.
Was crown sheet examined with torch?
5.
Were steam leaks from all
appliances repaired?
18.
Condition of flues
.......................................................................
6.
Condition of air brake equipment
.......................................................................
19.
Was fusible plug cleaned?
7.
Condition of draw gear between engine and
tender
............................................................
20.
Condition of smoke stack; spark arrester
.......................................................................
8.
Condition of draught gear on front and rear
ends
...............................................................
21.
Condition of ash-pan, dampers and netting
.......................................................................
9.
Condition of driving and running gear
.......................................................................
22.
Is fire pump and hose in good condition?
10.
Was boiler washed out?
23.
Condition of tender
.......................................................................
11.
Water glass and gauge cock spindles
cleaned out?
24.
Is valid annual certificate on display in cab?
12.
Were all washout plugs removed?
25.
Date of last hydrostatic test by certificate,
...............................[
date
]
13.
Condition of threads on plugs and in
holes...............................................................
Kind of fuel used ...........................................
Signed .................................................[
Examiner.
]
I HEREBY CERTIFY that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
above report is correct.
Signed .................................................[
Officer in Charge.
]
NOTE: If necessary, use other side for "Remarks."
Original of this form must be posted in the cab of the locomotive —
(Part III, section 65 (b)).
[Size 6" x 9" on green paper.]
Form No. 1A
MONTHLY POWER UNIT INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
(Motive Power Other than Steam)
..................................................[
date
]
Type of unit ............................................
{No.
{Initials
Operated
by.........................................................................................................
COMPANY.
In accordance with the requirements of the rules and regulations
issued in pursuance of the
British Columbia Railway Act
, the parts and appurtenances of Power Unit No.
.................................were inspected on
...............................[
date
], and the parts and appurtenances were left in the condition
reported below.
1.
The power unit is propelled by
10.
Date of previous insulation tests as shown by
.......................................................................
reports on file was ............................[
date
]
2.
Hydrostatic test of ..... lb. was applied to
Were insulation tests applied at this
main air reservoirs.
inspection?
Date of previous test as shown by reports on
Name of Circuit
Normal Voltage
Test Voltage
file was .....................[
date
]
.......................................................................
3.
Were main air reservoirs hammer tested?
.......................................................................
Date of previous test as shown by reports on
11.
Condition of current collectors is
file was .........................[
date
]
.......................................................................
4.
Were drawbars and pins removed and
12.
Condition of control equipment is
inspected?
.......................................................................
Date of previous removal .....................[
date
]
13.
Condition of control circuits and terminals is
5.
Were articulated connection pins removed
.......................................................................
and inspected?
14.
Condition of power producing equipment is
Date of previous removal .....................[
date
]
.......................................................................
6.
Condition of draught gear and draw gear is
15.
Condition of power circuits or transmission
.......................................................................
is
....................................................................
7.
Condition of brake and signal equipment is
16.
Condition of lightning arresters is
......................................................................
.......................................................................
8.
Condition of running gear is
17.
Were meters tested?
.......................................................................
Date meters were previously tested as shown
9.
Condition of safety appliances
by reports on file was .........................[
date
]
.......................................................................
I certify that I made the inspections and tests above reported in
Items No. .......... and that statements therein are true and
correct.
(Signed)......................................................
I certify that I made the inspections and tests above reported in
Items No. ............. and that statements therein are true and
correct.
(Signed)......................................................
The above work has been performed under my general supervision and I
believe the report is true and correct.
Signed .................................................[
Officer in Charge.
]
[Size 6" x 9" on white paper.]
Original Form 2B
Cert. No.
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS —
BRITISH COLUMBIA
Inspector's Annual Report And Boiler Certificate
Date of Inspection .........................[
date
]
Type of locomotive ...........................
{Road No.
{D.R. No.
Company....................................................................
In accordance with the requirements of the rules and regulations
made pursuant to the British Columbia
Railway Act
, I have inspected Steam Locomotive No. ..........................
located at ......................................, its parts and
appurtenances, and find it to be as follows: —
1.
Hydrostatic test of ........... lb. was applied to boiler.
19.
Crown sheet ........... Fusible plug ..............
2.
Date of hydrostatic test ........................[
date
]
20.
Mud ring corners ........... W.O. plugs .............
3.
State of boiler under test ................................
21.
Flue sheets: Back ............. Front .............
4.
Age of boiler ...............................;
22.
Wrapper ....... Throat ........ Face plate ........
Type of longt. joints ......................................
23.
Steam gauge...................................................
5.
Date last removal of flues ....................[
date
]
24.
Safety valves ......... to pop at ...... lb. ......... lb.
6.
Date last removal of lagging ................[
date
]
25.
Water gauge .......... Test cocks ..........
7.
Was boiler entered and inspected?
26.
Blow off cocks ......... Nigger head .........
8.
Interior condition of boiler ............................
27.
Injectors ......... Check valves ..........
9.
Exterior condition of boiler ...........................
28.
Hydrostatic test of ......... lb. was applied to
10.
Is boiler being properly washed out?
main reservoirs.
11.
Are Forms 1 and 2 properly displayed in cab?
29.
Condition of: Air brake and signal equipment
12.
Condition of: Longitudinal braces
.......................................................................
.......................................................................
30.
Throttle and connections ...............................
13.
Dome and reinforcing ....................................
31.
Draught and draw gear ..................................
14.
Crown stays and stay-bolts ............................
32.
Driving and running gear
15.
Flues
..............................................................
.......................................................................
16.
Arch tubes
.....................................................
33.
Tires and wheels ............................................
17.
Superheaters
..................................................
34.
Safety appliances ..........................................
18.
Inside fire box sheets .....................................
35.
Tender
...........................................................
Boiler Certificate
By authority of the Province of British Columbia this certificate
expires ..............................[
date
]
I HEREBY CERTIFY that I have this day inspected the above
Locomotive, No. .................., owned by
....................................... and having carefully
examined the boiler have found the same to be in
....................... condition, and therefore authorize a steam
working pressure of ........... pounds per square inch, and no more.
Type of boiler
...................................................
Dated .............................[
date
]
Horse power ...........................................
.........................................................[
Inspector
]
Registered No. ..................
(NOTE.—This certificate is issued subject to the conditions and
remarks as shown in the reverse side.)
[Size 6" x 9" on white paper.]
Form No. 3
Locomotive
{No.
{Initials
.....................................................................COMPANY
LOCOMOTIVE INSPECTION REPORT
Instructions. — Each locomotive and tender must be inspected after
each trip or day's work and report made on this form, whether
needing repairs or not. Proper explanation must be made hereon for
failure to repair any defects reported, and the form approved by
foreman, before the locomotive is returned to service.
Inspected at ....................................................,
time ...... m., Date ...............................
Repairs needed:
......................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................
Condition of injectors .................................
Water glass .....................................
Condition of gauge cocks .............................
Brakes ............................................
Condition of piston rod and valve stem packing
.........................................................................................
Safety valve lifts at ................................... lb.
seats at .................................. lb.
Main reservoir pressure, ............................... lb.
Brake pipe pressure, .................. lb.
(Signature) ...................................................
(Occupation) ...................................................
The above work has been performed, except as noted, and the report
is approved.
...........................................................[
Foreman.
]
NOTE. — Additional items may be added to this form if desired.
Form No. 4
SPECIFICATION CARD FOR LOCOMOTIVE No. ...............
Owned by ...................................................
Railroad Company.
Operated by ..................................................
Railroad Company.
Builder
........................................................
Builder's No. of boiler .........................
When built ..............................................
Where built ..............................................
Type of boiler ..............................................
Material of boiler-shell sheets........................
Material of rivets ..........................................
Dome: Where located ...................................
Grate area in sq. ft. .................
Height of lowest reading of gauge-glass above crown sheet
...............................
Height of lowest gauge-cock above crown-sheet................
Water bar tubes:
O. diam. ............thickness ...........
Arch-tubes: O. diam. ...... thickness .........
Fire-tubes:
Number ...... O. diam. ......, length ........
Width of water-space at sides of fire-box measured at centre
line of boiler:
Front ......, back ......
Shell-sheets:
Front tube ...... thick.
1st course ........." ...... I. diam.
2nd course ........" ...... "
3rd course ........" ...... "
Mem.
:When courses are not cylindrical, give
inside diameter at each end.
Fire-box:
Thickness of sheets —
Tube ......, Crown ......,
Side ......, Door ......,
Combustion chamber ......
Inside throat (if tube-sheet is in two pieces)....
External fire-box:
Thickness of sheets — throat ......,
back head ......, roof ......, sides ......
Safety-valves:
No. Size Make Style
.............................................................................
............................................................................
Fire-box stay-bolts:
O. diam. ....., spaced ..... x .....
Combustion chamber stay-bolts:
O. diam. ....., spaced ..... x .....
Crown-stays: O. diam., top ......, bottom ......
spaced ...... x .......
Crown-bar rivets: O. diam.,
top ....., bottom ......, spaced ...... x ......
Water-space at five-box ring:
sides ....., back ....., front ....
Dome inside diam.
Thickness of sheet ......, base ......, liner ......
Were you furnished with authentic records of the tests of
materials used in boiler?
Records on file in the office of the ..................... of
the .....................
Company show the lowest tensile strength of the sheets in the
shell of this boiler is:
1st course ...... lb. per sq. in.
2nd course ...... lb. per sq. in.
3rd course ...... lb. per sq. in.
Is boiler-shell circular at all points?
If shell is flattened, state location and amount
..................................................................
Are all parts thoroughly stayed?
Are dome and other openings sufficiently reinforced?
Is boiler equipped with fusible plugs?
Make working sketch here or attach drawing of longitudinal and
circumferential seams used in shell of boiler, indicating on which
courses used, and give calculated efficiency of weakest longitudinal
seam.
The maximum stresses at the allowed working-pressure were found by
calculation to be as follows: —
Stay-bolts at root of thread ...... lb. per sq. in.
Crown-stays or crown-bar rivets at root of thread
or smallest section, top ........ lb. per sq. in.
Stay-bolts at reduced section ...... lb. per sq. in.
Crown-stays or crown-bar rivets at root of thread
or smallest section, bottom ...... lb. per sq. in.
Shearing stress on rivets ...... lb. per sq. in.
Tension on net section of plate in longitudinal
seam of lowest efficiency ...... lb. per sq. in.
Round and rectangular braces ..... lb. per sq. in.
Gusset braces ...... lb. per sq. in.
Dimensions and data taken from locomotive were furnished by
...............................................
...................................................................................................................................................
Data upon which above calculations were made were obtained
from Drawing No. ............., dated
..................................[
date
], furnished by
................................................. Company.
.....................................................................
[
Mechanical Engineer
.]
PROVINCE OF ......................................
COUNTY OF .........................................
ss.
........................................................ being
duly sworn says that he is the officer who signed the
foregoing specification, that he has satisfied himself of the
correctness of the drawings and data used, has verified all of
the calculations, and has examined the record of present
condition of boiler dated .............. [
date
] and sworn to by Inspector ........................ and
believe that the design, construction and condition of Boiler
No. ...................... renders it safe for a working
pressure of .................. pounds per square inch.
.....................................................................
[
Name of affiant.
]
Subscribed and sworn to before me
................................... [
date
].
.....................................................................
[
Notary Public.
]
APPROVED:
................................................................
Form 5 (M.P. 306)
BRITISH COLUMBIA MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS
Annual Test Report For Air Reservoirs
To Be Submitted to the Chief Inspector's Office within 15 Days of
Test
Railway
..................................................................
Condition of reservoir
...........................................
Station
....................................................................
Identification No.
...............................................
Location or service
..................................................
Date of test ................................[
date
]
Was reservoir hammer tested? ................................
Working pressure ...... lb.
Was reservoir given hydrostatic test?
Date of previous hammer test ........................[
date
]
Hydrostatic pressure applied ...... lb.
Were manhole plates removed and reservoir
Were stay-bolts inspected? ......
entered and inspected? .......................
(Flat head type reservoir.) ......
(Where none, so state.) .......................
Were stay-bolts hammer tested? ......
Was reservoir washed out?.......................
(Where none, so state.)
.......................................
Were safety-valves tested and left in good
Were air-gauges tested and left good condition?
condition? ......
..............................................................................
Safety-valve pressure ...... lb.
Remarks:
......................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................
Dated at .....................................,
...............................[
date
]
.....................................................................
[
Signature of Inspector
]
Figures 1 to 15
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 1:
Steel tire retaining-ring fastening, driving and trailing wheels
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 2:
Steel tire shrinkage fastening with shoulder and retaining
segments,
driving and trailing wheels.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 3:
Steel tire shrinkage fastening, driving and trailing wheels.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 4:
Steel tire retaining-ring fastening, minimum thickness for steel
tires,
engine and tender truck wheels.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 5:
Steel tire shrinkage fastening only, minimum thickness for steel
tires, engine
and tender truck wheels.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 6:
Steel tire retaining-ring fastening, minimum thickness for steel
tires, engine
and tender truck wheels.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 7:
Steel wheel, minimum thickness of rim, engine and tender truck
wheels.
Figure 8:
Wheel defect, worn coupler limit, worn journal collar and journal
filler gauge.
Figure 9:
Method of gauging flat spots.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 10:
Method of gauging thin flanges.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 11:
Method of gauging vertical flanges.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 12:
Method of gauging broken rims.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 13:
Method of gauging broken rims.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 14:
Method of gauging worn coupler.
COMPANY'S MONTHLY LOCOMOTIVE WASHOUT,
INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPORT
Figure 15:
Heumann Profile Alternate to A.A.R. Standard Wheel Profile.
1.
Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.
2.
This is probably a reference to the section 103 (1) (a) of the
Forest Act
, R.S.B.C. 1924, c. 93; [later revised as R.S.B.C.
1936-102-104 (1) (a); 1948-128-103 (1) (a); 1960-153-106 (1)
(a).]
3.
now called the
Engineers and Geoscientists Act
[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 271]
