"point in time" regulation content Plant protection act North american gypsy moth eradication (north delta and mount douglas) Regulation
B.c. reg. 132/2004 Regulation before repealed by 132/2004, effective june 21, 2004.
B.c. reg. 132/2004 O.c. 277/2004 Deposited march 26, 2004 Plant protection act North american gypsy moth eradication (north delta and mount Douglas) regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"application" Means an application of btk for the control of the north american Gypsy moth; "btk" Means the bacterial insecticide Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki In the form of foray 48b or a product equivalent to foray 48b.
Where the applications are to be made 2 Applications in the manner specified in this regulation are to be Made within the spray zones potentially infested with north American gypsy moth set out in the schedules to this regulation.
Restrictions on the time of applications 3 (1)  applications may be made only on or between april 15 and June 20, 2004.
(2)  aerial applications may be made only from sunrise to 7:30 a.m.
Rate of application 4 (1)  no single application may be made at a rate that exceeds 4 litres of product per hectare.
(2)  no more than 3 applications at about 10 day intervals May be made to any spray zone.
Product requirements 5 All requirements specified on the registered label for the btk Must be met in making any application.
Further conditions for conducting an application 6 (1)  applications must be conducted (a) under a pest control service licence issued under the Pesticide control act regulation, and (b) by certified pesticide applicators employed or retained By or on behalf of the government.
(2)  applications must not take place if wind speeds are Greater than 8 km/hr.
(3)  pilots must be in continuous radio contact with Supervisory ground-based personnel during aerial applications.
Notification
7 (1)  written notification of an application must be provided To the following at least 24 hours before the application within The spray zone set out in schedule 1 [north delta] :
(a) the medical health officers for the fraser health Authority;
(b) the principals of all schools within the spray zone and The overspray zone; (c) the owners or managers of any licensed care facilities Within the spray zone and the overspray zone, such as hospitals, Medical clinics, day care facilities, extended care facilities or Facilities that house or care for persons that have compromised Immune systems; (d) the corporate officer for the corporation of delta; (e) the administrator appointed under the Pesticide control act ; (f) the news directors of a least 2 am radio stations, 2 fm Radio stations and 2 television stations that have regularly Scheduled news broadcasts to people in the area where the Application will take place.
(2)  written notification of an application must be provided To the following at least 24 hours before the application within The spray zone set out in schedule 2 [mount douglas] :
(a) the medical health officers for the vancouver island Health authority; (b) the principals of all schools within the spray zone and The overspray zone; (c) the owners or managers of any licensed care facilities Within the spray zone and the overspray zone, such as hospitals, Medical clinics, day care facilities, extended care facilities or Facilities that house or care for persons that have compromised Immune systems; (d) the corporate officer for the district of saanich; (e) the manager responsible for mount douglas park; (f) the administrator appointed under the Pesticide control act ; (g) the news directors of a least 2 am radio stations, 2 fm Radio stations and 2 television stations that have regularly Scheduled news broadcasts to people in the area where the Application will take place.
(3)  notification under subsections (1) and (2) must include Details on the time and location of the application.
Schedules 1 and 2 Exempt from publication under section 6 of the regulations act.
These schedules may be obtained by contacting The forest practices branch, ministry of forests, at (250)387-8742 Or by Visiting the following website:
Www.for.gov.bc.ca/hfp/gypsymoth/index.htm Note:
This regulation is repealed effective june 21, 2004.
[provisions of the Plant protection act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 365, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 8]