"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Riparian Areas Protection Act
Riparian Areas Regulation
B.C. Reg. 376/2004
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
November 1, 2019
Section 1
January 14, 2010
February 29, 2016
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 178/2019, effective November 1,
2019.
B.C. Reg. 376/2004
O.C. 837/2004
Deposited July 27, 2004
effective March 31, 2005
Riparian Areas Protection Act
Riparian Areas Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 41/2016, February 29, 2016]
Definitions and interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Riparian Areas Protection Act
;
"active floodplain"
means an area of land that supports floodplain plant species and
is
(a)
adjacent to a stream that may be subject to temporary, frequent or
seasonal inundation, or
(b)
within a boundary that is indicated by the visible high water
mark;
"assessment methods"
means the methods set out in the Schedule;
"assessment report"
means a report prepared in accordance with the assessment methods
to assess the potential impact of a proposed development in a
riparian assessment area and which is certified for the purposes
of this regulation by a qualified environmental professional;
"development"
means any of the following associated with or resulting from the
local government regulation or approval of residential, commercial
or industrial activities or ancillary activities to the extent
that they are subject to local government powers under Part 26 of
the
Local Government Act
:
(a)
removal, alteration, disruption or destruction of vegetation;
(b)
disturbance of soils;
(c)
construction or erection of buildings and structures;
(d)
creation of nonstructural impervious or semi-impervious surfaces;
(e)
flood protection works;
(f)
construction of roads, trails, docks, wharves and bridges;
(g)
provision and maintenance of sewer and water services;
(h)
development of drainage systems;
(i)
development of utility corridors;
(j)
subdivision as defined in section 872 of the
Local Government Act
;
"development proposal"
means any development that is proposed in a riparian assessment
area that is within or partly within the boundaries of an area
administered by a local government;
"fish"
means all life stages of
(a)
salmonids,
(b)
game fish, and
(c)
regionally significant fish;
"floodplain plant species"
means plant species that are typical of an area of inundated or
saturated soil conditions and that are distinct from plant species
on freely drained adjacent upland sites;
"high water mark"
means the visible high water mark of a stream where the presence
and action of the water are so common and usual, and so long
continued in all ordinary years, as to mark on the soil of the bed
of the stream a character distinct from that of its banks, in
vegetation, as well as in the nature of the soil itself, and
includes the active floodplain;
"ministry"
means the minister's ministry;
"natural features, functions and conditions"
include but are not limited to the following:
(a)
large organic debris that falls into the stream or streamside
area, including logs, snags and root wads;
(b)
areas for channel migration, including active floodplains;
(c)
side channels, intermittent streams, seasonally wetted contiguous
areas and floodplains;
(d)
the multicanopied forest and ground cover adjacent to streams that
(i)
moderates water temperatures,
(ii)
provides a source of food, nutrients and organic matter to
streams,
(iii)
establishes root matrices that stabilize soils and stream banks,
thereby minimizing erosion, and
(iv)
buffers streams from sedimentation and pollution in surface
runoff;
(e)
a natural source of stream bed substrates;
(f)
permeable surfaces that permit infiltration to moderate water
volume, timing and velocity and maintain sustained water flows in
streams, especially during low flow periods;
"permanent structure"
means any building or structure that was lawfully constructed,
placed or erected on a secure and long lasting foundation on land
in accordance with any local government bylaw or approval
condition in effect at the time of construction, placement or
erection;
"qualified environmental professional"
means an applied scientist or technologist, acting alone or
together with another qualified environmental professional, if
(a)
the individual is registered and in good standing in British
Columbia with an appropriate professional organization constituted
under an Act, acting under that association's code of ethics and
subject to disciplinary action by that association,
(b)
the individual's area of expertise is recognized in the assessment
methods as one that is acceptable for the purpose of providing all
or part of an assessment report in respect of that development
proposal, and
(c)
the individual is acting within that individual's area of
expertise;
"ravine"
means a narrow, steep-sided valley that is commonly eroded by
running water and has a slope grade greater than 3:1;
"riparian area"
means a streamside protection and enhancement area;
"riparian assessment area"
means
(a)
for a stream, the 30 meter strip on both sides of the stream,
measured from the high water mark,
(b)
for a ravine less than 60 metres wide, a strip on both sides of
the stream measured from the high water mark to a point that is 30
metres beyond the top of the ravine bank, and
(c)
for a ravine 60 metres wide or greater, a strip on both sides of
the stream measured from the high water mark to a point that is 10
metres beyond the top of the ravine bank;
"stream"
includes any of the following that provides fish habitat:
(a)
a watercourse, whether it usually contains water or not;
(b)
a pond, lake, river, creek or brook;
(c)
a ditch, spring or wetland that is connected by surface flow to
something referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);
"streamside protection and enhancement area"
means an area
(a)
adjacent to a stream that links aquatic to terrestrial ecosystems
and includes both existing and potential riparian vegetation and
existing and potential adjacent upland vegetation that exerts an
influence on the stream, and
(b)
the size of which is determined according to this regulation on
the basis of an assessment report provided by a qualified
environmental professional in respect of a development proposal;
"top of the ravine bank"
means the first significant break in a ravine slope where the
break occurs such that the grade beyond the break is flatter than
3:1 for a minimum distance of 15 metres measured perpendicularly
from the break, and the break does not include a bench within the
ravine that could be developed;
"wetland"
means land that is inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and
that under normal conditions does support, vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps,
marshes, bogs, fens, estuaries and similar areas that are not part
of the active floodplain of a stream.
(2)
For the purposes of the definition of "streamside protection and
enhancement area," vegetation must be considered to be "potential"
if there is a reasonable ability for regeneration either with
assistance through enhancement or naturally, but an area covered
by a permanent structure must be considered to be incapable of
supporting potential vegetation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 4/2010, s. 3; 41/2016, s. 31.]
Purposes of this regulation
2
The purposes of this regulation are
(a)
to establish directives to protect riparian areas from development
so that the areas can provide natural features, functions and
conditions that support fish life processes, and
(b)
to facilitate an intergovernmental cooperation agreement between
the ministry, Fisheries and Oceans Canada and the Union of British
Columbia Municipalities including the ability for individual
intergovernmental cooperation agreements with local governments
for any of the following:
(i)
the implementation of this regulation;
(ii)
the confirmation of regionally significant fish by the ministry;
(iii)
providing, sharing or confirming information on fish habitat
conditions;
(iv)
describing roles and responsibilities with reference to applicable
and appropriate use of authority and program mandates;
(v)
dispute resolution;
(vi)
a compliance strategy, including education, training, monitoring,
reporting, enforcement and auditing.
[am. B.C. Reg. 148/2006, s. 1.]
Application
3
(1)
This regulation applies within the geographic boundaries of the
following regional districts:
(a)
Capital;
(b)
Central Okanagan;
(c)
Columbia-Shuswap;
(d)
Comox-Strathcona;
(e)
Cowichan Valley;
(f)
Fraser Valley;
(g)
Greater Vancouver, other than within the boundaries of the City of
Vancouver;
(h)
Nanaimo;
(i)
North Okanagan;
(j)
Okanagan-Similkameen;
(k)
Powell River;
(l)
Squamish-Lillooet;
(m)
Sunshine Coast;
(n)
Thompson-Nicola.
(1.1)
This regulation applies to the exercise, in relation to
development, of local government powers under Part 26 of the
Local Government Act
by local governments in those parts of British Columbia described
in subsection (1).
(2)
This regulation does not apply to a development permit or
development variance permit issued only for the purpose of
enabling reconstruction or repair of a permanent structure
described in section 911 (8) of the
Local Government Act
if the structure remains on its existing foundation.
[am. B.C. Reg. 148/2006, s. 2.]
Assessment reports required before development
4
(1)
In respect of development proposals related wholly or partially to
riparian assessment areas within the jurisdiction of a local
government, a local government must not approve or allow
development to proceed in those riparian assessment areas unless
the development proceeds in accordance with subsection (2) or (3).
(2)
A local government may approve or allow development to proceed if
the local government is notified by the ministry that Fisheries
and Oceans Canada and the ministry have been
(a)
notified of the development proposal, and
(b)
provided with a copy of an assessment report, prepared by a
qualified environmental professional who has carried out an
assessment, that
(i)
certifies that the qualified environmental professional is
qualified to carry out the assessment,
(ii)
certifies that the assessment methods have been followed, and
(iii)
provides the professional opinion of the qualified environmental
professional that
(A)
if the development is implemented as proposed there will be no
harmful alteration, disruption or destruction of natural features,
functions and conditions that support fish life processes in the
riparian assessment area, or
(B)
if the streamside protection and enhancement areas identified in
the report are protected from the development, and the measures
identified in the report as necessary to protect the integrity of
those areas from the effects of the development are implemented by
the developer, there will be no harmful alteration, disruption or
destruction of natural features, functions and conditions that
support fish life processes in the riparian assessment area.
(3)
A local government may approve or allow development to proceed if
the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans or a regulation under the
Fisheries Act
(Canada) authorizes the harmful alteration, disruption or
destruction of natural features, functions and conditions that
support fish life processes in the riparian assessment area that
would result from the implementation of the development proposal.
[am. B.C. Reg. 148/2006, s. 3.]
Development of strategies for monitoring, enforcement and
education
5
The local government must cooperate in developing strategies with
the ministry and Fisheries and Oceans Canada
(a)
for obtaining certificates by qualified environmental
professionals that the conditions set out in assessment reports
have been properly implemented,
(b)
for monitoring and enforcement to ensure that assessment reports
have been properly prepared in accordance with the assessment
methods and properly implemented, and
(c)
for public education with respect to the protection of riparian
areas.
Use of local government powers for protection and enhancement of
areas
6
When exercising its powers with respect to development, a local
government must protect its riparian areas in accordance with this
regulation.
Preparation of assessment report by qualified environmental
professional
7
An assessment report for the purposes of this regulation must
employ the assessment methods set out in the Schedule and must
report on all of the following:
(a)
the width of the streamside protection and enhancement area which
must be protected;
(b)
the measures necessary to protect the integrity of the streamside
protection and enhancement area.
Transitional
8
(1)
In this section,
"former regulation"
means the Streamside Protection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 10/2001.
(2)
If, before this regulation came into force, a local government had
established streamside protection and enhancement areas in
accordance with the former regulation, the local government is
deemed to have met the requirements of this regulation in respect
of those areas.
(3)
Despite section 6 (5) of the former regulation, an amendment of a
streamside protection and enhancement area referred to in
subsection (2) of this section must be in accordance with this
regulation.
Schedule
[en. B.C. Reg. 148/2006, s. 4.]
Note:
the Schedule of Assessment Methods is exempt from publication. It
may be seen at the office of the Resource Stewardship Division,
Resource Management Objectives Branch, Ministry of Forests, Lands
and Natural Resource Operations, 3rd Floor, 1520 Blanshard Street,
Victoria, B.C. V8W 3K2.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Riparian Areas Protection Act
, S.B.C. 1997, c. 21, section 13]
Section 1 (1) definition of "ministry" BEFORE amended by BC Reg
4/2010, effective January 14, 2010.
"ministry"
means the Ministry of Water, Land and Air Protection;
Section 1 (1) definition of "Act" BEFORE amended by BC Reg 41/2016,
effective February 29, 2016.
"Act"
means the
Fish Protection Act
;
