"point in time" regulation content Railway act Part x: buildings, shops and terminals employing workmen regulations B.c. reg. 461/59 Note: this regulation has been placed in the regulations point in Time collection. this regulation is not repealed.
B.c. reg. 461/59 O.c. 2886/59; certificate 1003 1 Railway act Part x: buildings, shops and terminals employing workmen Regulations
Interpretation
Definitions
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
"act" Means the Railway act Of british columbia; "certificate" Means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector; "chief inspector" Or
"inspector" Means an inspecting engineer, inspector or assistant inspector Appointed under the provisions of the act or of the Public service act ; "owner" Means any person, firm or corporation in possession of a railway, And includes the manager or other chief officer of such firm or Corporation;
"shop" Or
"shops" Means an establishment in connection with a railway where motive Power, rolling stock or other equipment is built or maintained and Shall include all buildings, structures, tracks and yards in Conjunction thereto, and all machinery and apparatus installed in Connection therewith or used with reference thereto; "stationary steam plant" Means and includes the boilers, pumps, compressors, engines or Other equipment and all pipes and connections and every part Thereof, and all apparatus and things attached to and connected Therewith or used with reference thereto; and which steam plant is Used in conjunction with a terminal or shops of a railway.
[am. b.c. reg. 40/91, s. 7.] Extent and application of regulations Application
1 These regulations shall apply to all railways operating under the Legislative authority of the province of british columbia.
Company responsible for condition of its shops 2 Every railway company will be held responsible for the general Condition of all shops under its control.
Locomotive foreman responsible for stationary boilers 3 The locomotive foreman in charge at each point where stationary Boilers are operated will be held responsible for the stationary Boilers and appurtenances under his jurisdiction. he must know That all defects disclosed by any inspection are properly repaired Before the boiler is returned to service. such railway company Shall appoint a practical boiler maker to carry out repairs, Inspections and test of stationary boilers, and all reports of Such filed with the ministry shall bear his signature in Conjunction with that of the mechanical officer in charge of the Shop where such repairs, tests and examinations are made. the safe Working pressure for each boiler shall be fixed by the chief Inspector of the ministry after full consideration has been given To the design, workmanship, age and condition.
Portions of boiler code applicable 4 That portion of the regulations known as part i and part iii of The "british columbia railway department boiler code", adopted by Order in council no. 126 under the Railway act On january 21, 1947, shall govern the design, registration and Construction of all pressure parts used. in particular, part i, Relating to the design, registration and construction of power Boilers, shall govern the design, registration and construction of Stationary boilers and their appurtenances; and part iii, relating To the design, registration and construction of unfired pressure Vessels.
General inspection regulations Inspection of stationary steam plant 5 Every stationary steam plant shall be inspected before being put Into service and at least every 12 months thereafter by an Inspector of the ministry. inspectors shall have the right, at all Reasonable hours, to examine boilers and may refuse to grant a Certificate for any boiler found defective according to the Provisions of these regulations. they may order out of service any Boiler which for any cause they consider unfit and dangerous to Operate.
Reporting of defects 6 It is the duty of every locomotive foreman to inform the inspector Of any defects known or believed to exist in the boilers under his Charge.
If boilers too hot for safety inspection 7 Inspectors may decline to examine boilers considered too hot for Safety and convenience, and shall refuse to grant certificates for Same until a satisfactory examination can be made.
Methods of boiler inspection 8 In order to satisfy himself as to the thickness of a plate or the Internal condition of a boiler, the inspector may, should he deem It necessary, order holes to be cut therein and may demand such Information by drawings and specifications of the several parts as Will enable him to determine their strength. in the event of such Information being unobtainable, he shall use a safety factor of 5.5 with such additions thereto as his judgment may dictate.
First and subsequent inspection requirements 9 At the first inspection of a stationary boiler the jacket and Covering shall be removed by the owner or his agent, so that a Thorough examination of the plates and rivets can be made. at Subsequent inspections such jackets and covering or any part of Same shall be removed upon the request of the inspector.
Safety valves, fittings, etc.
10 Inspectors shall see that the safety valves, water gauges, test Cocks, blowoff pipes, main steam pipes and all fittings and Connections of boilers are in good order and sufficient in number And that they comply with the requirements of these regulations.
Calculation of strength of boiler 11 Inspectors shall calculate the strength of stationary boilers by Formulae provided in part i of the "british columbia railway Department boiler code", and determine the safe working pressure Thereof according to the calculated strength of the various parts And the workmanship and material of which they are composed, and Shall record such working pressure upon the certificate of Inspection. in cases where the necessary formula for any type of Boiler is not provided, application shall be made to the chief Inspector, who shall furnish same.
Excess of pressure 12 In cases where inspectors find that a boiler is or has been Carrying an excess of pressure beyond that which has been recorded On the certificate of inspection, they shall report same to the Chief inspector for prosecution and require the owner to install Thereon a lockup valve of approved pattern to prevent the carrying Of any excessive pressure.
Certificates
Issuance and display of certificate 13 A certificate shall be issued by the inspector for every Stationary boiler found, after inspection and testing, to be in Satisfactory working condition. such certificate, showing date of Last inspection and working pressure allowed, shall be placed Under glass in the boiler room adjacent to the boiler.
Period of certificate 14 Certificate shall be issued covering a period of 12 months, but Should the inspector consider it advisable, he may issue a Certificate for a lesser period.
Suspension of certificate 15 Inspectors finding defects in any boiler having an unexpired Certificate may suspend such certificate until repairs are made or Necessary fittings supplied.
Yearly fee for certificate 16 Certificates shall be delivered to the owner of the boiler upon Payment of yearly fees.
Fees
Fees
17 (1)  fees or dues shall be payable yearly to the credit of The minister of finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner Of every steam boiler as follows: at the first inspection, except As provided in subsection (3), $1 per horsepower, minimum charge $50, maximum charge $200, for each boiler. all subsequent yearly Inspections, 75¢ per horsepower, minimum charge $50.
(2)  fees for the inspection of boilers during construction And hydrostatic testing on completion shall be payable to the Credit of the minister of finance, through the chief inspector, by The manufacturer at the rate of 50¢ per horsepower, minimum charge $50. the manufacturer shall then be issued an inspector's report Of examination and hydrostatic boiler test, and a certificate may Be issued when the boiler is placed in service upon payment of the First inspection fee by the owner in accordance with subsection (1).
(3)  for the surveying, inspection and first hydrostatic Testing of a boiler not built under inspection and in respect of Which no certificate of inspection has been issued under these Regulations, fees shall be payable to the credit of the minister Of finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner or his agent At the rate of $1.50 per horsepower, with a minimum charge of $75 And a maximum charge of $300. on payment of this fee by the owner Or his agent, and provided the inspector is satisfied with the Condition of the boiler, the owner may be issued a certificate to Operate the boiler, and the fees for subsequent yearly inspections Shall be in accordance with subsection (1).
(4)  for the internal inspection of boilers, as required Under sections 20 and 23, fees shall be payable to the credit of The minister of finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner As follows: for boilers 75 horsepower and under, $50; 76 up to 150 Horsepower, $75; over 150 horsepower, $100 for each boiler.
(5)  fees for the inspection of air reservoirs during Construction and hydrostatic testing on completion shall be Payable by the manufacturer to the credit of the minister of Finance, through the chief inspector, as follows: for each air Reservoir 36 inches in diameter, $30. for each pressure vessel Designed for pressures in excess of 500 pounds, $50.
(6)  fees for the inspection of air reservoirs, subsequent to Their construction, shall be payable to the credit of the minister Of finance, through the chief inspector, by the owner according to The scale of fees contained in subsection (4).
[am. b.c. reg. 172/87, s. 5 (a)-(g).] Fee for further inspection within year 18 In case of defects requiring repairs that render another Inspection necessary within the year, a minimum fee of $50 for Each inspection and expenses will be charged; or when an inspector Acts in an advisory capacity, a fee of $200 per day and expenses Will be charged.
[am. b.c. reg. 172/87, s. 5 (b), (h).] Definitions
19 The word "yearly" In connection with yearly fees means the calendar year from January 1 to december 31. for the purpose of an inspection Rendered necessary "within the year", referred to in the last Preceding section, the word "year" Means 12 calendar months from the date (if required during the First year) or the anniversary of the date (if required during Subsequent years) of the first certificate of inspection. the word "horsepower" Means the power of a boiler calculated by dividing the number of Square feet of heating surface by 10.
Interior inspection of boilers Interior inspection — general 20 Inspectors shall examine the interior of every boiler thoroughly Before it is put into service and whenever a sufficient number of Flues are removed to allow of examination.
Interior inspection — ordered 21 After due consideration has been given as to years in service or When for any reason it is deemed the interior parts or shell of The boiler must be examined, the chief inspector may order all the Tubes removed so that an internal examination of the boiler can be Made.
Details of interior inspection 22 Inspectors must examine the entire interior of the boiler for Cracks, pitting, grooving or indication of overheating, and for Damage where mud has collected or heavy scale formed. the edges of Plates, all laps, seams and points where cracks and defects are Likely to develop, or which an exterior examination may have Indicated, must be given an especially minute examination. it must Be seen that braces and stays are taut, that pins are properly Secured in place, and that each is in a condition to support its Proportion of the load.
Exterior inspection of boilers Exterior inspection — general 23 Inspectors shall examine the exterior of every boiler thoroughly Before it is put into service and whenever the jacket and lagging Are removed.
Exterior inspection — ordered 24 If an inspector considers it necessary, he may order the removal Of the jacket and lagging at any time when leaks are indicated or Where he may have reason to suspect defects are in evidence.
Hydrostatic testing of boilers Requirement for hydrostatic testing 25 Inspectors shall, whenever it is deemed necessary, and they shall, Before a boiler is put into service, and at least once a year Thereafter, subject each and every boiler as set forth in this Part to a hydrostatic test of at least 25% and not more than 50% Of the working pressure allowed, using water at a temperature of Between 60 and 100° fahrenheit. the pressures shall be under Proper control. during hydrostatic tests, the safety valve or Valves shall be removed or each valve disk shall be held to its Seat by means of a testing clamp and not by screwing down the Compression screw upon the spring.
Owner's responsibility during testing 26 For the purpose of such tests the owner or his agent shall provide The necessary piping and fittings to connect the inspector's pump To the boiler, and shall provide men to fill the boiler with Water, make all joints, work the test pump and assist the Inspector during the test.
Dome-cap and throttle stand-pipe removal 27 The dome cap or manhole covers must be removed and the interior Surface and connections of the boiler examined as thoroughly as Conditions will permit.
Inspection after repairs 28 When all necessary repairs have been completed, the boiler shall Be fired up and the steam pressure raised to not less than the Allowed working pressure, and the boiler and appurtenances Carefully examined. all cocks, valves, seams, rivets and bolts Must be tight under the pressure and all defects disclosed must be Repaired.
Defects and reinspection 29 In any case where defects are discovered or in which the test is Unsatisfactory to the inspector, the defects shall be made good And the boiler reinspected before a certificate is issued.
Staybolt testing Frequency of testing 30 All staybolts shall be tested at least once each month. staybolts Shall also be tested at the time of each annual hydrostatic test.
Testing of flexible staybolts 31 Inspectors shall, when they deem it necessary, order the caps of Flexible staybolts removed so that the staybolt heads can be Examined.
Parts of boilers must conform to part i of boiler code 32 For the purpose of this part the design of all stays, flat Surfaces and other parts of boilers shall conform to part i of the Ministry's boiler code.
Steam plants to conform to ministry's boiler code Stationary steam plants must conform to boiler code 33 Every stationary steam plant to which these regulations apply Shall conform to the requirements of the ministry's boiler code.
In particular, part i of the boiler code shall govern the design, Registration and construction of all stationary boilers as well as All appurtenances, fittings, piping, settings and boiler rooms of Such stationary boilers and all things attached thereto and used In conjunction therewith.
Part iii of the boiler code shall govern the design, registration And construction of all unfired pressure vessels used in or with Conjunction to any such stationary boiler or shop to which these Regulations apply.
Boiler attendants Fitness and instruction of boiler personnel 34 Except as otherwise provided, it shall be the duty of the Locomotive foreman, or the person acting in the capacity of Locomotive foreman, in charge at each point where stationary Boilers are operated, to see that the personnel engaged in firing Or attending such boilers are fit and proper persons to perform These duties. it shall also be the duty of the locomotive foreman, Or persons acting in the capacity of locomotive foreman, under Whose charge such boilers are operating, to see that boiler Attendants have been properly instructed as to safe operation of Stationary boilers, and that all such attendants report any Defects or irregularities immediately to him.
Reporting of defects 35 It shall be the duty of every locomotive foreman, or person acting In the capacity of locomotive foreman, to see that the chief Inspector is notified of any defects known to exist in boilers Operating under his charge.
Substitution of unfit personnel 36 In cases where, after proper investigation, it has been proved to The satisfaction of the chief inspector that locomotive foremen or Attendants employed are not fit and proper persons to be in charge Of stationary steam plants, the chief inspector shall notify the Company in writing that until fit and proper persons are employed To fulfil these duties properly qualified engineers certified Under the Power engineers and boiler and pressure vessel safety act Shall be engaged.
Testing of shop air receivers Testing of air receivers 37 Before using, and every 12 months thereafter, all air receivers Shall be hydrostatically and hammer tested. the hydrostatic test Applied shall be 25% in excess of the allowed working pressure.
After testing, all such receivers shall be stencilled as to date Of test and hydrostatic pressure applied during test.
Filing of form 38 After test as outlined in section 37, form m.p. 306 shall be Filled in and signed and displayed under glass adjacent to air Receivers tested, and a copy must be filed with the chief Inspector.
Placement of main air receivers 39 Main air receivers shall be placed outside of buildings adjacent To compressor room. they must be placed clear of eave drips and Wherever possible placed on end on appropriate stands, and Extraneous material shall not be allowed to accumulate in or Around such air receivers.
Testing of pressure tanks 40 Before using, and every 12 months thereafter, all pressure tanks Used in conjunction with shop equipment such as tire shimming Torches, whitewashing machines, etc., shall be subjected to a Hydrostatic and hammer test of at least 25% in excess of the main Shop receiver pressure. after testing, all such tanks shall be Stencilled with the date and place of such test and the Hydrostatic pressure applied during test.
Shop tracks and yard Compliance with b.c. reg. 452/59 41 With respect to buildings and structures, proper compliance must Be made with part i, the location, construction and clearances Regulations (b.c. reg. 452/59).
Distance of material from nearest rail 42 No material shall be placed or piled closer than 6 feet from the Gauge side of the nearest rail.
Packings of switches and frogs 43 Special attention shall be given to the packings of switches and Frogs on shop tracks where workmen are employed.
Warning of open pits 44 Where it is impracticable to rail off open pits (such as Locomotive pits), it is recommended that a yellow painted line be Maintained 2 feet from the walk edge of the opening of all such Pits. rail stops on roundhouse and shop pits shall be painted Yellow.
Ventilation of shops Ventilation of locomotive exhaust 45 Roof jacks shall be properly maintained where steam locomotives Are housed. provision shall be made where diesel or gas Locomotives are housed for proper ventilation from exhaust of Locomotives to outside atmosphere.
Welding ventilation and screens 46 Where welders are working, proper ventilation shall be maintained And appropriate shield screens used to protect other workmen from Arc flash.
Buildings and structures Building construction 47 All buildings in and around which workmen are employed shall be of Substantial construction, and the roofs, particularly in districts Where heavy snowfalls may be expected, shall be amply braced and Designed to carry such loads.
Space for equipment extending below floor line 48 Where machinery or equipment that requires oiling, adjusting or Repairing extends below the floor line of any workshop, there Shall be sufficient working area with adequate headroom in order That the necessary work may be safely performed.
Fire escapes 49 Adequate fire escapes of approved design shall be provided in all Buildings where workmen are employed. exits leading to fire Escapes shall be direct and shall be kept clear at all times, and The location of exits shall be conspicuously marked by placards.
Fire hoses and extinguishers 50 All buildings where workmen are employed shall be equipped with Adequate water mains and fire hose and with chemical fire Extinguishers of proper type which shall be kept in good order.
All fire fighting equipment shall be frequently inspected.
Main inside and outside doors 51 The main inside and outside doors shall open outwardly, and any Doors leading to or being the principal or main entrance to shops Or to any tower, stairway or fire escape therein or belonging Thereto, shall not be bolted, barred or locked during the usual Working hours.
Landings and floors 52 All doors shall, wherever possible, open on to adequate landings Or floors.
Swinging doors 53 Swinging doors shall be provided with windows or port lookouts.
Floors
54 Floors of working areas shall be kept in good condition and free From all unnecessary debris.
Drainage for spilled liquids 55 When the operation is such that liquids are spilled on the floor, Suitable drainage facilities shall be installed to care for such Spillage.
Slipping hazards 56 Where the nature of the work creates a slipping hazard, floors Shall, wherever possible, be constructed with a cleated, Corrugated or rough abrasive surface.
Steel decks 57 All machinery or structures with steel decks shall be equipped With safety treads, wherever possible.
Placement and proximity of machines 58 Machines shall not be installed in such close proximity to one Another as to constitute a hazard from crowding, nor shall they be Placed so that it is necessary for the operator to work in or near A thoroughfare which is used in such manner as to endanger him.
Aisles
59 Aisles of sufficient width shall be provided in all work areas to Permit the safe passage of vehicles or workmen using the aisles And provide sufficient space in which to handle necessary material Without interference from or to other workmen or machines.
Floors, platforms and decks 60 Floors, platforms and decks shall be kept in good repair and free From protruding nails, grease, slime and debris, and the decks of Wharves shall have clear passageway all around front and sides so That ropes may be handled in safety.
Lifebuoys
61 Lifebuoys equipped with lines shall be installed on floats, Wharves and other places where workmen are employed on or about Water.
Guardrails
62 All floats, docks, wharves and all elevated vehicular Thoroughfares shall be equipped with a substantial guardrail (bull Rail).
Safeguards
Guarding of dangerous machinery, structures or places 63 All dangerous parts of gearing, machinery, shafting, vats, pans, Cauldrons, reservoirs, wheel races, flumes, water channels, doors, Openings in the floors or walks, bridges and all dangerous Structures or places shall be securely guarded.
Inspector may require guarding devices 64 When any dangerous part, structure or place has not been Adequately guarded or when safe methods or processes are not Employed, as required by these regulations, and notice to that Effect has been given to the employers by any inspector authorized Or appointed to inspect same, the guarding devices or methods Deemed necessary by the inspector shall be done and put into Effect as required by and within the time specified by such Inspector.
Restriction on removal of safeguards during repairs 65 No workman shall remove or make ineffective any safeguard, safety Appliance or device attached to machinery, except for the purpose Of immediately making repairs or adjustments or as otherwise Provided for in these regulations; and any workman who removes or Makes ineffective any such safeguard, safety appliance or device For repairs or adjustments shall replace the same immediately upon The completion of such repairs or adjustments.
Replacement of safeguards 66 Every employer or person exercising direction or control over any Workmen who remove such safeguard, safety appliance or device, or Over any workmen for whose protection it is designed, shall have The safeguard, safety appliance or device so removed promptly and Properly replaced.
Workers must use safeguards 67 Every workman shall use all safeguards, safety appliances or Devices furnished for his protection and shall carry out all Regulations which may concern or affect his conduct.
Safeguards on moving parts of machinery 68 In general, machines and mechanical equipment shall have all Moving parts, where exposed to contact and where any recognized Hazard exists, properly protected with approved safeguards.
Safeguards on new machinery 69 When new machines are being purchased, specifications shall, if Possible, require same to be equipped by manufacturer or dealer With suitable guards. machines shall be properly guarded before Being used.
Material and construction of safeguards 70 All safeguards shall be well constructed of the best material for The purpose, and so made as to be suitable for reinstallation After being dismantled.
Safe conditions Condition of buildings and equipment 71 All buildings, structures, machinery and equipment shall be of Sufficient size and strength to safely withstand imposed stresses And to safely perform the functions for which they are used.
Inspections of buildings and equipment 72 Regular inspections of all buildings, structures, machinery and Equipment shall be made by a competent person or persons as often As the character of the equipment and type of operation requires.
Defective equipment or unsafe conditions found by these Inspections shall be corrected or replaced, or their use Discontinued.
Safe access 73 All places where work is performed shall have safe access thereto, And such safe means of access shall be used by all workmen.
No outdoor work in adverse weather conditions 74 Except in cases of emergency, work shall not be carried on out of Doors when conditions of the weather are such as to endanger Workmen.
Tanks and vessels Supports and ladders 75 The supports of all elevated tanks shall be accessible for the Purpose of inspection. every tank over 7 feet deep containing Liquids shall have a fixed ladder both inside and outside, except That tanks with fixed permanent covers, and with manholes close to Bottom, need have outside ladders only.
Open tanks containing harmful substances 76 (1)  when workmen are employed around open tanks containing Harmful substances, the sides of such tanks shall extend at least 36 inches above the working platform, or a standard handrail shall Be provided.
(2)  walkways over open tanks containing harmful substances Or over tanks 4 feet or more in depth shall be at least 20 inches Wide and equipped with standard handrails.
Cylinders for compressed gas 77 No cylinder shall be charged with compressed gas unless such Cylinder is of a type approved for the kind of gas to be contained And had been periodically inspected and pressure tested and found To comply with standards required for the transportation of such Cylinders in canada.
Preparation for repair of vessels for hazardous substances 78 Barrels and similar vessels that have contained oil, gasoline, Other petroleum products or acids shall be thoroughly flushed out, First with steam and then with water, immediately prior to making Any repairs or alterations requiring heat or flame. in cleaning Out, these containers shall have been completely filled with Water. bungs or plugs shall be removed while such work is being Carried on.
Containers for hazardous fluids 79 Closed, underwriters' approved containers shall be used for Gasoline, coal oil, acids and similar fluids and shall be plainly Marked to indicate the character of the contents.
Preparation for repair of vessels for combustible substances 80 No burning, welding or other hot work shall be done on any vessel That has contained a highly combustible substance until such Vessel has been thoroughly cleaned and suitable tests made to Indicate that the vessel is in a condition that the work may be Safely performed.
Protection against fumes 81 No workman shall enter any tank, vessel or chamber that may Contain toxic fumes or gases until it has been ascertained that The air contained therein is sufficiently pure. in doubtful cases, Air supply respirators and life lines shall be used by workmen Entering such places, and another workman shall be stationed at The entrance to assist those that may become distressed.
Lighting
Adequate lighting for workers 82 Adequate lighting shall be provided in all establishments where Workmen are employed.
Portable lighting 83 Where permanent lights cannot be installed, workmen shall be Furnished with portable lights.
Portable lighting for workers climbing ladders 84 When it is necessary for workmen to climb ladders, the portable Lights shall be capable of being carried in such a manner as to Leave both hands free for climbing safely.
Safety devices for portable lights 85 Portable extension lights shall be equipped with a guard and shall Be made with weatherproof sockets and heavy duty cord.
Electrical safety regulations Switches
Compliance with Electrical safety act Regulations
86 All electrical wiring and apparatus used on other than motive Power and rolling stock shall comply with the current regulations As set forth under the Electrical safety act .
Compliance with Railway act Regulations
87 In addition to the following regulations respecting electrical Safety, full compliance must be made with part i of the Regulations made pursuant to the Railway act , in particular, "standard conditions and specifications for wire Crossings".
Access to switches 88 Means of access to switches shall be clear of obstructions at all Times.
If switch open for inspection or repair 89 When any switch has been opened to allow of inspection of or Repairs to the equipment it controls, such switch shall be locked Or otherwise secured in the "off" position and a notice, "not to Be closed", attached thereto.
Marking of switches — circuits and motors 90 All switches shall be plainly marked to show the circuits which They control. all motors shall be marked to indicate the Controlling switch.
Operation of external switches 91 Externally operable switches shall be operated with the left hand As this places the operator more remote from the danger zone.
Equipment
Safety equipment for workers on electrical equipment 92 Every employer shall furnish rubber gloves, shields or other Necessary safety equipment of an approved pattern to all workmen Engaged at work on wires or apparatus operating at a potential of Over 250 volts.
Specifications for rubber gloves and equipment 93 The safe maximum potential established for the use of rubber Gloves and rubber equipment used for protection while working on Energized conductors is 3 000 volts to ground. rubber gloves which Are manufactured and tested for this requirement, namely, 10 000 Volt test with a specified factor of safety of 3 1/3, shall be Used.
Two workers for certain electrical work 94 No work shall be done on any live wire, cable or appliance Carrying more than 600 volts by less than 2 competent and Experienced workmen, both of whom at all times while performing Such work shall be in the same room, chamber or other place where Such work is being done; provided that this section shall not Apply to the fusing of transformers carrying less than 2 400 Volts, where such transformer fuses are accessible without passing Or reaching past cables or appliances. the foregoing regulation Also applies to any work being performed on overhead electric Lines.
Switches for high tension supply services 95 Wherever high tension supply services enter industrial plants, and It is practicable to do so, suitable manually operated Disconnecting switches shall be installed.
Insulating platforms or mats 96 Insulating platforms or mats of adequate size shall be placed in Front of all switches, switchboards, control devices or other Parts connected to circuits operating at more than 150 volts to Ground.
Electrical supply equipment 97 All electrical supply equipment shall be of standard and approved Construction and so installed and maintained as to reduce the life Hazard as far as practicable. all cables, wires, connections, Resistances, etc., shall be situated as not to form any Obstruction to the passageway around switchboards.
Illumination for electrical equipment 98 Adequate and suitable illumination, controlled from a readily Accessible place, shall be provided at all switchboards, fuses, Boxes, starters, control devices around electrical machines, and At other places where workmen may come into proximity to live Parts.
Insulation of ladders 99 No ladders having reinforcing of wire or other conducting material Shall be used in proximity to any electrical wires or equipment.
All ladders which may be used on or near equipment operated at More than 600 volts shall be equipped with feet of insulating Material.
Warning notices 100 Notices reading "danger—high voltage" shall be placed in prominent Positions and maintained in legible condition in proximity to all Electrical equipment operating at over 600 volts to ground, and Which may be accessible to unqualified persons.
Overhead regulations Handling of conductors on live circuit poles 101 On poles carrying live circuits, conductors shall not be pulled Around corners. such conductors shall be pulled up to the corner And made secure before pulling the next section, or all circuits Shall be made dead before pulling.
Two workers for certain electrical work 102 No work shall be permitted to be done on any live wire, cable or Apparatus carrying more than 600 volts by less than 2 competent And experienced workmen, both of whom at all times while Performing such work shall be on the same pole or structure on Which such work is being done; provided that this regulation shall Not apply to the fusing of transformers which are carried beneath The lowest high tension wire.
Protection from falling materials 103 When linemen are at work on poles or other structures located Where workmen may pass and suffer injury from falling tools, Material, etc., a temporary guard, fence or notice shall be placed To prevent or warn such workmen from passing beneath such pole or Structure.
Soundness of pole or structure 104 Before beginning work on any pole or structure, such pole or Structure shall be tested for soundness. when any doubt as to such Soundness exists, the pole or structure shall be effectively guyed Or otherwise supported from falling before changing any wires or Cable thereon.
Retention of guys or supports 105 Guys or supports shall be left in place until workmen are clear And poles are ready to be lowered to the ground.
Maintenance and operation Work in proximity to wires and equipment 106 When painting, cleaning, repairs or any other work is to be Carried out in or around any building, bridge or structure in Proximity to wires or other equipment which are normally isolated By elevation, such wires or parts shall be provided with effective Guards or shall be made dead while the work is being carried out.
Short-circuiting and grounding of line wires 107 When line wires of 600 volts or over are cut at the power station Or substation to allow workmen to work upon them, they shall be Short-circuited and grounded at the station and shall be, in Addition, if the line wires are bare, short circuited and, where Possible, grounded at the place where the work is being done.
Switches for lines or equipment being handled 108 Before workmen are required to work on any line or equipment Which, for safety, must be handled dead, the workman in charge Shall notify the operator to open and tag the switches controlling Same.
Testing devices 109 In all electrical installations having 110 volts or over, approved Testing devices for testing fuses, circuits, etc., shall be kept On hand. banks of lamps are not approved for testing purposes.
Extensions and connectors 110 On all extensions for lamps or other portable equipment, approved Reinforced cords, type s, shall be used. connectors shall be so Arranged that no live parts are exposed when the 2 halves of the Connector are separated.
Sockets on portable cord 111 Sockets for use on portable cord shall have over the shell a Rubber covering of a type approved for hard usage.
Joints
112 Joints shall be neatly made, soldered and covered with rubber tape And friction tape so as to form insulation equivalent to that of The conductor itself.
Lamp sockets 113 Lamp sockets, unless they are so installed as to be out of reach From any grounded surface, shall be of the porcelain or Weatherproof type.
Push buttons 114 All push buttons on cross-the-line starters shall be provided with Some form of locking out feature.
Approved equipment only 115 All electrical equipment, apparatus or appliances used shall be of Approved design and material and shall bear an approval label or Stamp and be provided with a name plate bearing the maker's name And giving the capacity in volts, amperes, cycles, etc.
Qualified worker 116 No workman shall do work for which he is not properly qualified on Or about live equipment or lines, except under the direct Supervision of an experienced and properly qualified person.
Qualified person to oversee work 117 Workmen whose employment incidentally brings them in the Neighbourhood of electrical supply equipment or lines with the Dangers of which they are not familiar shall proceed with their Work only when authorized. they shall then be accompanied by a Properly qualified and authorized person, whose instructions shall Be strictly obeyed.
Hazardous equipment must comply with regulations 118 All wires, cables, poles, electric fixtures or appliances of every Kind or nature being used or operated at the time of the passage Of these regulations, which are liable to cause a hazard to life Or property, shall be changed and made to conform with the Provisions of the regulations.
Machinery
No unauthorized tool or machinery use 119 No workmen shall use any tools, appliances, machinery or equipment Unless authorized to do so.
Machinery repair requirements 120 Any machinery or equipment to be repaired shall be shut down Before such repairs are made. whenever necessary, the power shall Be disconnected and the control device tagged. tags used for this Purpose shall warn against starting of such machinery and shall Bear the name of the person responsible for shutting same down.
All other persons shall be prohibited from starting the equipment.
Cleaning and oiling of machinery in motion 121 The cleaning and oiling of machinery while in motion is prohibited In all places where exposure to contact with moving parts is Involved.
Stopping device for powered machinery 122 Where power driven machinery is used, a stopping device shall be Provided at each machine, within easy reach of the operator.
Stopping devices for machinery 123 All electrically driven machines shall have stopping devices Installed. all machines not individually motor driven shall be Equipped with a loose pulley or a clutch or some other adequate Means of stopping the machine quickly.
Starting devices and controls 124 Starting devices shall be adequately guarded to prevent accidental Starting. starting controls shall be within sight of operator or Be controlled by a suitable signal device. where machines are Operated by treadle, an iron stirrup shall be fastened to the Floor over the treadle, leaving only sufficient room for the Operator's foot between treadle and stirrup.
Guards for cranks and rods 125 Cranks, connecting rods, tail rods or extension piston rods shall Be suitably guarded when exposed to contact.
Counterweights
126 Counterweights shall be provided with substantial safety chains or Cables, or otherwise secured against falling where danger to Workmen is involved.
Fans
127 Fans shall be provided with suitable guards to prevent contact With the moving parts.
Abrasive wheels Hoods, guards, etc.
128 Wheels used for grinding purposes shall be equipped with a hood Connected with an exhaust fan or water system. a guard shall be Provided as a part of the hood construction or in addition to the Hood, which shall be strong enough to withstand the shock of a Bursting wheel. this guard shall be adjusted close to the wheel And extended over the top to a point 30° beyond a vertical line Drawn through the centre of the wheel. the exhaust or water system Is not required on emery wheels which are in general use by Workmen to touch up castings or tools.
Grinding wheel speed 129 The speed of grinding wheels shall not exceed the speed guaranteed By manufacturers.
Flanges on grinding wheels 130 When used on grinding wheels all tapered flanges over 10 inches in Diameter shall be of steel. all other flanges may be of cast iron Or material of equal strength. compression washers shall be placed Between the flanges and wheel.
Protective goggles for emery wheels 131 Suitable goggles, kept close to emery wheels, shall be supplied to And worn by workmen, while working at these wheels, or the wheels Shall be equipped with extension guards with adequate steel frames And shatterproof glass, which shall be kept in proper position Whenever wheels are used. goggles shall be worn at all times by Workmen working at machines where 2 or more wheels are operating, Whether fitted with glass guards or not.
Workrest
132 A substantial workrest shall be used whenever possible. this rest Shall not be below the centre line of the wheel nor farther than 1/8 inch from the cutting face.
Protective goggles for metallic buffing wheels 133 Goggles shall be worn by workmen using metallic buffing wheels.
Transmission machinery and equipment Horizontal shaft protection 134 Any portion of a horizontal shaft which is 7 feet or less from the Floor or working platform shall be guarded on the sides and bottom Or protected by a standard railing ensuring at least 15 inches and Not more than 20 inches horizontal clearance from the nearest Moving part.
When shafts must be encased 135 Vertical or inclined transmission shafting shall be encased to a Height of 7 feet from the floor.
Protection of projecting shaft ends 136 All projecting shaft ends shall be cut off or properly protected With stationary casing.
Collars
137 All revolving collars, including split collars, shall be Cylindrical, and screws or bolts used in collars shall not project Beyond the largest periphery of the collar.
Shaft couplings 138 Shaft coupling shall be so constructed or guarded as to present no Hazard from bolts, nuts, set screws or revolving surfaces.
Friction clutch couplings 139 Friction clutch couplings shall have their operating mechanisms, Where exposed, completely guarded, and friction coupling handles Shall be placed at a safe distance from couplings.
Exposed keys 140 Keys exposed to contact shall be made flush or guarded.
Set screws and bolts 141 Set screws and bolts on revolving parts of machinery shall be Placed flush with collars or shafts, or be properly guarded.
Friction drives, gears and spokes of gears 142 The contact faces of all friction drives, gears and spokes of Gears shall be guarded. the guard of friction drives shall be Arranged to permit of application of lime or other dressing Without removal of guard.
Flywheels and pulleys 143 All sections of flywheels or pulleys which are 7 feet or less from The floor or platform and which are exposed to contact shall be Guarded. flywheels or pulleys which run in pits shall be provided With handrail and toe board around the pit. main or auxiliary Engines shall be completely railed or fenced off so that no Unauthorized person can gain access thereto.
Pulley placement 144 Pulleys shall be so placed as to allow 1 1/2 times the width of The belt between 2 pulleys, or between the pulley and the shaft Hangers, or a hook shall be provided, or a safeguard placed Adjacent to the pulley to prevent the belt from leaving the Pulley.
Pulleys near bearings 145 Pulleys within 24 inches measured horizontally from the nearest Part of the pulley to the centre of a bearing that is not of the "self oiling" type shall, if exposed to contact, be guarded with An approved safeguard placed between the bearing and pulley.
Driven pulleys with no bearings 146 Driven pulleys on line shafts, jack shafts or counter shafting Where there is no bearing between the pulley and the outer end of The shaft shall be provided with approved safeguards to prevent The belt from running off the driven pulley.
Pulleys with counterweights 147 Idler pulleys or tighteners used to tighten belts on pulleys, if Provided with counterweights, shall have counterweights guarded or Enclosed.
Use of damaged or repaired flywheels and pulleys 148 Welded or brazed cast iron flywheels or pulleys shall not be used.
Pulleys or flywheels which have been through a fire shall not Again be used unless examined and approved by an inspector.
Pulleys with cracks or pieces broken out of rims shall not be Used. cast iron flywheels and pulleys shall not be used after Being repaired or reconditioned by welding.
Rim velocity of flywheels and pulleys 149 The rim velocity of cast iron flywheels and pulleys shall not Exceed 5 000 feet per minute.
Belt, rope and chain driven machinery or shafting 150 All belt, rope or chain driven machinery or shafting, and all Secondary belts, ropes or chains, where exposed to contact, shall Be guarded. in all cases the point where the belt, rope or chain Runs on to the pulley, sheave or sprocket, if within 7 feet of the Floor or platform, shall be guarded.
Belts, ropes or chains 151 All horizontal, vertical or inclined belts, ropes or chains Driving machinery or shafting 7 feet or less above the floor or Platform, where exposed to contact, shall be guarded. all overhead Belts, and overhead chains or rope drives, more than 7 feet from The floor or platform, shall be adequately guarded. in all cases The guard shall cover the outer faces of the 2 pulleys or sheaves And extend upward to such a point and be attached in such a way That, in case the belt, chain or rope breaks, the guards will Withstand the whipping force.
Some belts exempt from guarding 152 Horizontal flat belts one inch or less in width and single round Belts 1/2 inch or less in diameter running at any speed, and flat Belts in association with flat or crowned pulleys when 2 inches or Less in width which are free from metal lacings or fasteners and Running not more than 250 feet per minute, are exempted from Guarding.
Vertical and inclined belts 153 Vertical and inclined belts, if not more than 2 1/2 inches wide And running at a speed of less than 1 000 feet per minute and if Free from metal lacings or fastenings may be guarded with a nip Point belt and pulley guard.
Belt tighteners 154 Belt tighteners which control the operation of machines shall be Equipped with a safety lock or stop which will prevent the Application of the tightener to its belt until the lock or stop is Released. a chain or cable shall be attached to all tightener Frames to prevent tightener pulley striking other pulleys or Workmen if belt breaks.
Belt shifters on loose pulleys 155 All loose pulleys shall be furnished with a permanent belt shifter So located as to be within easy reach of the operator. the belt Shifter shall be so constructed (equipped with a locking device Set in notches or other device) as to make it impossible for the Belt to creep from the loose pulley on to the tight pulley.
Belts over 4 inches on cone pulleys 156 All belts over 4 inches in width running on cone pulleys shall be Provided with belt shifters.
Application of dressing to belts 157 Dressing shall not be applied to belts while in motion except at The off-running side.
Out of use belts 158 When a belt is not in use it shall be hung clear of shafting and Pulleys.
Gears, etc. for chain drives 159 All forms of spur gears, pinions, bevel gears, mortise wheels and Sprockets for chain drives, wherever located, shall be strongly And completely encased, or, where this is impracticable, shall Have a band guard provided with side flanges extending inward Beyond the root of the teeth. where there is a spoke hazard the Gears shall be enclosed on the exposed sides.
Drip cups or pans under bearings 160 Where it is necessary for workmen to pass under bearings, said Bearings shall be equipped with drip cups or pans, securely Fastened in position.
Cranes, derricks, hoists and similar structures Construction, erection, maintenance and use 161 All cranes, derricks, hoists and similar equipment shall be Constructed, erected, maintained and used so that no part shall be Stressed beyond its safe working strength.
Safety factors 162 All apparatus shall be designed throughout with not less than the Following factors of safety, under full rated load:
(a) load hook, not less than 10; (b) all gear and hoist shafting, not less than 8; (c) all other parts, not less than 5.
Inspection and maintenance 163 All cranes, derricks and hoists shall be carefully and frequently Inspected and kept in perfect working order. all working parts and Wire rope shall be kept well oiled. any weak members shall be at Once made good.
Repairing overhead cranes Location during repair 164 When a crane is being repaired, it shall be located where the Repair work shall least interfere with the other cranes and with Operations on the floor.
Controllers and switches 165 Before starting repairs, the repairman shall see that all Controllers are thrown in the "off" position, and that main or Emergency switches are open, and one of them shall be locked.
Warning signs and safety stops 166 When a crane is to be repaired, there shall immediately be placed Warning signs or out of order signs on crane and on floor beneath.
If other cranes are operated on the same runway, safety stops Shall be placed at a safe distance.
No workers beneath crane during repair 167 Workmen shall not work on the floor beneath the crane while it is Being repaired.
Platform or canvas under crane 168 When a crane is being repaired, wherever possible, a platform Shall be erected or a canvas stretched underneath the crane.
Rigging
Working load 169 The working load on ropes, chains, slings and fittings shall not Exceed the working strength guaranteed by manufacturers.
Safety factor 170 The factor of safety for rings, hooks, shackles and all other Fittings shall be 50% greater than that of the line.
Inspection
171 Ropes, chains, slings, and fittings shall be inspected thoroughly At regular intervals and when found to have deteriorated to such An extent as to make them unsafe for use they shall be discarded.
Shackle pins 172 A nut, keeper or forelock shall be used with all shackle pins.
Handling wire rope 173 Gloves shall be worn when handling wire rope.
Eyebolts
174 The pull on eyebolt shall always be in line with the bolt.
Spreader bars 175 Spreader bars shall be used when necessary.
No kink, knot or twist 176 A lift shall never be made with a kink, knot or twist in a chain.
Ladders
Lumber used in ladders 177 Lumber used in ladders shall be straight grain, select common, B.c. lumber & shingle manufacturers' grade or better.
Side rails 178 Side rails shall be dressed on all sides, sharp edges eliminated And free from splinters. the minimum size of side rails shall be As follows:
Length of ladder Thickness
Depth
(feet) (inches) (inches) Up to and including 19 1 1/8 2 1/2 Over 19, up to and including 23 1 1/8 2 5/8 Over 23, up to and including 25 1 1/8 2 3/4 Overt 25, up to and including 27 1 1/4 2 3/4 Over 27, up to and including 30 1 1/4 2 7/8 Over 30, up to and including 33 1 5/16 3 Rungs and steps 179 Flat rungs of wooden ladders shall be at least one inch by 2 1/2 Inches and shall be secured by a least 3 screws or wire nails to Each side rail. flat rungs shall be notched into side rails 1/2 Inch at the lower side or fillers shall be inserted between rungs.
Round rungs shall be at least 1 1/4 inches diameter with tenons 1/4 inch less diameter fitting through side rails, secured with a Screw or wire nail through tenon at mid-length. all steps (rungs, Cleats or treads) shall be designed to carry safely a load of 450 Pounds on the centre of the step. a uniform step spacing shall be Used, which shall not exceed 12 inches.
Width between side rails 180 The width between the side rails at the base shall be in no case Less than 12 inches for ladders up to and including 10 feet in Length. for longer ladders this width shall be increased at least 1/4 inch for each additional foot of length.
Extension ladders Construction and dimensions 181 (1)  except when approved by the ministry no extension ladder Shall have more than 3 sections and shall not exceed 60 feet in Length when fully extended. sliding sections shall be equipped With metal shackles and pulleys, shall be raised and lowered by Means of a rope, and each section shall be equipped with 2 Automatic locks of an approved type. frayed or badly worn rope Shall not be used.
(2)  the underside of side rails shall have galvanized wire Nailed into grooves of suitable size and securely fastened at both Ends, except when the ladder is to be used in proximity to Electrical equipment.
(3)  the minimum lap of sections when extended shall not Exceed the following:
Extension up to 38 feet 3 feet overlap Extension up to 44 feet 4 feet overlap Extension up to 60 feet 5 feet overlap Stepladders
Maximum length 182 Portable stepladders over 20 feet in length shall not be used.
Treads and slope of front section 183 Stepladders shall be so constructed that when in the open position The front section shall have a minimum slope of 3 1/2 inches and The back section a minimum slope of 2 inches for each 12 inch Length of side rail. when in position all treads shall be level.
Width between side rails 184 The minimum inside width between side rails at the top step of Stepladders shall be not less than 12 inches, with a spread of at Least one inch for each foot of length of stepladder.
Leg bracing 185 To hold legs securely in proper position stepladders shall be Equipped with metal braces or substantial cords installed at a Distance from bottom of 1/3 of height of stepladder.
Side rail dimensions 186 The side rails of stepladders shall have the following solid cross Section or a section equivalent thereto in strength. the required Thickness provides for the cutting of a gain not over 1/8 inch in Depth and shall be increased when gains of greater depth are used.
Length of side rail Minimum thickness Minimum width (feet) (inches) (inches) Up to and including 10 3/4 2 3/4 Over 10, up to and including 12 3/4 3 Over 12, up to and including 16 3/4 3 1/4 Over 16, up to and including 20 1 3 1/4 Back legs 187 The back legs of all stepladders shall be at least 1 3/4 inches Wide and of the same thickness as side rails. cross rails and Braces shall be not less than 1/2 inch thick and shall be securely Fastened.
Diagonal bracing and cross rails 188 Stepladders 10 feet and less in height shall have a bottom cross Rail and diagonal braces. stepladders over 10 feet in height shall Have bottom and intermediate cross rails and 2 sets of diagonal Bracing. cross rails shall be not less than 4 inches wide and Diagonal braces not less than 2 inches wide.
Reinforcement of steps 189 Stepladders shall be reinforced at each step by a metal tie rod or A metal brace.
Metal parts 190 All metal parts of stepladders shall be malleable iron, wrought Iron or steel.
Care and use of ladders Portable ladders 191 Portable ladders shall be inclined so that the base shall not be More than 1/4 the length of the ladder out from the plumb line of Contact at top, unless the top be securely fastened. side rails Shall have secure footing and the top shall be rigid and have Ample strength to support the applied load. wherever possible, the Top of the ladder shall be securely fastened to prevent movement.
Wide ladders 192 Where it is necessary to install a ladder wide enough to permit Traffic in both directions at the same time, a centre rail shall Be provided. one side of the ladder shall be plainly marked "up" And the other side "down". material shall be increased in size to Take care of increased loading.
Damaged ladders 193 Ladders with broken or missing rungs, or split side rails or with Other defects shall not be used but shall be withdrawn from Service and marked for repair or destruction.
Prohibited ladder forms 194 Ladders made by fastening cleats across a single rail or post Shall not be used, nor shall short ladders be spliced together to Form long sections.
Preventing portable ladders from slipping 195 To prevent portable ladders from slipping, one of the following Methods shall be used:
(a) sharp metal points at feet; (b) non-slip feet; (c) sandbags of sufficient weight; (d) lashing; (e) any other effective means.
Overhead shaft ladders 196 Ladders for use in oiling overhead shafting shall be equipped to Hook over the shafting.
Extension above landings 197 Portable ladders shall extend at least 2 feet above landings, and Side rails of fixed or permanent ladders shall extend at least 3 Feet above landing without rungs.
Clearance back of rungs 198 A continuous clearance space of at least 6 1/2 inches shall be Provided back of rungs of fixed or permanent ladders.
Fastenings of permanent ladders 199 Fastenings of fixed or permanent ladders shall not be more than 10 Feet apart.
Stairways, runways, walks, floors, etc.
Slope, risers, landings, etc.
200 Wherever possible, stairways shall be constructed with a slope of From 30 to 38° from the horizontal with uniform risers between 5 And 8 inches in height and with a minimum tread of 9 1/2 inches.
All landings, treads and stringers shall be of sufficient strength To sustain safely a live load of not less than 100 pounds per Square foot with a factor of safety of 4.
Handrails
201 All stairways having 4 or more risers shall be equipped with Handrails which shall be kept smooth and free from protruding Nails or splinters. where the stairway is not built next to a wall Or partition, rails shall be provided on both sides.
Detour guardrails 202 When a stairway ends in direct proximity to dangerous traffic or Other hazards, detour guardrails shall be installed to protect Workmen against contacting such hazards.
Door must not swing over treads 203 No door shall be installed at the entrance to a stairway so that It is necessary to swing the door over the treads.
Stairs to be kept clean 204 Stairs shall be kept clean and free of material of any kind.
Handrails on edges of open floors, platforms, etc.
205 Standard handrails shall be installed, where practicable, along The edges of every open sided floor, working platform, runway, Walk or balcony which is 4 feet or more above floor or ground Level, and along the edges of all other platforms or openings Where the safety of workmen is involved.
Handrail specifications 206 Standard handrails shall be not less than 42 inches in height, and Shall be provided with a top rail and an intermediate rail spaced Midway between top rail and floor level. railings shall be Constructed in a permanent and substantial manner and shall be Smooth and free from protruding nails, bolts and splinters. all Sharp corners shall be rounded. posts or uprights shall be spaced Not more than 8 feet apart, centre to centre.
Floor openings 207 Floor openings, wherever practicable, shall be protected with Standard handrails and toe boards.
Where danger of falling objects 208 When the work being performed is such that there is a danger of Objects falling into floor openings, the opening between the floor And handrail shall be enclosed with wire mesh, boards or other Suitable material.
Runway and walk specifications 209 Runways and walks shall be of substantial construction. if Possible, overhead runways shall not be less than 20 inches in Width and when more than 4 feet above grade they shall be equipped With a standard handrail. access to these runways shall be in all Cases by means of fixed ladders or stairways. whenever possible, Thoroughfares through basements shall be avoided.
If passage passes over shaft or conveyor 210 If a passage or runway passes over a shaft or conveyor it shall Have substantial handrails.
If passage passes between strands of belt 211 If a passage or runway passes between the strands of a belt, a Substantial covered way with railed sides or other adequate guard Shall be provided.
Where toe boards required 212 All runways and platforms more than 10 feet high shall be equipped With toe boards. runways and platforms of any height, when over Machinery or working areas, shall be equipped with toe boards.
Scaffolds
Strength of scaffolds 213 Scaffolds shall, in particular, receive the most careful attention As to strength and rigidity and shall be constructed and Maintained in a safe and proper manner, capable of sustaining a Uniformly distributed load of a minimum of 30 pounds per square Foot.
Erection and dismantling 214 Scaffolds shall be erected and taken down by experienced men only.
Lumber
215 All lumber used in scaffolds shall be of selected common or better Grade, according to the grading standards of the b.c. lumber and Shingle manufacturers' association.
Damaged scaffold 216 Any scaffold damaged or weakened from any cause shall be Immediately repaired, and workmen shall not be allowed to use it Until repairs have been completed.
Employer's duty 217 Every employer shall take steps to ensure that scaffolds to be Used by his workmen are constructed in accordance with the Regulations. this applies whether scaffolds have been erected by His workmen or not.
First aid Supplies and equipment 218 Every employer shall provide and maintain first aid supplies and Equipment in compliance with the "minimum first aid service Requirements" issued by the workers' compensation board.
Welding and burning Generators
Construction, use and markings 219 Acetylene generators shall be of approved construction and shall Not be used at rates producing cubic feet of acetylene per hour in Excess of rates set out by manufacturers of the generators.
Manufacturer's name and address, together with type and number of The generator, shall be plainly marked on same, as shall also be The amount of carbide for a single charge.
Operation
220 Generators shall be operated by a responsible workman familiar With the proper operation and maintenance of this equipment.
Portable generators 221 Portable generators shall not be used in confined spaces or where Ventilation is inadequate. they shall be cleaned and recharged and Gas mixture blown off outside. they shall not be cleaned or Recharged in the vicinity of any open flame, welder's arc or other Source of ignition.
Charged portable generators — limitation on movement 222 When charged with carbide, portable generators shall not be moved By crane or derrick.
Storage
223 When not in use, portable generators shall not be stored in any Room in which open lights or fires are used unless free of carbide And thoroughly purged of gas. storage rooms shall be thoroughly Ventilated.
Restrictions on placement of stationary generators 224 Stationary generators shall not be located in a room where welding Is being done or where an open flame is used. housing shall be Well ventilated, of fireproof construction. a sign reading "calcium carbide — do not use water in case of fire" shall be Posted in a conspicuous place.
Stationary generator rooms 225 Lighting for stationary generator rooms shall be from stationary Lights, enclosed in vapour proof covers, with rigid conduit.
Switches and other electrical apparatus shall be located outside The room. smoking in generator rooms is prohibited.
Room heating for stationary generators 226 During freezing weather the building for stationary generators Shall be heated by steam heat, hot water or other indirect means.
Repair instructions 227 Whenever repairs are to be made or the generator is to be charged Or carbide is to be removed, the water chamber shall be full During such operations to avoid the danger of explosive mixtures Of air and gas within the water space and also to prevent dropping Fresh carbide into insufficient water. previous to making repairs Involving welding, soldering or any hot work or operation liable To produce a spark, all acetylene shall be expelled by completely Flooding the generator shell with water and disconnecting the Generator from the piping system. the water shall be maintained at As high a level as work permits. where necessary to avoid wetting Same, the carbide charge and feed mechanism shall be completely Removed.
Torches and hose Regulator valves 228 The regulator valves used on acetylene, oxygen or other gas Cylinders shall be regularly examined and kept in repair by a Competent person.
Use of regulators or automatic reducing valves 229 Regulators or automatic reducing valves shall only be used for the Gas for which they are intended.
Leaking regulators 230 Leaking regulators shall not be used.
Leaking valves 231 A torch with leaking valves shall not be used. care shall be taken To keep all valves tight and in good order.
Inspection of hoses 232 All hoses used for burning and welding shall be inspected at Frequent intervals to determine their condition. if the condition Of the hose is in doubt, it shall be submerged in water and an air Pressure 50% above the working pressure applied. if air bubbles Appear or if the hose is found to be in an unsafe condition, it Shall be discarded or be repaired and tested again before it is Used.
Only one gas passage 233 A single hose having more than one gas passage, a wall failure of Which would permit the flow of one gas into the other gas passage, Shall not be used.
Cylinders
Handling of gas cylinders 234 Gas cylinders shall not be handled in slings. when cylinders are Transported on a truck they shall be held securely in position.
Cylinders shall not be dropped or permitted to strike each other Violently.
Safety precautions 235 (1)  cylinder valves shall be closed when work is finished And when cylinders are empty. cylinder valve protection covers Shall be kept in position at all times that the cylinder is not Connected for use.
(2)  every precaution shall be taken to prevent sparks or Flames from welding or cutting torches coming in contact with Cylinders, regulators and hoses, and all charged gas cylinders Shall be protected against undue absorption of heat from the sun, Forges or open flames.
Section 77 applies 236 Cylinders shall conform to section 77 of these regulations.
Use of acetylene and oxygen Substitution of oxygen for compressed air 237 Warning — a serious accident may easily result if oxygen is used As a substitute for compressed air. never use oxygen in pneumatic Tools, in oil preheating burners, to start internal combustion Engines, to blow out pipelines, to "dust" clothing or work, to Create pressure or for ventilation.
Burning
Protective clothing 238 Suitable goggles and gloves shall be worn by burners. ragged or Oil soaked clothes shall not be worn.
Ventilation or respirators in case of fumes 239 Materials giving off fumes shall not be burned without sufficient Ventilation, unless proper respirators are worn by all workmen Exposed to fumes.
Overhead burners 240 Every precaution shall be taken to protect workmen where burners Are working above them. this situation shall be avoided whenever Possible.
No oil or grease near oxygen cylinders 241 Oil or grease shall never be permitted to come in contact with Oxygen cylinders, valves, regulators or other fittings. oxygen Cylinders and apparatus shall not be handled with oily hands or Greasy gloves.
Help for workers in confined spaces 242 Necessary help or supervision shall be provided for burners and Welders when working in a confined or cramped space.
Arc welding Equipment and wiring 243 All electric arc welding equipment shall be of an approved type And wiring shall conform to the Electrical safety act Of the province of british columbia and regulations made Thereunder.
Protective screens, helmets and goggles 244 Suitable protecting screens, at least 7 feet high, shall be Installed in machine and welding shops for the protection of Workmen who work or come near the glowing parts of arc welders, Arc furnaces and similar apparatus. suitable portable screens Shall be placed around the arc when arc welding is carried on in Other locations. welders and helpers shall be provided with and Wear adequate helmets or goggles when exposed to glare.
Ventilation in confined spaces 245 Adequate ventilation shall be provided whenever welding is carried On in confined spaces.
Flash protection 246 A welder shall do no welding where other workmen may receive the Flash of the arc unless such workmen are protected by proper Goggles or protective screen is placed around the arc. these Screens shall be provided to welders as part of their equipment.
Hand and arm protection 247 Leather gauntlet gloves shall be worn when welding and, when doing Overhead work, arms shall be protected.
Wire stubs 248 Wire stubs shall not be left lying around but shall be placed in a Receptacle which shall be provided for the purpose.
Eye protection 249 The eyes shall be protected by the use of flip front helmets or by Goggles when chipping or cleaning welds.
Electrode holders 250 Electrode holders shall be made dead or protected against Grounding at all times when not welding.
Welding machines 251 Welding machines shall be shut down at all rest periods, ends of Shifts and when changing the lines to new locations.
Starting and stopping machines 252 Whenever machines are not started or stopped by operators, they Shall be advised before same is done.
Woodworking machinery Plant layout Machinery to be secured to floors or benches 253 Woodworking machinery shall be firmly secured to substantial Floors or foundations. small units shall be secured to benches, Tables or stands of adequate strength, and so designed as to Prevent overturning or unintentional movement. this regulation Does not apply to portable hand tools.
Traffic aisles 254 Aisles for one way traffic shall be not less than the width of the Widest vehicles or load plus 3 feet. for 2 way traffic the minimum Width of aisles shall be not less than twice the width of the Widest vehicle or load plus 3 feet. lines shall be painted on the Floor or some similar method be employed to mark aisleways.
Working space 255 Machines shall be so located that there will be sufficient space In which to handle material with the least possible interference From or to workmen or machines. machines shall be so placed that It will be unnecessary for any one to stand in or so near an aisle As to be liable to hazard.
Clearances around machines 256 In order for each operator to have sufficient space in which to Handle the material with the least possible interference from or To other workmen or machines, the following conditions shall be Maintained:
(a) Rip and crosscut bench or table saws — the minimum distance or clearance on each working side of the Saw table shall be equal to 3 feet more than the longest material Handled.
(b) Band saws — the minimum distance or clearance on 3 sides of the table shall Be equal to a circle with the point of operation of the saw blade As a centre and a radius equal to twice the diameter of the band Wheels.
(c) Jointers
— the minimum distance or clearance shall be at least 3 feet Greater than the length of the longest material worked on the Machine.
(d) Shapers
— the minimum distance or clearance shall be at least 3 feet Greater than the longest dimension of the material worked on the Machine. it is vitally important to both safety and production to Protect shaper operators from interference. to this end, shaper Machines shall be so set that the operator faces the aisle and is Protected at the back by a partition or railing.
Exhaust system 257 Planers, stickers, shapers, sanders and surfacers shall be Connected with an adequate exhaust system to take away shavings And dust.
Guards
Installation and removal 258 Guards shall be installed wherever possible and their use Enforced. if special operations require the removal of the guard, It shall be immediately replaced upon the completion of the work Which required its removal. no workman shall be permitted to Remove a guard or to operate the machine without the guard except With the consent of the foreman in each specific instance.
Metal guards — thickness 259 When guards are constructed of sheet metal, the material used Shall be not less than 1/16 inch in thickness, and if cast iron is Used it shall be not less than 3/16 inch in thickness.
Where exhaust system used 260 Where an exhaust system is used, the guard shall form part or all Of the exhaust hood and shall be constructed of metal of a Thickness not less than the above.
Hand fed planers and jointers — cylindrical cutting head 261 Each hand fed planer and jointer with horizontal head shall be Equipped with a cylindrical cutting head.
Hand fed jointers — automatic guard 262 Each hand fed jointer with a horizontal cutting head shall have an Automatic guard which will cover all the section of the head on The working side of the fence or gauge, and a guard which covers The head back of the fence.
Tenoning machines 263 Each tenoning machine shall have all cutting heads and saws, if Used, covered by guards. these guards shall cover at least the Unused part of the periphery of the cutting head.
Hand fed tenoning machines 264 Hand fed tenoning machines shall be provided with a clamping or "hold down" device to help the operator to hold the material being Cut.
Boring bits 265 Boring bits shall be provided with a guard that will enclose all Portions of the bit and chuck above the material being worked.
Universal joints 266 Universal joints on spindles of boring machines shall be Completely enclosed to prevent injury to the operator.
Chain mortisers 267 On chain mortisers the top of the cutting chain and driving Mechanism shall be enclosed.
Cutting heads — wood shaper, hand fed panel raiser, etc 268 The cutting heads of each wood shaper, hand fed panel raiser or Other similar machines not automatically fed shall be enclosed With a cage or adjustable guard, so designed as to keep the Operator's hands away from the cutting edge. the diameter of Circular shaper guards shall be not less than the greatest Diameter of the cutter. cylindrical heads shall be used wherever The nature of the work will permit. templates, jigs and fixtures Which will remove the operator's hands from the point of operation Shall be used wherever the nature of the work will permit.
Cutting heads — planing, moulding, etc. machines 269 Each planing, moulding, sticking and matching machine shall have All cutting heads and saws, if used, covered by metal guards.
Cutting heads — lathes 270 Each profile and swing head lathe shall have all cutting heads Covered by a metal guard.
Drum sanding machine 271 Each drum sanding machine shall have an exhaust hood so arranged As to enclose the revolving drum, except such portion of the drum Above the table, if table is used, as may be necessary for the Application of the material to be finished.
Belt sanding machine 272 Each belt sanding machine shall have both pulleys enclosed in such A manner as to guard the points where the sanding belt runs onto The pulleys. the unused run of the sanding belt shall be enclosed.
Disk sanding machine 273 Each disk sanding machine shall have the exhaust hood or other Guard, if no exhaust system is required, so arranged as to enclose The revolving disk, except such portion of the disk above the Table, if table is used, as may be necessary for the application Of the material to be finished.
Veneer clippers 274 Veneer clippers shall have automatic feed or shall be provided With a guard which will make it impossible to place a finger or Fingers under the knife while feeding stock. the rear of each Clipper shall be guarded to prevent any portion of the hand being Placed under the knife while removing clipped stock.
Feed rolls 275 All feed rolls shall be protected with a semicylindrical guard to Prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the In-running rolls at any point. the guard shall be constructed of Heavy material, preferably metal, and firmly secured to the frame Carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any thickness Of stock. the bottom of the guard should come down to within 3/8 Inch of a plane formed by the bottom or contact face of the feed Roll where it touches the stock.
Operation
Maintenance of saws 276 Dull, badly set, improperly filed or improperly tensioned saws Shall be immediately removed from service as soon as they begin to Cause the material to stick, jam or kick back when it is fed to The saw at normal speed. saws to which gum has adhered on the Sides shall be immediately cleaned.
Knives and cutting heads 277 All knives and cutting heads of woodworking machines shall be kept Sharp, properly adjusted and firmly secured. where 2 or more Knives are used in one head they shall be properly balanced.
Bearings
278 Bearings shall be kept free from lost motion and shall be well Lubricated.
Arbors of circular saws 279 Arbors of all circular saws shall be free from play.
Push sticks 280 Push sticks shall be used for pushing stock through rip saws and Jointers not equipped with self feeding devices.
Operating treadles 281 Each operating treadle shall be covered by an inverted u-shaped Metal guard, fastened to the floor, of adequate size to prevent Tripping.
Kick back prevention 282 It is important in the location of a rip saw to be sure that no Workman is regularly working in line with the saw where he might Be hit by material in case of a kick back. if it is necessary to Locate a machine in such a position, a heavy metal or plank Barricade shall be erected to protect the workman.
Cutting narrow strips on circular rip saws 283 In order to use the hoodguard effectively on circular rip saws When cutting narrow strips, a fillister piece shall be used. this Shall be made of wood about 2 inches wide. it shall be about 3/4 Inch thick or slightly thinner than the thickness of the material Being cut. it shall be provided with cleats or brackets at the Ends so that it will either fit down over the front and back ends Of table or can be quickly attached to the gauge or fence.
Jigs and fixtures 284 Special consideration shall be given to the use of jigs or Fixtures when cutting irregular pieces or oblique angles. in a Production shop which uses jigs and fixtures, definite space Either at the saw or in a storeroom shall be provided for storing These fixtures.
Glue
285 Rubber gloves, other necessary protective equipment and proper Washing facilities with non-caustic soap shall be provided and Used by all workmen handling glue. glue spreaders shall be Enclosed on the in-running side, leaving only sufficient space to Permit the stock to enter the rolls.
Saws
Speed
286 Speed of saws shall not exceed that recommended by the Manufacturers.
Circular saws Guards and hoods 287 (1)  for all circular saws where conditions are such that There is a possibility of contact with the portion of the saw Either beneath or behind the table, that portion of the saw shall Be covered with a guard that shall be so arranged as to prevent Accidental contact with the saw.
(2)  the hood and mounting shall be so arranged that the hood Will automatically adjust itself to the thickness of and remain in Contact with the material being cut, but it shall not offer any Considerable resistance to insertion of material to saw or of Passage of material being sawed. the hood shall be made of Adequate strength to resist blows and strains incidental to Reasonable operation, adjusting and handling, and shall be so Designed as to protect the operator from flying splinters and Broken saw teeth. the hood shall be so made that the operator can See his line of cut when he is in proper position to feed the saw.
(3)  the hood shall be so mounted to ensure its operation to Be positive, reliable and in true alignment with the saw; and the Mounting shall be adequate in strength to resist any reasonable Side thrust or other forces tending to throw it out of line.
Kick back prevention 288 Whenever possible, each circular saw shall be provided with one or More non-kick back fingers or dogs mounted on the hood and so Located as to oppose the thrust or tendency of the saw to pick up The material or to throw it back toward the operator. they shall Be designed to provide adequate holding power for all thicknesses Of materials being cut.
Guards or hoods on feed rolls 289 Feed rolls shall be guarded by a hood or semicylindrical guard to Prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the In-running rolls at any point. the guard shall be fastened to the Frame carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any Thickness of stock.
Spreader
290 (1)  each hand fed circular rip saw shall be furnished with a Spreader to prevent material from squeezing the saw or being Thrown back on the operator. the spreader will be made of saw Steel or tool steel, or its equivalent, that has been hardened, Tempered and ground to gauge so that it is thinner than the saw Kerf but thicker than the saw blade. it shall be of sufficient Width to provide adequate stiffness or rigidity to resist any Reasonable side thrust or blow tending to bend or throw it out of Position. the spreader will be so attached as to remain in true Alignment with the saw even when either the saw or table is tilted And shall be so placed that there is not more than 1/2 inch space Between the spreader and the back of the saw when the largest saw Is mounted in the machine.
(2)  the provision of a spreader in connection with grooving, Dadoing or rabbetting is not required. on the completion of such Operations, the spreader shall be immediately replaced.
Band saws Band saws 291 (1)  all portions of the saw blade of band saws and band Resaws shall be enclosed or guarded, except the working side of The blade between the guide rolls and the table. band saw wheels Shall be fully encased.
(2)  the outside periphery of the enclosure shall be solid.
The front and back of band wheels shall be either enclosed by Solid material or by wire mesh or perforated metal. such mesh or Perforated metal shall be not less than 0.037 inch (u.s. gauge no.
20) and the opening shall be not greater than 3/8 inch. solid Material used for this purpose shall be of an equivalent strength And firmness.
(3)  the guard for the portion of the blade between the Sliding guide and the upper saw wheel guard shall either enclose The saw blade or protect the saw at the front and both sides. this Portion of the guard shall be self adjusting to raise and lower With the guide. the upper wheel guard shall be made to conform to The travel of the saw on the wheel and the top member of the guard Shall have at least a 2 inch clearance outside the saw and be Lined with smooth material, preferably metal.
Cutoff saws Return device 292 Each swing cutoff saw shall be provided with an effective device To return the saw automatically to the back of the table when Released at any point of its travel. such device shall not depend For its proper functioning upon any fibre rope, cord or spring. if There is a counterweight, the bolts supporting the bar and Counterweight shall be provided with cotter pins; and the Counterweight shall be prevented from dropping by either a bolt Passing through both the bar and counterweight, or a bolt put Through the extreme end of the bar, or, where the counterweight Does not encircle the bar, a safety chain attached to it.
Limit chains 293 Each swing saw shall be provided with limit chains or other Equally effective device to prevent the saw from swinging beyond The front or back edges of the table, or beyond a forward position Where the gullets of the lowest saw teeth will rise above the Table top.
Rebound prevention 294 When considered necessary, a latch shall be provided to catch and Retain the saw at the rear of the table to prevent its rebounding.
Operator position 295 Operators of swing cutoff saws shall take such a position that no Part of their body is in line with the saw. the operating handle Shall be on the side of the saw from which the material is fed and Shall be operated by the hand closest to the saw.
Guard extension 296 Guards protecting belt drives of swing saws shall extend 1/2 inch Below the saw mandrel pulley.
Jump saw — hood 297 Inverted swing cutoff (jump) saws shall be provided with a hood That will cover the part of the saw that protrudes above the Material being cut.
Jump saw — guard and stop 298 Jump saws shall be guarded below the top of the roll and a stop Shall be provided to prevent any timber being thrown off the live Roll case and on to the carriage track.
Jump saw — safety sign and safeguard 299 A conspicuous safety sign and an approved safeguard shall be Placed over the jump saw to prevent anyone stepping over the saw.
Trimmer saws Guards
300 A guard shall be provided in front of all trimmer saws unless the Method of control is such that no workman is required to stand in Direct line with any saw while it is cutting, and in the case of Overhead trimmers, where the duties of workmen require them to Stand in the rear of the trimmer table, a guard shall be provided In the rear of the saw.
Worn down shingle saws 301 Shingle saws used as trimmer saws shall be discarded when they are Worn down so that there is less than one inch between gullet and The outside rows of collar holes.
Portable saws Portable power driven saws 302 All portable power driven saws shall be equipped with guards which Will automatically adjust themselves to the work when in use, so That none of the teeth are exposed to contact above the work; and When withdrawn from the work the guard shall completely cover the Saw to the depth of the teeth.
Fuel wood saws 303 Fuel wood saws shall be provided with approved safeguards and Operated in accordance with the principles governing the operation Of similar saws as outlined in these regulations.
Gasoline drag saws 304 Gasoline drag saws shall be equipped with a clutch, shall be kept In good operating condition, and have gears and frictions guarded.
Wobble saws No wedges between saw disk and collar 305 The practice of inserting wedges between the saw disk and the Collar to form what is commonly known as a "wobble saw" shall not Be permitted.
Cracks in saws Band saw — crack depth less than 1/10 width of saw 306 Any band saw found to have developed a crack, the depth of which Is not greater than 1/10 the width of the saw, shall be Discontinued from service unless development of the crack is Arrested by centre punching or other effective means.
Band saw — crack depth greater than 1/10 width of saw 307 Any band saw found to have developed a crack, the depth of which Is greater than 1/10 the width of the saw, shall be discarded Unless the width is so reduced as to eliminate the crack or unless The cracked section is replaced. butt welding of band saws in Place of the present method of brazing will not be acceptable Unless done by a recognized specialist approved by the ministry.
Circular saw — crack more than 1/2 inch deep 308 Any circular saw found to have developed a crack more than 1/2 Inch deep shall be discontinued from service unless development of The crack is arrested by centre punching or drilling at the inner End of the crack, or by other effective and reliable means, and The tension of the saw corrected, or unless the diameter is so Reduced as to eliminate the crack.
Circular saw — crack more than 2 inches deep 309 Any circular saw that is found to have developed a crack more than 2 inches deep shall be discarded unless the diameter is so reduced As to eliminate the crack and the tension is corrected.
Welding of cracks 310 Unless welding of cracks is done by a person recognized as a Specialist in such work, welding will not be considered as an Effective means of arresting cracks. welding of cracks deeper than 10% of diameter will not be allowed.
Laundries
Guarding of shafts, pulleys, belts and gears 311 All shafts, pulleys, belts and gears shall be guarded in Accordance with the general regulations.
Ventilation
312 All laundry washrooms and rooms in which flat work ironers are Operated shall be provided with adequate means of ventilation Which will clear such rooms of excessive heat or steam.
Floors
313 The floors of all rooms where washing operations are carried on Shall be so drained that there is no measurable depth of water Where workmen must stand while working.
Washers
314 Washers shall be provided with a device that will prevent the Inside barrel from turning while the outside drum door is open.
Extractors
315 Every extractor shall be provided with a device that will prevent Power being applied before the lid or cover is closed.
Tumblers
316 Tumblers shall be provided with a device so arranged in connection With the opening in the tumbling barrel and the driving mechanism As to prevent the barrel from moving while the door is open. the Barrel shall be enclosed or guarded to prevent contact.
Flat work ironers — feed rolls 317 Feed rolls of flat work ironers shall be provided with a bar Across the front so arranged that the striking of the bar by the Hand of the operator will stop the machine, or the rolls shall be Provided with a fixed rod that will prevent the hands entering the Rolls.
Flat work ironers — pressure rolls 318 Pressure rolls of flat work ironers shall be covered, guarded or So located that a workman cannot reach into them.
Press type ironers 319 Press type ironers shall be provided with an automatic device Which will prevent the application of injurious pressure if the Fingers of the operator are between the bed and the pressure head, Or a 2 handed device shall be provided which will require removal Of both hands of the operator from the danger zone at the time of Tripping the machine.
Roller type body ironers 320 The rolls of roller type body ironers shall be provided with a Fixed bar across the front which will prevent the hands from Entering the rolls. the hot roll shall be covered in such a way That the operator cannot come in contact with it.
Steam pipes 321 All steam pipes, where exposed to contact, shall be covered to Within 7 feet from the floor.
Painting
Scaffolds, swinging, staging, rigging, etc 322 All scaffolds, swinging, staging, rigging, etc., shall conform to The general regulations.
Protective clothing 323 Suitable clothing shall be worn to protect painters from the Paint.
Food
324 Lunches shall not be kept with working clothes, and food shall not Be brought within 25 feet of spray painting.
Ventilation
325 Ventilation shall be provided while painting is carried on in a Confined space.
Respirators
326 Suitable respirators shall be provided by employers and worn by Workmen while spray painting.
Protective cream; washing facilities 327 Protective cream shall be available to all painters, and adequate Washing facilities shall be provided.
Air contamination 328 Painters shall not work where the paint will contaminate the air Breathed by other workmen.
Protection from acid 329 When acid is used in building washing, goggles, rubber gloves, Rubber suits or other suitable protective equipment shall be worn By the building washer.
Some paints must not be sprayed 330 Paints which contain materials injurious to exposed parts of a Workman's body shall not be applied by spray gun.
1.
Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by Certificate, subject to approval of the lieutenant governor in Council (see r.s.b.c. 1948-285-7), since july 8, 1976, Regulation made by authority of minister only.
[provisions of the Railway act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these Regulations: section 271]