"point in time" regulation content Court rules act Supreme court rules B.c. reg. 221/90 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 168/2009, effective july 1, 2010.
B.c. reg. 221/90 O.c. 1039/90 Effective september 1, 1990 Court rules act Supreme court rules Rule 1 — citation, application and interpretation Citation
(1) These rules may be cited as the rules of court.
Idem
(2) A group of rules having the same unbracketed numeral may be cited As "rule" followed by the numeral, for example, "rule 1" means Rule 1 (1) to 1 (15), inclusive.
Idem
(3) A rule or part of a rule may be cited as "rule" followed by the Number, subrule, paragraph or clause of the rule cited, for Example, "rule 15 (5) (a) (i)" means clause (i) of paragraph (a) Of subrule (5) of rule 15.
Application
(4) These rules govern every proceeding in the supreme court except Where an enactment otherwise provides.
Object of rules (5) The object of these rules is to secure the just, speedy and Inexpensive determination of every proceeding on its merits.
Interpretation
(6) Except where a contrary intention appears, the Interpretation act And the interpretation section of the Supreme court act Apply to these rules.
Titles and headings (7) The titles and headings of these rules are for convenience only And are not intended as a guide to construction.
Definitions
(8) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "act" Means the Supreme court act ; "action" Means a proceeding commenced by writ of summons; "court" Means the supreme court of british columbia and, where a master Has jurisdiction, includes a master of the supreme court; "defendant" Includes a defendant by way of counterclaim; "document" Has an extended meaning and includes a photograph, film, recording Of sound, any record of a permanent or semi-permanent character And any information recorded or stored by means of any device; "file" Means file in the registry; "matrimonial action" Means an action under the Divorce and matrimonial causes act Reprinted as chapter 118, r.s.b.c. 1960, or under the Family relations act ; "order" Includes a judgment and a decree; "originating application" Means a proceeding commenced by petition or praecipe; "originating process" Means a writ of summons, petition, third party notice or any Document which commences a proceeding or adds a new party to a Proceeding;
"parties of record" Means all parties who have commenced proceedings or have appeared Thereto or filed a statement of defence to a third party notice or Filed an answer or answer and counter-petition in a divorce Proceeding;
"petition" Includes a counter-petition, but does not include a petition for Divorce;
"petitioner" Means a person who commences a proceeding by petition or a Petition for divorce; "plaintiff" Means a person who commences an action and includes a plaintiff by Way of counterclaim; "pleading" Includes a statement of claim, statement of defence, reply, Counterclaim, statement of defence to counterclaim, third party Notice, statement of defence to third party notice, and in a Divorce proceeding, includes a petition for divorce, an answer and An answer and counter-petition; "proceeding" Means an action, suit, cause, matter, appeal or originating Application and includes a proceeding under the Divorce act, 1985 (canada); "receiver" Includes receiver-manager; "registrar" Includes the district registrar or deputy district registrar in Whose registry the proceeding was commenced or is pending; "registry" Means the office of the court in which the proceeding was Commenced or is pending; "respondent" Means a person who is required by these rules to be served with a Petition;
"special referee" Means any person, other than a master or registrar, appointed by The court under these rules or under an enactment to hold an Assessment, inquiry or accounting; "writ of execution" Includes a writ of seizure and sale, sequestration, possession or Delivery and any subsequent writ that issues to give effect to These writs, and also includes a warrant or other process of Execution issued out of any court in the province having Jurisdiction to grant and issue that process.
Transition
(9) Unless the court otherwise orders, all proceedings, whenever Commenced, shall be governed by these rules.
Idem
(10) The court may order that a proceeding, or a step in a proceeding, Be continued and concluded under the rules in force at the time of Its commencement.
Waiver of rule by agreement (11) Upon application and if all parties to a proceeding agree, the Court may order that any provision of these rules does not apply To the proceeding.
Orders on terms and conditions (12) When making an order under these rules the court may impose terms And conditions and give directions as it thinks just.
Petitions and applications (13) Where an enactment authorizes an application to the court or to a Judge of the court, and, whether or not the enactment provides for The mode of application, the application shall be (a) By originating application under rule 10, or (b) If the application is interlocutory, by interlocutory application Under rule 44.
Enactments of canada (14) Subrule (13) does not apply where a particular mode of application Is required by an enactment of canada.
Mutatis mutandis (15) Where an enactment provides that another enactment applies, it Applies with the necessary changes and so far as it is applicable.
Rule 2 — effect of non-compliance Non-compliance with rules (1) Unless the court otherwise orders, a failure to comply with these Rules shall be treated as an irregularity and does not nullify a Proceeding, a step taken or any document or order made in the Proceeding.
Idem
(2) Subject to subrules (3) and (41, where there has been a failure to Comply with these rules, the court may (a) Set aside a proceeding, either wholly or in part, (b) Set aside any step taken in the proceeding, or a document or order Made in the proceeding, (c) Allow an amendment to be made under rule 24, (d) Dismiss the proceeding or strike out the statement of defence and Grant judgment, or (e) Make any other order it thinks just.
Idem
(3) The court shall not wholly set aside a proceeding on the ground That it was required to be commenced by an originating process Other than the one employed.
Application to set aside for irregularity (4) An application for an order under subrule (2) (a), (b) or (d) Shall not be granted unless it is made within a reasonable time, And the application is made before the party applying has taken a Fresh step after knowledge of the irregularity.
Consequences of certain non-compliance (5) Where a person, contrary to these rules and without lawful excuse, (a) Refuses or neglects to obey a subpoena or to attend at the time And place appointed for his or her examination for discovery, (b) Refuses to be sworn or to affirm or to answer any question put to Him or her, (c) Refuses or neglects to produce or permit to be inspected any Document or other property, (d) Refuses or neglects to answer interrogatories or to make discovery Of documents, or (e) Refuses or neglects to appear for or submit to a medical Examination,
Then
(f) Where the person is the plaintiff, petitioner or a present officer Of a corporate plaintiff or petitioner, or a partner in or manager Of a partnership plaintiff or petitioner, the court may dismiss The proceeding, and (g) Where the person is the defendant, respondent or a third party, or A present officer of a corporate defendant, respondent or third Party, or a partner in or manager of a partnership defendant, Respondent or third party, the court may order the proceeding to Continue as if no appearance had been entered or no defence had Been filed.
Idem
(6) Where a person, without lawful excuse, refuses or neglects to Comply with a direction of the court, the court may make an order Under subrule (5) (f) or (g).
Dismissal for want of prosecution (7) If upon application by a party it appears to the court that there Is want of prosecution in a proceeding, the court may order that The proceeding be dismissed.
Rule 3 — time Computation of time (1) Unless a contrary intention otherwise appears, the computation of Time under these rules or in an order of the court is governed by The following provisions:
(a) If a period of less than 7 days is prescribed by these rules or The order, holidays shall not be counted; (b) Service or delivery of documents effected after 4 o'clock in the Afternoon shall be deemed to have been effected on the next day That is not a holiday.
Extending or shortening time (2) The court may extend or shorten any period of time provided for in These rules or in an order of the court, notwithstanding that the Application for the extension or the order granting the extension Is made after the period of time has expired.
Idem
(3) The period fixed by these rules or an order for serving, Delivering, filing or amending a pleading or other document may be Extended by consent.
Notice of intention to proceed after delay of one year (4) In a proceeding where judgment has not been obtained and no step Has been taken for one year, no party shall proceed until (a) The expiration of 28 days after service of notice of that party's Intention to proceed on all other parties of record, and (b) A copy of the notice and proof of its service has been filed.
Want of prosecution (5) Notwithstanding this rule, a defendant or respondent may apply to Have a proceeding dismissed for want of prosecution without Serving notice of intention to proceed.
Time for attendance on master, etc.
(6) Attendance on an appointment before a master, registrar, official Reporter or special referee within 1/2 hour following the time Fixed for the appointment is a sufficient attendance.
Rule 4 — forms and documents Forms
(1) The forms in appendix a shall be used where applicable with Variations as the circumstances of the proceeding require.
Documents
(2) Unless the nature of the document renders it impractical, every Document prepared for use in the court shall be in the english Language, legibly printed, typewritten, written or reproduced on 8 1/2 inch x 11 inch durable white paper or durable off-white Recycled paper.
Idem
(3) Transcripts of oral evidence shall conform to subrule (2).
Style of proceeding (4) A document prepared for use in a proceeding shall be headed with The style and number of the proceeding, but in a document, other Than an order or a document that commences a proceeding, where There is more than one party in a class, the style of proceeding May be abbreviated to show the name of the first party in that Class, followed by the words "and others".
Signature and dating (5) A document prepared for use in a proceeding shall be signed and Dated by the party, or by or for the party's solicitor.
Rule 5 — multiple claims and parties Multiple claims (1) Subject to subrule (6), a person, whether claiming in the same or Different capacities, may join several claims in the same Proceeding.
Multiple parties (2) Subject to subrule (6), a proceeding may be commenced by or Against 2 or more persons where (a) If separate proceedings were brought by or against each of them, a Common question of law or fact would arise in all the proceedings, Or
(b) A right to relief claimed in the proceedings, whether it is joint, Several or alternative, is in respect of or arises out of the same Transaction or series of transactions, or (c) The court grants leave to do so.
Idem
(3) Subject to any enactment or these rules or unless the court Otherwise orders, a plaintiff or petitioner who claims relief to Which any other person is jointly entitled shall join as parties To the proceeding all persons so entitled, and any of them who do Not consent to be joined as a plaintiff or petitioner shall be Made a defendant or respondent.
Idem
(4) Where relief is claimed against a person who is jointly liable With some other person, the other person need not be made a party To the proceeding; but where persons may be jointly, but not Severally, liable and relief is claimed against some but not all Of these persons in a proceeding, the court may stay the Proceeding until the other persons who may be liable are added as Parties.
Idem
(5) It is not necessary that every party be interested in all the Relief sought in a proceeding, but the court may order that a Party be compensated for being required to attend, or be relieved From attending, a part of a trial or hearing in which that party Has no interest.
Separation
(6) Where a joinder of several claims or parties in a proceeding may Unduly complicate or delay the trial or hearing of the proceeding Or is otherwise inconvenient, the court may order separate trials Or hearings or make any other order it thinks just.
Idem
(7) Where a counterclaim or a third party proceeding ought to be Disposed of by a separate proceeding, the court may so order.
Consolidation
(8) Proceedings may be consolidated at any time by order of the court Or may be ordered to be tried at the same time or on the same day.
Misjoinder or nonjoinder of parties (9) No proceeding shall be defeated by reason of the misjoinder or Nonjoinder of a party and the court may deal with the matter in Controversy so far as it affects the rights and interests of the Parties before it.
Carriage by air act (10) In an action under the Carriage by air act (canada) and the convention set out in that act, a high Contracting party to the convention who, for the purposes of that Action and by virtue of that act, is deemed to have submitted to The jurisdiction of the court, may be made a defendant subject to These rules.
Representative proceeding (11) Where numerous persons have the same interest in a proceeding, Other than a proceeding referred to in subrule (17), the Proceeding may be commenced and, unless the court otherwise Orders, continued by or against one or more of them as Representing all or as representing one or more of them.
Idem
(12) At any stage of a proceeding under subrule (11), the court, on the Application of a party, may appoint one or more of the defendants Or respondents or another person to represent one or more of the Persons having the same interest in the proceeding, and where the Court appoints a person not named as a defendant or respondent, it Shall make an order under rule 15 adding that person as a Defendant or respondent.
Enforcement of order made in representative proceeding (13) (a) an order made in a proceeding under subrule (11) is binding on All the persons represented in the proceeding as parties, but Shall not be enforced against a person not a party to the Proceeding except with leave of the court.
(b) An application for leave shall be served on the person against Whom the applicant seeks to enforce the order, and that person may Dispute liability to have the order enforced against him.
(c) On the application, the court may order that the question of Whether the order is enforceable against that person be determined In the manner it thinks just.
Representation of interested person who cannot be ascertained (14) In a proceeding concerning (a) The administration of the estate of a deceased person, (b) Property subject to a trust, or (c) The construction of a written instrument, including an enactment, The court may appoint one or more persons to represent a person, Including an unborn or unascertained person, or the members of a Class of persons who have a present, future, contingent or Unascertained interest in, or who may be affected by the Proceeding, and who, or some of whom, cannot readily be Ascertained or found.
Idem
(15) If an appointment is made under subrule (14), an order in the Proceeding is binding upon a person or class so represented.
Idem
(16) Where, in a proceeding referred to in subrule (14), a compromise Is proposed and a person or member of a class interested in the Compromise is not a party to the proceeding, but (a) There is another person with the same interest who is a party and Who assents to the compromise, or (b) The absent person or member of the class is represented by a Person appointed under subrule (14) who so assents, The court, if satisfied that the compromise will be for the Benefit of the absent person or member of the class and that it is Expedient, may approve the compromise and order that it is binding On the absent person or member of the class and, unless the order Has been obtained by fraud or non-disclosure of material facts, The person or member of the class is bound accordingly.
Representation of beneficiaries by trustees (17) A proceeding may be brought by or against trustees or personal Representatives without joining a person having a beneficial Interest in the trust or estate and, unless the court otherwise Orders on the ground that the trustees or personal representatives Could not or did not represent the interest of that person, an Order granted or made in the proceeding is binding on that person.
Idem
(18) Subrule (17) does not limit the power of the court to order a Person having an interest to be made a party or to make an order Under subrule (14).
Representation of deceased person interested in a proceeding (19) Where the estate of a deceased person has an interest in a matter In question in a proceeding, but there is no personal Representative, the court may proceed in the absence of a person Representing the estate of the deceased person or may appoint a Person to represent the estate for the purposes of the proceeding, And an order made or granted in the proceeding binds the estate to The same extent as it would have been bound had a personal Representative of the deceased person been a party to the Proceeding.
Idem
(20) Before making an order under subrule (19), the court may require Notice of the application to be given to a person having an Interest in the estate.
Person as relator (21) Before the name of a person is used in a proceeding as a relator, That person shall give a written authorization to his or her Solicitor to use the person's name and the authorization shall be Filed.
Declaratory order (22) No proceeding shall be open to objection on the ground that only a Declaratory order is sought, and the court may make binding Declarations of right whether or not consequential relief is or Could be claimed.
Conduct of a proceeding (23) The court may give the conduct of a proceeding to any person it Thinks just.
Rule 6 — persons under disability Interpretation
(1) In this rule "committee" means the committee of the estate of a Patient appointed under the Patients property act .
Commencement of proceedings by person under disability (2) A person under legal disability shall commence or defend a Proceeding by his or her guardian ad litem.
(3) Unless a rule otherwise provides, anything that is required or Authorized by the rules to be done by or invoked against a party Under disability shall (a) Be done on his or her behalf by his guardian ad litem, or (b) Be invoked against him or her by invoking the same against his or Her guardian ad litem.
Idem
(4) A guardian ad litem shall act by a solicitor unless the guardian Ad litem is the public trustee.
Guardian ad litem (5) Unless the court otherwise orders or an enactment otherwise Provides, a person ordinarily resident in the province may be a Guardian ad litem of a person under disability without being Appointed by the court.
Committee as guardian ad litem (6) Where a person is appointed committee, that person shall be the Guardian ad litem of the patient in any proceeding unless the Court otherwise orders.
Consent of guardian ad iitem (7) Before the name of a person is used in a proceeding as a guardian Ad litem that person's consent, signed by the person or his or her Solicitor, shall be filed, unless the person has been appointed by The court.
Certificate of fitness (8) Unless a committee has been appointed, the solicitor for a person Under disability, before acting in a proceeding, shall file a Certificate that he or she knows or believes (a) The person to whom the certificate relates is an infant or Mentally incompetent person, giving the grounds of that knowledge Or belief, and if a mentally incompetent person, that a committee Has not been appointed for the person, and (b) The proposed guardian ad litem of the person under disability has No interest in the proceeding adverse to that person.
Party becoming incompetent (9) Where a party becomes a mentally incompetent person and a Committee has not been appointed for that party, the court shall Appoint a guardian ad litem for him or her.
Removal of guardian ad litem (10) If it is in the interest of a party who is under disability, the Court may remove, appoint or substitute a guardian ad litem.
Step in default (11) A party shall not take a step in default against a person under Disability without leave of the court.
Idem
(12) Unless the court otherwise orders, notice of the application for Leave shall be served on the person under disability 10 days Before the hearing of the application, in the manner provided by Rule 11.
Idem
(13) If no appearance has been entered to an originating process on Behalf of a person under disability, the person who commenced the Proceeding, before continuing the proceeding against the person Under disability, shall obtain an order from the court appointing A guardian ad litem for him or her.
Compromise by person under disability (14) Unless an enactment otherwise provides, where a claim is made by Or on behalf of a person under disability, no settlement, Compromise, payment or acceptance of money paid into court, Whenever entered into or made, so far as it relates to that Person's claim, is binding without the approval of the court.
Approval of compromise (15) Where, before a proceeding is commenced, an agreement is reached For the settlement or compromise of a claim of a person under Disability, whether alone or with others, and it is desired to Obtain the court's approval, application may be made by an Originating application, and the court may make any order as it Thinks just.
Rule 7 — partnerships Partners may sue or be sued in firm name (1) Two or more persons claiming to be entitled, or alleged to be Liable, as partners may sue or be sued in the name of the firm in Which they were partners at the time when the alleged right or Liability arose.
Service on firm (2) Service is effected upon a firm by leaving a copy of the document To be served either with a person who was a partner at the time The alleged right or liability arose or with a person at a place Of business of the firm who appears to manage or control the Partnership business there.
Appearance
(3) An appearance by a partnership shall be in the name of the firm, But a partner or a person served as a partner may appear and Defend in the person's own name, whether or not named in the Originating process.
Affidavit naming partners (4) Where a partnership is a party to a proceeding, any other party May deliver a notice requiring one of the partners to deliver Within 10 days an affidavit setting out the names and addresses of All persons who were partners when the alleged right or liability Arose.
Idem
(5) Where the affidavit requested under subrule (4) is not delivered, The court may order delivery.
Execution against partnership or partners (6) Where an order is made against a firm, execution to enforce the Order may issue against any property of the firm.
Idem
(7) Subject to subrule (8), where an order is made against a firm, Execution to enforce the order may issue against any person who (a) Entered an appearance in the person's own name in the proceeding As a partner, (b) Having been served with the originating process as a partner, Failed to enter an appearance in the proceeding, (c) Admitted in a pleading or affidavit that the person is a partner, Or
(d) Was adjudged to be a partner.
Idem
(8) Where a party who has obtained an order against a firm claims that A person, who is not a person described in subrule (7), is liable To satisfy the order as being a member of the firm, the party may Apply to the court for leave to issue execution against that Person.
Idem
(9) Where the person against whom an application under subrule (8) is Made disputes liability, the court may order that the liability of The person be determined in any manner in which an issue or Question in an action may be determined.
Action against person carrying on business in a name other than The person's own (10) A person carrying on business in a name or style other than the Person's own name may be sued in that name or style as if it were The name of a firm, and this rule applies as though the person Were a partner and the name in which the person carries on Business were the name of that firm.
Rule 8 — form and commencement of proceedings Writ of summons (1) Except where otherwise authorized by an enactment or these rules, Every proceeding in the court shall be commenced by issuing a writ Of summons.
Endorsement
(2) A writ of summons shall be endorsed either with a statement of Claim or with a concise statement of the nature of the claim made And the relief or remedy required in the action.
Form
(3) A writ of summons shall be in form 1.
Service
(4) Subject to rule 13, a writ of summons may be served within or Outside british columbia.
Representative action (5) If the plaintiff sues or a defendant is sued in a representative Capacity, the endorsement shall show in what capacity the Plaintiff or defendant sues or is sued.
Address for delivery (6) A writ of summons shall state the address of the plaintiff and the Office address of the plaintiff's solicitor, if the plaintiff has A solicitor, and shall state an address for delivery which, unless It is the office address of the solicitor, shall be within 10 Miles of the registry.
Idem
(7) For the purpose of subrule (6), a place that is within 10 miles of The registry in the city of vancouver shall be deemed to be also Within 10 miles of the registry in the city of new westminster, And a place within 10 miles of the registry in the city of new Westminster shall be deemed to be also within 10 miles of the Registry in the city of vancouver.
Issue of writ of summons (8) A writ of summons shall be signed by the plaintiff or by or for The plaintiff's solicitor and may be issued out of any registry of The court.
Sealing of writ of summons (9) A writ of summons shall be sealed and dated by the registrar and Shall thereupon be deemed to be issued.
Registrar's copy of writ of summons (10) The plaintiff or the plaintiff's solicitor shall leave the Original writ with the registrar.
Filing writ of summons (11) (a) the registry shall file the writ, number the action commenced By the writ and enter the names of the parties in an index.
(b) The registrar shall return to the plaintiff or the plaintiff's Solicitor as many copies of the issued writ as are requested.
Lost writ of summons (12) If a writ of summons has been lost, the court, on being satisfied Of the loss and the correctness of a copy of the writ, may order That the copy be sealed and stand in place of the original writ.
Proceedings under the Wills variation act (13) A proceeding under section 2 of the Wills variation act Shall be commenced by a writ of summons.
Idem
(14) The surviving spouse and children of the testator, all Beneficiaries under the testator's will whose interest may be Affected by the order sought, and the executor of the will shall Be parties to the proceeding, but the court may order that any Other person be joined as a party.
Idem
(15) In a statement of defence a defendant may raise a claim under Section 2 of the Wills variation act On his or her own behalf, and any other party may deliver a reply.
Idem
(16) A proceeding under the Wills variation act Is governed by these rules.
Proceedings under the Family relations act (17) A proceeding under part 3 of the Family relations act May be commenced by writ of summons.
Application to petition (18) Subrules (4) to (12) apply to a petition.
Rule 9 — renewal of writ Renewal of original writ of summons (1) No original writ of summons shall be in force for more than 12 Months, but where a defendant named in the writ has not been Served, the court, on the application of the plaintiff made before Or after the expiration of the 12 months, may order that the Original writ of summons be renewed for a period of not more than 12 months which, unless otherwise ordered, shall commence on the Date of the order.
Renewal of renewed writ of summons (2) If a renewed writ of summons has not been served on a defendant Named in the writ, the court, on the application of the plaintiff Made during the currency of the renewed writ, may order the Renewal of the writ for a further period of not more than 12 Months which, unless otherwise ordered, shall commence on the date Of the order.
Effect of renewal of writ of summons (3) A renewed writ of summons shall be endorsed by the registrar with The date of the order granting renewal or the date of renewal Referred to in the order, and the renewed writ shall remain in Force and be available to prevent the operation of any statutory Limitation and for all other purposes.
Renewed writ of summons as evidence (4) The production of a writ of summons endorsed by the registrar in Accordance with subrule (3) shall be sufficient evidence for all Purposes of its having been renewed and of the commencement of the Action on the date of the original writ.
Application to petition (5) This rule applies to a petition.
Rule 10 — originating application Originating application (1) An application, other than an interlocutory application or an Application in the nature of an appeal, may be made by originating Application where (a) An application is authorized to be made to the court, (b) The sole or principal question at issue is alleged to be one of Construction of an enactment, will, deed, oral or written Contract, or other document, (c) The applicant is the only person who is interested in the relief Claimed, or there is no person against whom relief is sought, (d) The relief, advice or direction sought relates to a question Arising in the administration of an estate of a deceased person or The execution of a trust, or the performance of an act by a person In the person's capacity as executor, administrator or trustee, or The determination of the persons entitled as creditors or Otherwise to the estate or trust property, (e) The relief, advice or direction sought relates to the maintenance, Guardianship or property of infants or other persons under Disability,
(f) The relief sought is for payment of funds into or out of court, (g) The relief sought relates to land and is for (i) A declaration of a beneficial interest in or a charge on land and Of the character and extent of the interest or charge, (ii) A declaration settling the priority between interests or charges, (iii) An order cancelling a certificate of title or making a title Subject to an interest or charge, or (iv) An order of partition or sale, or (h) The relief, advice or direction sought relates to the Determination of a claim of solicitor and client privilege.
Originating application by praecipe (2) Where the nature of an application or the circumstances of a case Are such that notice need not be given, an originating application May be made by filing in any registry (a) A praecipe in form 2 specifying any rule or other enactment relied On and attaching a draft of the order requested, and (b) The material on which the application is founded, And on being satisfied that the application is appropriate for Proceeding under this rule, the court may make the order without The application being spoken to.
Originating application by petition (3) Subject to subrule (2) an originating application must (a) Be commenced by petition in form 3 and may be issued out of any Registry,
(b) Specify any rule or other enactment relied on, and (c) Set out briefly in numbered paragraphs the facts on which the Application is based.
Idem
(4) A petition shall be supported by affidavit as to all the facts on Which the application is based and shall specify those affidavits.
Service
(5) The petition and copies of all affidavits in support shall be Served on all persons whose interests may be affected by the order Sought.
Ex parte order (6) In case of urgency the court may make an order ex parte and give Directions for service of the order.
Service of affidavits (7) Unless the court otherwise orders, the person serving an ex parte Order, at the time of service, shall also serve a copy of the Petition and each affidavit on which the order was granted.
Setting aside ex parte order (8) On the application of a person affected by an ex parte order the Court may set it aside or vary it as the court thinks just.
Affidavits
(9) A respondent who has entered an appearance to a petition may file An affidavit for use at the hearing of the application.
Idem
(10) A respondent who files an affidavit referred to in subrule (9) Shall deliver a copy to all other parties of record at least 2 Days before the date set for the hearing.
Hearing where no appearance (11) Where no respondent has entered an appearance to a petition within The time allowed, the petitioner may set the matter down for Hearing in chambers by submitting a praecipe to the registry and Filing proof of service.
Notice of hearing (12) Where a respondent has entered an appearance to a petition, the Petitioner or that respondent may set the matter down for hearing In chambers by filing a notice in form 4 in the registry and Delivering a copy of the notice to all parties of record.
Idem
(13) Unless otherwise ordered, there shall be at least 3 days between The delivery of a notice of hearing and the day named in the Notice for hearing the application.
Notice of hearing served with petition (14) A petitioner may serve a notice of hearing with the petition, but No time limit shall be abridged by doing so.
Proceedings under Trustee act (15) A proceeding for the opinion, advice or direction of a judge under The
Trustee act Shall be commenced by petition supported by affidavit.
Idem
(16) The opinion, advice or direction of a judge shall be entered and Remain as of record in the same manner as an order of the court And shall be termed as a "judicial opinion", "judicial advice" or "judicial direction", as the case may require.
Rule 11 — service and delivery of documents Service of writ of summons (1) Service of a writ of summons is required unless the defendant Enters an appearance.
How service effected (2) Service of a document is effected on (a) An individual by leaving a copy of the document with him or her, (b) A corporation by leaving a copy of the document with the President, chairman, mayor or other chief officer of the Corporation, or with the city or municipal clerk, or with the Manager, cashier, superintendent, treasurer, secretary, clerk or Agent of the corporation or of any branch or agency of the Corporation in the province, or in the manner provided by the Company act Or any enactment relating to the service of process, and, for the Purpose of serving a document upon a corporation whose chief place Of business is outside british columbia, every person who, within The province, transacts or carries on any of the business of, or Any business for, that corporation shall be deemed its agent, (c) An unincorporated association, including a trade union, by leaving A copy of the document with any officer of the association, or in The case of a trade union, with a business agent, (d) An infant, in accordance with the Infants act , and (e) A mentally incompetent person by leaving a copy of the document (i) With the person's committee or, where there is no committee, with The person with whom he or she resides or in whose care he or she Is or with the person appointed by the court to be served in the Mentally incompetent person's place, and (ii) With the public trustee, And in no case is it necessary to show the original document.
Person appearing (3) Where a writ of summons or petition has not been served on a Person, but the person files an appearance or appears at the trial Or hearing, the writ or petition shall be deemed to have been Served on that person on the date the person files or appears.
Service on agent (4) Where a contract has been entered into within the province by or Through an agent residing or carrying on business within the Province on behalf of a principal residing out of the province, by Leave of the court given before the determination of the agent's Authority or of the agent's business relations with the principal, A writ of summons or other document in a proceeding relating to or Arising out of the contract may be served on the agent, and a copy Of the order giving leave and of the writ of summons or other Document shall be sent forthwith by registered mail to the Principal at his address out of the province.
Service on attorney general (5) A document to be served on the attorney general shall be served at The ministry of the attorney general in the city of victoria, and Is sufficiently served if left during office hours with any Solicitor on the staff of the attorney general at victoria or Mailed by registered mail to the deputy attorney general at Victoria.
Service on a party who has given an address for delivery (6) Service of a document on a party who has given an address for Delivery may be effected by delivery of a copy of the document.
Proof of service or delivery (7) An affidavit of service or delivery shall state when, where, how And by whom service or delivery was effected.
Service or delivery acknowledged by solicitor (8) Service or delivery of a document upon a solicitor of record, if Acknowledged in writing, need not be verified by affidavit.
Row delivery effected (9) A document may be delivered to a party by (a) Leaving a copy of the document at the party's address for delivery Or at the office of the party's solicitor of record, or (b) Transmitting by telephone to the party's fax number for delivery a Fax cover memo in form 9 together with a copy of the document.
Delivery where no address for delivery given (10) Where the party has no address for delivery as required by these Rules, a document may be delivered by mailing a copy by ordinary Prepaid mail to the party's solicitor or, if the party has no Solicitor, to the last known address of the party.
Service on member of canadian armed forces (11) Where a member of the canadian armed forces has been served by an Officer of the canadian armed forces with a document, proof of the Service in the form of a certificate annexed to a copy of the Document served, signed by the officer and stating his or her rank And when, where and how service was effected, may be filed as Proof of service.
Proof of service by sheriff (12) Service or delivery by a sheriff may be proved by a certificate in Form 5 endorsed on a copy of the document served or delivered.
Rule 12 — substituted service Court may order substituted service (1) Where for any reason it is impractical to serve a document as set Out in rule 11, the court may order substituted service, whether Or not there is evidence that the document will probably reach the Person to be served or will probably come to the person's Attention or that the person is evading service.
How substituted service effected (2) Substituted service of a document is effected by taking the steps That the court has ordered to bring the document to the attention Of the person to be served.
Service of order required (3) Unless otherwise ordered, a copy of the order for substituted Service of a document shall be served with the document, except in The case of an order for substituted service by advertisement, in Which case the advertisement shall contain a reference to the Order.
Rule 13 — service outside british columbia Service outside british columbia without order (1) Service of an originating process or other document on a person Outside british columbia may be effected without order if (a) The whole subject matter of the proceeding is land in british Columbia (with or without rents or profits), or the perpetuation Of testimony relating to land in british columbia, (b) Any act, deed, will, contract, obligation or liability affecting Land or hereditaments in british columbia is sought to be Construed, rectified, set aside or enforced, (c) It is sought to construe a will affecting personal property, if The testator was, at the time of his or her death, domiciled in British columbia, (d) Relief is sought against a person domiciled or ordinarily resident In british columbia, (e) The proceeding is for the administration of the personal estate of A deceased person who, at the time of his or her death, was Domiciled in british columbia, (f) The proceeding is for the execution (as to property in british Columbia) of a trust which ought to be executed according to the Law in force in british columbia and the person to be served is a Trustee,
(g) The proceeding is in respect of a breach, committed in british Columbia, of a contract wherever made, even though the breach was Preceded or accompanied by a breach, outside british columbia, Which rendered impossible the performance of the part of the Contract that ought to have been performed in british columbia, (h) The proceeding is founded on a tort committed in british columbia, (i) An injunction is sought as to anything to be done in british Columbia, or a nuisance in british columbia is sought to be Prevented or removed, whether or not damages are also sought in Addition,
(j) A person outside british columbia is a necessary or proper party To a proceeding properly brought against some other person duly Served in british columbia, (k) The proceeding is by a mortgagee or mortgagor in relation to a Mortgage of property in british columbia and seeks relief of the Nature of sale, foreclosure, delivery of possession by the Mortgagor, redemption, reconveyance or delivery of possession by The mortgagee, whether or not the mortgagee seeks personal Judgment or an order for payment of money due under the mortgage, (1) The proceeding is brought by or on behalf of the crown or a Municipality to recover moneys owing for taxes or other debts due To the crown or a municipality, (m) The proceeding is founded upon a contract, or is in respect of a Claim for alimony, and the defendant has assets in british Columbia,
(n) The action is brought under the Carriage by air act (canada), (o) The claim arises out of goods or merchandise sold or delivered in British columbia, (p) The proceeding is brought upon a foreign judgment and the Defendant or respondent has assets in british columbia, or (q) The proceeding is a divorce, a matrimonial action or an adoption.
(2) Except in a divorce proceeding or a proceeding brought under Subrule (3), a copy of an originating process served outside British columbia without leave shall state specifically by Endorsement in form 6 upon which of the grounds referred to in Subrule (1) it is claimed that service is permitted under this Rule.
Application for leave to service outside the jurisdiction (3) In any case not provided for in subrule (1), the court may grant Leave to serve an originating process or other document outside British columbia.
Idem
(4) An application for leave to serve a person outside british Columbia shall be made before the originating process or other Document is served and shall be supported by an affidavit or other Evidence showing in what place or country that person is or may Probably be found, and the grounds upon which the application is Made, and application may be made ex parte.
Service of order, etc, (5) Copies of the application for leave to serve, of all affidavits in Support of the application, and of the order granting leave to Serve shall be served with the originating process or other Document.
Time for appearance (6) Where a person is served with an originating process outside British columbia, the time for the appearance by that person, After service, shall be (a) 21 days, in the case of a person residing anywhere within canada, (b) 28 days, in the case of a person residing in the united states of America, and (c) 42 days, in the case of a person residing elsewhere.
The court may shorten the time for appearance on ex parte Application.
Where service without leave valid (7) This rule does not invalidate service outside british columbia Without leave of the court where the document could have been Validly served apart from this rule.
Contract containing terms for service (8) Notwithstanding this rule, the parties to a contract may agree (a) That the court will have jurisdiction to entertain a proceeding in Respect of the contract, and (b) That service of a document in the proceeding may be effected at Any place, within or outside british columbia, on any party, or on Any person on behalf of any party, or in a manner specified or Indicated in the contract.
Idem
(9) Service of a document in accordance with an agreement referred to In subrule (8) is effective service, but no contractual Stipulation as to service of a document shall invalidate service That would otherwise be effective under these rules.
Application to set aside (10) Application may be made to set aside service of an originating Process or other document served outside british columbia without Entering an appearance, and if it appears that service should not Have been made outside british columbia, the court may (a) Set aside service of the originating process or other document, And
(b) Order the person initiating the proceeding to pay the costs of the Applicant as special costs.
Definition
(11) In subrules (12) to (14) "convention" means the convention on the Service abroad of judicial and extra judicial documents in civil Or commercial matters, signed at the hague on november 15, 1965.
Manner of service abroad (12) A document may be served outside british columbia (a) In manner provided by these rules for service in british columbia, (b) In a manner provided by the law of the place where service is made If, by that manner of service, the document could reasonably be Expected to come to the notice of the person to be served, or (c) In a state that is a contracting state under the convention, in a Manner provided by or permitted under the convention.
Proof of service abroad (13) Service of a document outside british columbia may be proved (a) In a manner provided by these rules for proof of service in British columbia, (b) In the manner provided for proof of service by the law of the Place where service was made regardless of the manner under Subrule (12) by which service was effected, or (c) In accordance with the convention, if service was effected under Subrule (12) (c).
Forms
(14) Where service is desired to be made in accordance with article 5 Of the convention, forms 104 and 105 shall be used.
Certificate
(15) Where an authority has, in accordance with article 6 of the Convention, completed a certificate in form 106, then the Certificate is evidence of the facts stated in it.
Rule 14 — appearance Filing of appearance (1) (a) where a party wishes to enter an appearance to an originating Process other than a petition, the party shall file an appearance In form 7 and shall deliver a copy of the appearance forthwith to The plaintiff.
(b) Where a party wishes to enter an appearance to a petition, the Party shall file an appearance in form 8 and shall deliver a copy Of the appearance forthwith to the petitioner.
(c) An appearance shall state (i) The name and office address of the party's solicitor, if the party Appears by solicitor, or the party's address, if the party appears In person, and (ii) An address for delivery which, unless it is the office address of The solicitor, shall be within 10 miles of the registry.
(d) An appearance may state a fax number for delivery.
Idem
(2) For the purpose of subrule (1), a place that is within 10 miles of The registry in the city of vancouver shall be deemed to be also Within 10 miles of the registry in the city of new westminster and A place within 10 miles of the registry in the city of new Westminster shall be deemed to be also within 10 miles of the Registry in the city of vancouver.
Time
(3) Unless the court otherwise orders or these rules otherwise Provide, the time for appearance is 7 days from the service of the Originating process.
Idem
(4) Notwithstanding subrule (3), a party may enter an appearance at Any time.
Conditional appearance (5) Conditional appearances are abolished and an appearance purporting To be conditional shall be deemed to be unconditional.
Idem
(6) Where a person served with an originating process has not entered An appearance and alleges that (a) The process is invalid or has expired, (b) The purported service of the process was invalid, or Whether or not the person has entered an appearance, alleges that (c) The court has no jurisdiction over him in the proceeding or should Decline jurisdiction, The person may apply to the court for a declaration to that Effect.
Idem
(7) Where an application is made under rule 13 (10) or subrule (6) of This rule, the plaintiff or petitioner shall take no further step In the proceeding against the applicant, except with leave of the Court, until the application has been concluded.
Idem
(8) An application made under rule 13 (10) or subrule (6) of this rule Does not constitute acceptance of the jurisdiction of the court.
Rule 15 — change of parties Party's death, bankruptcy, etc.
(1) Where a party dies or becomes bankrupt, or a corporate party is Wound up or otherwise ceases to exist, but the claim survives, the Proceeding shall not abate by reason of the death or bankruptcy or The corporate party having been wound up or ceasing to exist.
Idem
(2) Whether or not the claim survives, a proceeding shall not abate by Reason of either party dying between the verdict or finding on the Issues of fact and the entry of judgment, but judgment may be Entered notwithstanding the death.
Assignment or conveyance of interest (3) Where by assignment, conveyance or death, an estate, interest or Title devolves or is transferred, a proceeding relating thereto May be continued by or against the person upon whom or to whom That estate, interest or title has devolved or been transferred.
Change or transmission of interest or liability (4) Where a change or transmission of interest or liability of a party Has taken place or a person interested comes into existence after The commencement of a proceeding and it becomes necessary or Desirable
(a) That a person not already a party should be made a party, or (b) That a person already a party should be made a party in another Capacity,
The court may order that the proceeding be carried on between the Continuing parties and the new party.
Removing, adding or substituting party (5) (a) At any stage of a proceeding, the court on application by any Person may (i) Order that a party, who is not or has ceased to be a proper or Necessary party, cease to be a party, (ii) Order that a person, who ought to have been joined as a party or Whose participation in the proceeding is necessary to ensure that All matters in the proceeding may be effectually adjudicated upon, Be added or substituted as a party, and (iii) Order that a person be added as a party where there may exist, Between the person and any party to the proceeding, a question or Issue relating to or connected (a) With any relief or remedy claimed in the proceeding, or (b) With the subject matter of the proceeding, Which in the opinion of the court it would be just and convenient To determine as between the person and that party.
(b) No person shall be added or substituted as a plaintiff or Petitioner without the person's consent.
Procedure where order made (6) Unless the court otherwise orders, where an order is made under Subrule (4) or (5) adding or changing a party, (a) The originating process shall be amended, and a reference to the Order and the date on which the amendment is made shall be Endorsed upon the amended process, (b) No further steps shall be taken against the person made a party Under the order until the amended process and a copy of the order Are served upon the person, (c) The person made a party under the order may apply to the court to Vary or discharge the order within 7 days from its service, and (d) The rules as to service and entering an appearance apply to the Amended process.
Effect of order (7) Unless the court otherwise orders, where a person becomes a party In substitution for a former party, all things done in the Proceeding before the person became a party shall have the same Effect in relation to that person as they had to the former party, But the substituted party shall enter an appearance.
Prosecution of action where plaintiff or petitioner dies (8) Where a plaintiff or petitioner has died and the proceeding may be Continued, the defendant or respondent may apply to the court for An order that the person entitled ed to proceed do proceed within The time that the court orders and that, in default, the Proceeding be dismissed for want of prosecution.
Idem
(9) Where a proceeding is dismissed under subrule (8), an order for Payment of costs may be made and enforced against the assets of The deceased's estate.
Rule 16 — change of solicitor Change of solicitor (1) A party to a proceeding (a) May change solicitors, (b) Having been acting on his own behalf, may engage a solicitor to Act,
(c) Having been represented by a solicitor, may discharge the Solicitor and act on his own behalf, or (d) May change his address for delivery or fax number for delivery, But until copies of notice of the change in form 10, 11 or 12 have Been filed and delivered to the other parties of record the other Parties are entitled to proceed on the basis that there has been No change of representation or address for delivery.
Order that solicitor has ceased to act (2) Where
(a) A solicitor for a party has died, becomes bankrupt, cannot be Found or for any reason is unable to practise, and (b) The party has not given notice of change of solicitor or of Intention to act in person in accordance with subrule (1), The court on the application of any other party may order that the Solicitor has ceased to be the solicitor of the first mentioned Party.
Idem
(3) Where an order is made under subrule (2), the applicant shall Deliver a copy to the other parties of record.
Order on application of solicitor (4) Where a solicitor who has acted for a party in a proceeding has Ceased to act and the party has not given a notice of change in Accordance with subrule (1), the court, on the application of the Solicitor, may declare that the solicitor has ceased to be the Solicitor acting for the party and, where applicable, (a) That the solicitor's office is not the address for delivery of the Party and give directions as to a new address for delivery, and (b) That the solicitor's fax number for delivery may no longer be used For delivery and give directions for a new fax number for Delivery.
Idem
(5) Until copies of the order referred to in subrule (4) have been Delivered to the other parties of record, they are entitled to Proceed on the basis that the solicitor is continuing to act.
Rule 17 — default of appearance to writ Affidavit of service (1) If a defendant has not filed an appearance to a writ of summons And the time for doing so as set out in rule 14 (3) has expired And the plaintiff wishes to proceed under this rule, the plaintiff Shall file proof of service of the writ on that defendant.
Affidavit of search (2) It is not necessary to file an affidavit of search before Proceeding under this rule.
Claim for debt or liquidated demand (3) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant is solely for Recovery of a debt or liquidated demand and that defendant has not Filed an appearance within the time set out in rule 14 (3), the Plaintiff may enter final judgment in form 86 against that Defendant for a sum not exceeding that claimed, interest if Entitled and costs, and may proceed with the action against any Other defendant.
Idem
(4) For the purposes of subrule (3), a claim may be treated as a claim For a liquidated demand notwithstanding that part of the claim is For interest accruing after the date of the writ, and the interest Shall be computed from the date of the writ to the date of Entering judgment.
Claim for unliquidated damages (5) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant is solely for Unliquidated damages, and that defendant has not filed an Appearance within the time set out in rule 14 (3), the plaintiff May enter judgment in form 86 against that defendant for damages To be assessed and costs, and may proceed with the action against Any other defendant.
Claim for detention of goods (6) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant relates solely to The detention of goods, and that defendant has not filed an Appearance within the time set out in rule 14 (3), the plaintiff, At the plaintiff's option, may enter either (a) Judgment in form 86 against that defendant for the delivery of the Goods, or their value to be assessed, and costs, or (b) Judgment in form 86 for the value of the goods to be assessed and Costs,
And may proceed with the action against any other defendant.
Multiple claims (7) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant includes one or More of the claims referred to in subrule (3), (5) or (6) and Another claim, and that defendant has not filed an appearance Within the time set out in rule 14 (3), the plaintiff may enter Against that defendant judgment, in respect of any claim, as the Plaintiff would be entitled to enter under those subrules if that Were the plaintiff's only claim, and may proceed with the action Against that defendant and any other defendant.
Method of assessment (8) Where a plaintiff has obtained judgment for damages or value to be Assessed, the plaintiff may set the assessment down for trial but, Unless the court otherwise orders, it shall be tried at the same Time as the trial of the action or issues against any other Defendant.
Plaintiff may proceed (9) On an application made by the plaintiff in an action not referred To in subrules (3), (5) and (6), (a) Where the defendant has not filed an appearance within the time Provided for in these rules or an order of the court, and (b) Not less than the later of (i) 14 days from the time limited for appearance, or (ii) The date on which a statement of claim, if not endorsed on or Served with the writ of summons, has either been mailed to the Defendant at the defendant's last known address or delivered in Another manner that the court may order, The court may exercise any of its powers under rule 18 (2).
Idem
(10) Where a writ has been served, but, by reason of the defendant Having after service satisfied the claim, it has become Unnecessary for the plaintiff to proceed with the action, then, if The defendant does not file an appearance within the time set out In rule 14 (3), the plaintiff may, with the leave of the court, Enter judgment against that defendant for costs.
Application to judge or master (11) Where the registrar is not certain that a plaintiff's claim Against a defendant relates to a claim within subrule (3), (5), (6) or (7), the registrar may refuse to enter judgment and the Plaintiff may apply to a judge or master in chambers for default Judgment.
Court may set aside or vary default judgment (12) The court may set aside or vary any judgment entered pursuant to This rule.
Alternative methods of assessment (13) Where a plaints has obtained judgment under subrule (5), (6) or (7),the plaintiff may, instead of proceeding to trial to assess The damages or the value of the goods, apply to the court, and the Court may (a) Assess the damages or value of the goods summarily upon affidavit Or other evidence, (b) Order an assessment, an inquiry or an accounting, (c) Give directions as to the trial or hearing of the assessment or Determination of value, or (d) Make such other order as it thinks just.
Rule 18 — summary in action judgment Application for (1) In an action in which an appearance has been entered, the Plaintiff, on the ground that there is no defence to the whole or Part of a claim, or no defence except as to amount, may apply to The court for judgment on an affidavit setting out the facts Verifying the claim or part of the claim and stating that the Deponent knows of no fact which would constitute a defence to the Claim or part of the claim except as to amount.
Order for (2) On the hearing of an application under subrule (1), the court may Exercise any of its powers under rule 52 (8) and may (a) Grant judgment for the plaintiff on the whole or part of the claim And may impose terms on the plaintiff', including a stay of Execution of any judgment, until the determination of a Defendant's counterclaim or third party proceeding, (b) Allow the defendant to defend the whole or part of the claim Either unconditionally or on terms relating to the giving of Security, time, the mode of trial or otherwise, and may give Directions under rule 40 (44) and (52) for the hearing of evidence At trial, (c) With the consent of all parties, dispose of the action finally in A summary way, with or without pleadings, (d) Award costs, or (e) Grant any other order it thinks just.
Continuing proceedings after summary judgment (3) Where a plaintiff obtains judgment under subrule (2), the Plaintiff may continue the action in respect of any remaining part Of the claim, any other claim or against any other defendant.
Summary judgment on counterclaim or third party proceeding (4) This rule applies to a counterclaim or third party proceeding.
Setting aside or varying summary judgment (5) A judgment given against a party who does not appear at the Hearing of an application under this rule may be set aside or Varied by the court.
Summary judgment for defendant (6) In an action in which an appearance has been entered, the Defendant may, on the ground there is no merit in the whole or Part of the claim, apply to the court for judgment on an affidavit Setting out the facts verifying the defendant's contention that There is no merit in the whole or part of the claim and stating That the deponent knows of no facts which would substantiate the Whole or part of the claim.
Order for summary judgment for defendant (7) On the hearing of an application under subrule (6) the court may (a) Dismiss the action, (b) Make any order referred to in subrule (2), (c) Grant any other order it thinks just.
Rule 18a — summary trial Application for (1) In
(a) An action in which a defence has been filed, (b) An originating application in respect of which a trial has been Ordered under rule 52 (11) (d), or (c) A contested proceeding under the Divorce act, 1985 (canada) A party may apply to the court for judgment either upon an issue Or generally.
Notice of application (2) Unless otherwise ordered, there shall be at least 14 days between The delivery of the notice of motion and the day named in the Notice for the hearing of the application.
Evidence on application (3) On an application under this rule, the applicant and each other Party of record may adduce evidence, which shall be by affidavit, And the court may adjourn the application and make an order Provided for in rule 52 (8).
Adjournment
(4) Where an application for judgment is adjourned under subrule (3), The judge making the order is not seized of the application, Unless the judge otherwise orders.
Judgment
(5) On the hearing of the application, the court may grant judgment in Favour of any party either upon an issue or generally, unless (a) The court is unable on the whole of the evidence before the court On the application, to find the facts necessary to decide the Issues of fact or law, or (b) The court is of the opinion that it would be unjust to decide the Issues on the application, And may impose terms respecting enforcement of the judgment, Including a stay of execution, as it thinks just, and may award Costs.
No further application without leave (6) Where the court does not grant judgment under subrule (5), the Applicant may not make a further application under subrule (1) Without leave of the court.
Directions
(7) Where the court is unable to grant judgment under subrule (5), and Considers that the proceeding ought to be expedited by giving Directions, the court may order the trial of a proceeding Generally or on an issue and may order that (a) The pleadings be amended or closed within a fixed time, (b) A party file and deliver, within a fixed time, to each party as Specified by the judge, a list of documents or an affidavit Verifying a list of documents in accordance with the directions That the judge may give, (c) Interlocutory applications be brought within a fixed time, (d) A genera1 application for directions be brought within a fixed Time,
(e) A statement of agreed facts be filed within a fixed time, (f) All procedures for discovery be conducted in accordance with a Schedule and plan directed by the court, and the plan may set Limitations on those discovery procedures, (g) The obligation to pay conduct money to any of the parties or Persons to be examined be allocated in the manner specified in the Order,
(h) An examination for discovery or a pre-trial examination of a Witness be of limited duration, (i) A party deliver a written summary of the proposed evidence of a Witness within a fixed time, (j) The evidence in chief of a witness be of limited duration, (k) The evidence in chief of a witness may be given in whole or part By the production of a written statement, (1) Experts who have been retained by the parties meet, on a without Prejudice basis, to determine those matters on which they agree And to identify those matters on which they do not agree, (m) Evidence be adduced in a manner provided by rule 40 (44) and (52), (n) A party deliver a written summary of the whole or part of the Party's argument within a fixed time, (o) The submissions of counsel be of limited duration, (p) A pre-trial conference be held at a time and place to be fixed at Which any of the orders in this subrule may be made, and, (q) With the approval of the chief justice, the proceeding be set for Trial on a particular date or upon a particular trial list.
Judge not to preside (8) A judge who has heard an application under this rule shall not Preside at the trial unless all parties of record file a consent.
Right to vary (9) A court may, before or at trial, vary or set aside an order made Under subrule (7).
Order where jury notice filed (10) A party may apply to the court for judgment under subrule (5) Notwithstanding the fact that a party may have filed a notice Under rule 39 (26) requiring that the trial of the action be heard With a jury.
Rule 19 — pleadings generally Contents
(1) A pleading shall be as brief as the nature of the case will permit And must contain a statement in summary form of the material facts On which the party relies, but not the evidence by which the facts Are to be proved.
Idem
(2) The effect of any document or the purport of any conversation Referred to in a pleading, if material, shall be stated briefly And the precise words of the documents or conversation shall not Be stated, except in so far as those words are themselves Material.
Idem
(3) A party need not plead a fact if it is presumed by law to be true Or if the burden of disproving it lies on the other party.
Idem
(4) A party need not plead the performance of a condition precedent Necessary for the party's case, unless the other party has Specifically denied it in that other party's pleadings.
Form
(5) A pleading shall be divided into paragraphs numbered Consecutively, each allegation being contained in a separate Paragraph.
Matters arising since commencement (6) A party may plead a matter which has arisen since the commencement Of the proceeding.
Inconsistent allegations (7) A party shall not plead an allegation of fact or a new ground or Claim inconsistent with the party's previous pleading.
Alternative allegations (8) Subrule (7) does not affect the right of a party to make Allegations in the alternative or to amend or apply for leave to Amend a pleading.
Raising a point of law (9) A party may raise any point of law in a pleading.
Status admitted (10) Unless the incorporation of a corporate party or the office or Status of a party is specifically denied, it shall be deemed to be Admitted.
Where particulars necessary (11) Where the party pleading relies on misrepresentation, fraud, Breach of trust, wilful default or undue influence, or where Particulars may be necessary, full particulars, with dates and Items if applicable, shall be stated in the pleading. if the Particulars of debt, expenses or damages are lengthy, the party May refer to this fact and instead of pleading the particulars Shall deliver the particulars in a separate document either before Or with the pleading.
Particulars in libel or slander (12) In an action for libel or slander, (a) Where the plaintiff alleges that the words or matter complained of Were used in a derogatory sense other than their ordinary meaning, The plaintiff shall give particulars of the facts and matters on Which the plaintiff relies in support of that sense, and (b) Where the defendant alleges that, in so far as the words Complained of consist of statements of fact, they are true in Substance and in fact, and that in so far as they consist of Expressions of opinion, they are fair comment on a matter of Public interest, the defendant shall give particulars stating Which of the words complained of the defendant alleges are Statements of fact and of the facts and matters relied on in Support of the allegation that the words are true.
Set-off or counterclaim (13) A defendant in an action may set off or set up by way of Counterclaim any right or claim, whether the set-off or Counterclaim is for damages or not, so as to enable the court to Pronounce a final judgment on all claims in the same action.
Filing and delivery of pleadings (14) A pleading shall be filed and a copy delivered to all parties of Record and shall contain the style of proceeding, the description Of the pleading, and the name and address for delivery of the Party delivering the same.
Pleading after the statement of claim (15) In a pleading subsequent to a statement of claim a party shall Plead specifically any matter of fact or point of law that (a) The party alleges makes a claim or defence of the opposite party Not maintainable, (b) If not specifically pleaded, might take the other party by Surprise, or (c) Raises issues of fact not arising out of the preceding pleading.
Order for particulars (16) The court may order a party to deliver further and better Particulars of a matter stated in a pleading.
Demand for particulars (17) Before applying to the court for particulars, a party shall demand Them in writing from the other party.
Demand for particulars not a stay of proceedings (18) A demand for particulars does not operate as a stay of proceedings Or give an extension of time, but a party may apply for an Extension of time for delivering a pleading on the ground that the Party cannot answer that pleading until particulars are provided.
Denial required if fact not admitted (19) An allegation of fact in a pleading, if not denied or stated to be Not admitted in the pleading of the opposite party, shall be taken To be admitted, except as against an infant or mentally Incompetent person.
General denial sufficient (20) It is not necessary in a pleading to deny specifically each Allegation made in the preceding pleadings, but a general denial Is sufficient with respect to those allegations which are not Admitted.
Substance to be answered (21) If a party in a pleading denies an allegation of fact in the Previous pleading of the opposite party, the party shall not do so Evasively but shall answer the point of substance.
Denial of contract (22) If a contract, promise or agreement is alleged in a pleading, a Bare denial of it by the opposite party shall be construed only as A denial of fact of the express contract, promise or agreement Alleged, or of the matters of fact from which it may be implied by Law, and not as a denial of the legality or sufficiency in law of That contract, promise or agreement.
Allegation of malice (23) It is sufficient to allege malice, fraudulent intention, knowledge Or other condition of the mind of a person as a fact, without Setting out the circumstances from which it is to be inferred.
Scandalous, frivolous or vexatious matters (24) At any stage of a proceeding the court may order to be struck out Or amended the whole or any part of an endorsement, pleading, Petition or other document on the ground that (a) It discloses no reasonable claim or defence as the case may be, (b) It is unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous or vexatious, (c) It may prejudice, embarrass or delay the fair trial or hearing or The proceeding, or (d) It is otherwise an abuse of the process of the court, And the court may grant judgment or order the proceeding to be Stayed or dismissed and may order the costs of the application to Be paid as special costs.
Idem
(25) Where on the filing of a document a registrar considers that the Whole or any part of an endorsement, pleading, petition or other Document could be the subject of an order under subrule (24), the Registrar may, notwithstanding any other provision of these rules, Retain it and all filed copies of it, and refer it to the court And the court may, after a summary hearing as the court directs, Make an order under subrule (24).
Idem
(26) Where the court makes such an order, the registrar shall give Notification of the order, in the manner directed by the court, to The person who filed the document, and that person may, within 7 Days of being notified, apply to the court and the court may Confirm, vary or rescind the order.
Idem
(27) No evidence is admissible on an application under subrule (24) (a).
General relief (28) A pleading need not ask for general or other relief.
General damages shall not be pleaded (29) Where general damages are claimed, the amount of the general Damages claimed shall not be stated in the originating process or In any pleading.
Rule 20 — statement of clai Form
(1) A statement of claim must be in form 13.
Delivery
(2) The plaintiff shall file and deliver a statement of claim either With the writ of summons or within 21 days after appearance.
Altering claim from that endorsed on the writ (3) The plaintiff may, in a statement of claim, alter, modify or Extend the claim without amending the endorsement on the writ.
Place of trial (4) A statement of claim must show the proposed place of trial.
Specific relief (5) A statement of claim must state the specific relief which the Plaintiff claims, and may ask for relief in the alternative.
Rule 21 — statement of defence and counterclaim Form
(1) A statement of defence must be in form 14.
Bills of exchange (2) In an action on a bill of exchange, a promissory note or a cheque, A statement of defence in denial must deny some matter of fact, For example, the drawing, making, endorsing, accepting, presenting Or notice of dishonour of the bill or note.
Contracts
(3) In an action for money due under a contract, a statement of Defence must specifically deny such matters of fact, from which The liability of the defendant is alleged to arise, as are Disputed.
Damages
(4) No denial is necessary as to damages claimed or their amount, but They shall be deemed to be put in issue in all cases unless Expressly admitted.
Delivery
(5) Where a defendant has entered an appearance the defendant shall File and deliver a statement of defence and any counterclaim to The plaintiff within 14 days from the time limited for appearance Or from the delivery of the statement of claim, whichever is Later.
Counterclaim
(6) A counterclaim must be pleaded separately, must be in form 15 and May be included in the same document as the statement of defence.
Idem
(7) The parties shall be referred to in a counterclaim in their Original capacities and the terms "plaintiff by way of Counterclaim" and "defendant by way of counterclaim" shall not be Used except as provided in subrules (8) to (11).
Counterclaim against plaintiff and another person (8) Where a defendant sets up a counterclaim that raises questions Between that defendant and the plaintiff along with any other Person, the defendant may join that person as a party against whom The counterclaim is made.
Idem
(9) Where the person referred to in subrule (8) is not a party to the Original action, the person's name shall be added to the style of Proceeding as "defendant by counterclaim".
Idem
(10) Where the person referred to in subrule (8) is a party to the Original action, the defendant shall deliver the counterclaim to That person within the period in which the defendant is required To deliver it to the plaintiff.
Idem
(11) Where the person referred to in subrule (8) is not a party to the Original action, a notice in form 16 shall be filed, and, together With the counterclaim, be served on that person, and the person May enter an appearance to it, and rules 17, 18 and 25 apply as Though that person were a defendant to a writ of summons.
Defence to counterclaim (12) A person served with a counterclaim becomes a defendant to the Counterclaim from the time of service with the same rights and Obligations in respect of conducting a defence to the counterclaim Or otherwise as a defendant.
Separate trial of counterclaim (13) Where, on the application of a party against whom a counterclaim Is made, it appears that the subject matter of the counterclaim Ought to be dealt with separately, the court may order that the Counterclaim be struck out or tried separately or may make any Other order it thinks just.
Where action stayed or discontinued (14) Where, in an action in which the defendant has set up a Counterclaim, the action of the plaintiff is stayed, discontinued Or dismissed, the counterclaim may proceed.
Judgment
(15) Where a set-off or counterclaim establishes a defence to the Plaintiff's claim, the court may give judgment for the defendant For any balance in the defendant's favour or for other relief as The court thinks just.
Rule 22 — third party procedure Issue of third party notice (1) Where a defendant who has entered an appearance claims against any Person, whether or not that person is a party to the action (in These rules called the third party), (a) That the defendant is entitled to contribution or indemnity, (b) That the defendant is entitled to any relief or remedy relating to Or connected with the original subject matter of the action and Substantially the same as some relief or remedy claimed by the Plaintiff, or (c) That any question or issue relating to or connected with the Original subject matter is substantially the same as some question Or issue arising between the plaintiff and the defendant and Should properly be determined, not only as between the plaintiff And the defendant, but also as between the plaintiff and defendant And the third party, or between any or either of them, The defendant may issue, in the same manner as a writ of summons, A third party notice in form 17 setting out a statement of the Defendant's claim against the third party.
Delivery and service of third party notice (2) A defendant issuing a third party notice shall forthwith deliver To the plaintiff a copy of the notice and serve the third party With the notice and copies of all the pleadings delivered to that Time.
Issue of third party notice by a third party (3) Where a person served with a third party notice claims to be Entitled to claim over against another person, that person may, in The same manner as a defendant, issue a third party notice, and This rule applies.
Application to set aside notice (4) At any time, upon application, the court may set aside a third Party notice.
Appearance
(5) A third party may enter an appearance in accordance with rule 14.
Effect of appearance by third party (6) Where the third party has entered an appearance to the third party Notice, the third party shall (a) Be served with all subsequent pleadings in the action, and (b) Be in the same position in the third party proceedings as though The third party were a defendant in an action brought by the party Issuing the third party notice as plaintiff against him for the Relief claimed.
Statement of defence (7) Where a third party has entered an appearance and desires to Dispute his liability to the party issuing the notice, the third Party shall file and deliver a statement of defence to the party Issuing the third party notice within 14 days after entering the Appearance.
Reply
(8) The defendant shall file and deliver any reply to a third party's Statement of defence within 7 days after delivery of that Statement.
Default by third party (9) Where the third party has not filed an appearance to or has not Filed and delivered a statement of defence to a third party Notice,
(a) The third party shall be deemed to admit the validity of any Judgment given, whether by consent or otherwise, against the party Issuing the third party notice, and (b) If the party issuing the third party notice has satisfied the Judgment against him, that party may enter judgment against the Third party to the extent of the contribution or indemnity claimed In the notice and with the leave of the court in respect of any Other relief or remedy claimed therein, or (c) If the party issuing the third party notice has not satisfied the Judgment, that party or the judgment holder may apply to the court For judgment, as the nature of the case requires, including Judgment for the judgment holder against the third party.
Statement of defence to statement of claim (10) Where the third party has entered an appearance, the third party May file and deliver a statement of defence to the plaintiff's Statement of claim, raising any defence open to the defendant, and Then the third party shall be in the same position with respect to The conduct of the action as though the third party were a Defendant.
Application for directions (11) A party affected by third party proceedings may apply to the court For directions.
Third party proceedings not to prejudice plaintiff (12) To avoid prejudice or unnecessary delay to the plaintiff by third Party proceedings, the court may impose terms to prevent the Prejudice or delay.
Trial
(13) The issue between the defendant and the third party may be tried At the time the court may direct.
Rule 23 — reply and subsequent pleadings Form
(1) A reply must be in form 18.
Delivery of reply (2) A plaintiff shall file and deliver any reply within 7 days after The statement of defence has been delivered.
Pleading subsequent to reply (3) No pleading subsequent to reply shall be filed or delivered Without leave of the court.
Statement of defence to counterclaim (4) Where a counterclaim is pleaded, the statement of defence to it Shall be in form 19 and shall be subject to the rules applicable To statements of defence.
Close of pleadings (5) Where no reply to a statement of defence, to a statement of Defence to a counterclaim, or to a subsequent pleading is Delivered within the time allowed, the pleadings are closed and Material statements of fact in the pleading last delivered shall Be deemed to have been denied and put in issue.
Failure to reply (6) Where no reply to a statement of defence is delivered, a joinder Of issue on that defence is implied.
No joinder of issue (7) No reply that is a simple joinder of issue shall be filed or Delivered.
Rule 24 — amendment When amendment may be made (1) A party may amend an originating process or pleading issued or Filed by the party at any time with leave of the court, and, Subject to rules 15 (5) and 31 (5) (a) Once without leave of the court, at any time before delivery of The notice of trial or hearing, and (b) At any time with the written consent of all the parties.
How amendments made (2) Unless the court otherwise orders, where a party amends a document Under subrule (1), a new document, being a copy of the original Document but amended and bearing the date of the original, shall Be filed.
Idem
(3) An amendment to a document must be dated, identified and Underlined.
Service of amended pleading (4) Unless the court otherwise orders, service on a party of an Amended originating process or pleading shall be required if the Original has been served on that party and no appearance has been Entered or, in the case of a third party notice, no statement of Defence has been filed.
Amendment at trial (5) Unless the court otherwise orders, where an amendment is granted During a trial or hearing, an order need not be taken out and the Amended document need not be filed, delivered or served.
Service or delivery of amended document (6) Unless the court otherwise orders, where a party amends a document Under subrule (1), the party shall deliver copies of the amended Document to all the parties of record within 7 days after its Amendment and, where service is required under subrule (4), the Party shall serve copies on the persons required to be served as Soon as reasonably possible and before taking any further step in The proceeding.
Time for appearance to amended writ or petition (7) Where a party is served with an amended writ of summons or Petition under subrule (4), the party has the same period of time For entering an appearance as that to which the party was entitled With respect to the original document.
Amendments consequent upon amendment (8) Where an amended statement of claim, counterclaim, or third party Notice is served on or delivered to an opposing party, (a) The opposing party, if he has already delivered a statement of Defence, may amend that statement of defence, but only with Respect to any matter raised by the amendments to the statement of Claim, counterclaim. or third party notice, and (b) The period for filing and delivering a statement of defence or Amended statement of defence is 14 days after the amended pleading Is delivered to him.
Failure to deliver amended statement of defence (9) Where a party does not deliver an amended statement of defence as Provided in subrule (8), the party shall be deemed to rely upon His original statement of defence.
Rule 25 — default of pleading Default in delivery of statement of claim (1) Where a plaintiff has not filed and delivered a statement of claim Within the time allowed, the court may, on the application of the Defendant, order the action to be dismissed or may make any other Order it thinks just.
Affidavit proving delivery (2) Where a defendant fails to deliver a statement of defence within The time allowed and the plaintiff wishes to proceed under this Rule, the plaintiff shall file proof of delivery of the statement Of claim and the defendant's failure to deliver a statement of Defence.
Affidavit of search (3) It is not necessary to file an affidavit of search before Proceeding as permitted under this rule.
Claim for debt or liquidated demand (4) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant is solely for Recovery of a debt or liquidated demand, and that defendant fails To file and deliver a statement of defence within the time Allowed, the plaintiff may enter final judgment in form 86 against That defendant for a sum not exceeding that claimed, interest if Entitled and costs, and may proceed with the action against any Other defendant.
Idem
(5) For the purpose of subrule (4), a claim may be treated as a claim For a liquidated demand notwithstanding that part of the claim is For interest accruing after the date of the writ of summons, and The interest shall be computed from the date of the writ to the Date of entering judgment.
Claim for unliquidated damages (6) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant is solely for Unliquidated damages, and that defendant fails to file and deliver A statement of defence within the time allowed, the plaintiff may Enter judgment in form 86 against that defendant for damages to be Assessed and costs, and may proceed with the action against any Other defendant.
Claim for detention of goods (7) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant relates solely to The detention of goods, and that defendant fails to file and Deliver a statement of defence within the time allowed, the Plaintiff, at the plaintiff's option, may enter either (a) Judgment in form 86 against that defendant for the delivery of the Goods, or their value to be assessed and costs, or (b) Judgment in form 86 for the value of the goods to be assessed and Costs,
And may proceed with the action against any other defendant.
Multiple claims (8) Where the plaintiff's claim against a defendant is for one or more Of the claims referred to in subrule (4), (6) or (7), or for Another claim, and that defendant fails to file and deliver a Statement of defence within the time allowed, the plaintiff may Enter against that defendant judgment, in respect of any claim, as The plaintiff would be entitled to enter under those subrules if That were the plaintiff's only claim, and may proceed with the Action against that defendant and any other defendant.
Application to judge or master (9) Where the registrar is not certain that a plaintiff's claim Against a defendant relates to a claim within subrule (4), (6), (7) or (8), the registrar may refuse to enter judgment and the Plaintiff may apply to a judge or master in chambers for default Judgment.
No defence to part of claim (10) Where a statement of defence answers only part of the claim in the Statement of claim, the plaintiff may apply to the court for such Judgment in respect of the unanswered claim as the plaintiff would Be entitled to enter under subrules (4) to (7) if no statement of Defence were filed.
No execution on default judgment where there is a counterclaim (11) Unless the court otherwise orders, where there is a counterclaim The plaintiff shall not issue execution on a judgment obtained Under this rule until the entire action has been disposed of.
Default in other claims (12) In an action for a claim not referred to in subrules (4) to (7), Where the defendant fails to file and deliver a statement of Defence, the court, on the application of the plaintiff, may Exercise any of its powers under rule 18 (2).
Default by one of several defendants (13) Where in any action mentioned in subrule (12) there are several Defendants and one or more defaults in filing and delivering a Statement of defence, the court, on the application of the Plaintiff, may proceed as in subrule (12) or direct the matter to Stand until the trial of the action.
Method of assessment (14) Where a plaintiff has obtained judgment for damages or value to be Assessed, the plaintiff may set the assessment down for trial but, Unless the court otherwise orders, it shall be tried at the same Time as the trial of the action or issues against any other Defendant.
Court may set aside or vary default judgment (15) The court may set aside or vary any judgment entered under this Rule.
Alternative methods of assessment (16) Where a plaintiff has obtained judgment under subrule (6), (7) or (8), instead of proceeding to trial to assess the damages or the Value of the goods, the plaintiff may apply to the court and the Court may (a) Assess the damages or value of the goods summarily upon affidavit Or other evidence, (b) Order an assessment, an inquiry or an accounting, (c) Give directions as to the trial or hearing of the assessment or Determination of value, or (d) Make any other order it thinks just.
Rule 26 — discovery and inspection of documents Delivery of and answer to demand for discovery of documents (1) A party to an action may deliver to any other party a demand in Form 92 for discovery of the documents which are or have been in The party's possession or control relating to any matter in Question in the action, and the other party shall comply with the Demand within 21 days by delivering a list, in form 93, of the Documents that are or have been in the party's possession or Control relating to every matter in question in the action Enumerating the documents in a convenient order with a short Description of the documents.
Claim for privilege (2) Where it is claimed that a document is privileged from production, The claim must be made in the list of documents with a statement Of the grounds of the privilege.
Affidavit verifying list of documents (3) The court may order a party to deliver an affidavit verifying a List of documents.
Application respecting a specific document (4) The court, at any time, on the application of a party, may require Any other party to deliver an affidavit stating whether a document Or class of documents specified or described in the application is Or has been in the other party's possession or control and, if not Then in that party's possession or control, when the party parted With it and what has become of it.
Idem
(5) An application for an order under subrule (4) shall be supported By an affidavit stating the belief of the deponent that the party From whom discovery is sought has or at some time had in his Possession or control the document or class of documents specified Or described in the application and that the document relates to One or more of the matters in question in the action.
Cross-examination on affidavit (6) The court may order a party to attend and be cross-examined on an Affidavit delivered under this rule.
Inspection of documents (7) A party who has delivered a list of documents to any other party Shall allow the other party to inspect and copy the documents Listed, except those which he objects to produce, and when he Delivers the list he shall also deliver a notice stating a place Where the documents may be inspected and copied during normal Business hours.
Production of document referred to in pleadings (8) At any time a party may deliver a notice to any other party, in Whose pleadings or affidavits reference is made to a document, Requiring the other party to produce that document and, within 2 Days, the other party shall deliver a notice stating a place where The document may be inspected and copied during normal business Hours or stating that he objects to producing the document and the Grounds of the objection.
Copies of documents (9) Where a party is entitled to inspect documents in the possession Of another party, the other party shall, on request, deliver Copies of any of the documents, if reproducible, on payment in Advance of the cost of reproduction and delivery.
Order to produce document (10) The court may order the production of a document for inspection And copying by any party or by the court at a time and place and In the manner it thinks just.
Idem
(11) Where a document is in the possession or control of a person who Is not a party, the court, on notice to the person and all other Parties, may order production and inspection of the document or Preparation of a certified copy that may be used instead of the Original. an order under rule 41 (16) in respect of an order under This subrule may be made if that order is endorsed with an Acknowledgment by the person in possession or control of the Document that the person has no objection to the terms of the Proposed order.
Inspection of document by court (12) Where, on an application for production of a document, production Is objected to, the court may inspect the document for the purpose Of deciding the validity of the objection.
Supplementary list of documents (13) Where, after a list of documents has been delivered under this Rule,
(a) It comes to the attention of the party delivering it that the list Was inaccurate or incomplete, or (b) A document relating to a matter in question in the action comes Into the party's possession or control after the delivery of the List,
The party shall deliver forthwith a supplementary list specifying The inaccuracy or document.
Party may not use document (14) Unless the court otherwise orders, where a party fails to make Discovery of or produce for inspection or copying a document as Required by this rule, the party may not put the document in Evidence in the proceeding or use it for the purpose of Examination or cross-examination.
Determination of issue before discovery (15) Where the party from whom discovery or inspection of document is Sought objects, the court may, if satisfied that for any reason it Is desirable that any issue or question in dispute in a proceeding Should be determined before deciding on the right to discovery or Inspection, order that the issue or question be determined first And reserve the question of discovery or inspection.
Rule 27 — examination for discovery Leave of the court not required (1) Subject to this rule and to rule 39 (22), an examination for Discovery may take place without leave of the court at any time Before the trial of an action.
Oral examination on oath (2) An examination for discovery is an oral examination on oath.
Of party adverse in interest (3) A party to an action may examine for discovery any party adverse In interest.
Examination of director, etc.
(4) A person who is or has been a director, officer, employee, agent Or external auditor of a party may be examined for discovery, but That party may apply to the court at any time before the Examination for an order requiring the examining party to examine Instead of that person some other person who is or has been a Director, officer, employee, agent or external auditor of the Party.
Examination of employees, agents, etc.
(5) (a) a party who has examined for discovery any party adverse in Interest shall not examine an employee or agent of that adverse Party without leave of the court.
(b) A party who has examined an employee or agent of another party Shall not examine that other party without leave of the court.
(c) A party who has examined a person referred to in subrule (4) shall Not examine any other person referred to in that subrule without Leave of the court.
Corporation to name person for examination (6) Where a corporation is a party, it shall disclose the name of a Person to be examined who is knowledgeable concerning the matters In question in the action.
Examination of partners (7) Where a partnership is a party, one or more of the partners may be Examined for discovery.
Examination of party for whose benefit action brought (8) Subject to subrule (11), a person for whose immediate benefit an Action is brought or defended may be examined for discovery.
Examination of assignor (9) Where an action is brought by an assignee, the assignor may be Examined for discovery.
Examination of guardian and infants (10) Where an infant is a party, the infant, his or her guardian and His or her guardian ad litem may be examined for discovery.
Examination of mentally incompetent person (11) Where a mentally incompetent person is a party, his or her Guardian ad litem and his or her committee may be examined for Discovery, but the mentally incompetent person may not be examined Without leave of the court.
Examination of bankrupt (12) Where a trustee in bankruptcy is a party, the bankrupt may be Examined for discovery.
Time
(13) An examination for discovery by a plaintiff may take place after The expiration of time for delivery of the statement of defence of The party to be examined, and an examination by a defendant may Take place at any time after the defendant has delivered a Statement of defence.
Place
(14) Unless the court otherwise orders, or the parties to the Examination consent, an examination for discovery shall take place At the registry nearest to the place where the person to be Examined resides.
Examination before reporter (15) An examination for discovery shall be conducted before an official Reporter, who is empowered to administer the oath.
Appointment for (16) Where a party is entitled to examine a person for discovery, the Party may obtain an appointment from an official reporter, and the Person to be examined, on being served personally with a notice in Form 20 and being tendered the proper witness fees at least 2 days Before the examination, shall attend and submit to examination.
Delivery of notice (17) The party examining for discovery shall deliver a copy of the Notice to the solicitor for the person to be examined, where that Party has a solicitor in the action, and to each of the other Parties of record or their solicitors, at least 2 days before the Examination.
Delivery of notice to solicitor (18) Instead of service of the notice on the person to be examined, Delivery of it and tender of the proper fees to the solicitor for The person to be examined shall be sufficient if made 7 days Before the date appointed for the examination.
Idem
(19) Where a solicitor receives a notice under this rule, the solicitor Shall forthwith inform the person required to attend and shall pay The fees to that person. the fees shall not be attached.
Production of documents (20) A person to be examined for discovery, and the party on whose Behalf the person is to be examined, shall produce for inspection On the examination all documents in his or her possession or Power, not privileged, relating to the matters in question in the Action.
Examination and re-examination (21) The examination of a person for discovery shall be in the nature Of a cross-examination, and the person examined may be re-examined On his or her own behalf or on behalf of a party not adverse in Interest to him or her in relation to any matter respecting which He or she has been examined. after the re-examination he or she May be further examined by the examining party, Scope of examination (22) Unless the court otherwise orders, a person being examined for Discovery shall answer any question within his or her knowledge or Means of knowledge regarding any matter, not privileged, relating To a matter in question in the action, and is compellable to give The names and addresses of all persons who reasonably might be Expected to have knowledge relating to any matter in question in The action.
Idem
(23) In order to comply with subrule (22), a person being examined for Discovery may be required to inform himself or herself and the Examination may be adjourned for that purpose.
Objections
(24) Where a person under examination objects to answer a question put To him or her, the question and the objection shall be taken down By the official reporter and the validity of the objection may be Decided by the court, which may order the person to submit to Further examination.
How recorded (25) An examination for discovery shall be taken down in the form of Question and answer, and copies of the transcript may be obtained On payment of the proper fee by any party of record, the person Examined or by any other person as the court for special reason May permit.
Application to persons outside british columbia (26) So far as is practical, this rule applies to a person residing Outside of british columbia, and the court, on application on Notice to the person, may order the examination for discovery of The person at a place and in the manner it thinks just and Convenient, but unless the court otherwise orders, delivery of the Order and the notice may be made on, and payment of the proper fee May be made to, the solicitor for the person.
Rule 28 — pre-trial of witness Order for (1) Where a person, not a party to an action, may have material Evidence relating to a matter in question in the action, the court May order that the person be examined on oath on the matters in Question in the action and may, either before or after the Examination, order that the examining party pay reasonable Solicitor's costs of the person relating to the application and The examination.
Expert
(2) An expert retained or specially employed by another party in Anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial may not be Examined under this rule unless the party seeking the examination Is unable to obtain facts and opinions on the same subject by Other means.
Affidavit in support of application (3) An application for an order under subrule (1) shall be supported By affidavit setting out (a) The matter in question in the action to which the applicant Believes that the evidence of the proposed witness may be Material,
(b) Where the proposed witness is an expert retained or specially Employed by another party in anticipation of litigation or Preparation for trial, that the applicant is unable to obtain Facts and opinions on the same subject by other means, and (c) That the proposed witness has refused or neglected upon request by The applicant to give a responsive statement, either orally or in Writing, relating to the witness' knowledge of the matters in Question, or that the witness has given conflicting statements.
Notice of application (4) The applicant shall serve notice on the proposed witness at least 7 days before the hearing of the application.
Subpoena
(5) Where a party is entitled to examine a person under this rule, by Serving on that person a subpoena in form 21, the party may Require the person to bring to the examination (a) Any document in the person's possession or power relating to the Matters in question in the action, without the necessity of Identifying the document, and (b) Any physical object in the person's possession or power which the Party contemplates tendering at the trial as an exhibit, but the Subpoena must identify the object.
Notice of examination (6) The examining party shall give notice of examination of a person Under this rule by delivering copies of the subpoena to all Parties of record not less than 7 days before the day appointed For the examination.
Mode of examination (7) The proposed witness shall be cross-examined by the party who Obtained the order, then may be cross-examined by any other party, And then may be further cross-examined by the party who obtained The order.
Application of examination for discovery rules (8) Rule 27 (15), (20) and (22) to (26) apply to an examination under This rule.
Rule 29 — discovery by interrogatories Service of and answer to interrogatories (1) A party to an action may serve on any other party, or on a Director, officer, partner, agent, employee or external auditor of A party, interrogatories in form 22 relating to a matter in Question in the action, and the person to whom the interrogatories Are directed shall, within 21 days, deliver an answer on affidavit To the interrogatories. the party serving the interrogatories Shall notify all other parties of record.
Where a party is a body of persons (2) Where a party to an action is a body of persons, corporate or Unincorporate, empowered to sue or to be sued, in its own name or In the name of an officer or other person, the court may, on the Application of any other party, make an order allowing that other Party to serve interrogatories on the officer or member of the Body specified in the order.
Time for service (3) The plaintiff may serve interrogatories after the expiration of Time for delivery of the statement of defence of the party to be Examined, and the defendant may serve interrogatories after the Defendant has delivered a statement of defence.
Where more than one person to answer interrogatories (4) Where interrogatories are required to be answered by more than one Person who is an officer, director, partner, agent or employee of A party, the interrogatories shall state which of the Interrogatories each person is required to answer.
Objection to answer interrogatory (5) Where a person objects to answering an interrogatory on the ground Of privilege or on the ground that it does not relate to a matter In question in the action, the person may make the objection in an Affidavit in answer.
Insufficient answer to interrogatory (6) Where a person to whom interrogatories have been directed answers Any of them insufficiently, the court may require the person to Make a further answer either by affidavit or on oral examination.
Application to strike out interrogatory (7) Where a party objects to an interrogatory on the grounds that it Is not necessary for disposing fairly of the action or that the Costs of answering would be unreasonable, that party may apply to The court to strike out the interrogatory, and the court shall Take into account any offer by him to make admissions, to produce Documents or to give oral discovery.
Delivery of interrogatories to solicitor (8) A party may, instead of serving interrogatories under subrule (1) Or (2), deliver the interrogatories to the solicitor of the person To whom the interrogatories are directed.
Idem
(9) Where a solicitor receives interrogatories under subrule (8), the Solicitor shall forthwith inform the person to whom the Interrogatories are directed.
Continuing obligation to answer (10) Where a person who has given an answer to an interrogatory later Learns that the answer is inaccurate or incomplete, the person is Under a continuing obligation to deliver to the party who served The interrogatory on affidavit deposing to an accurate or complete Answer.
Rule 30 — physical examination and inspection Order for medical examination (1) Where the physical or mental condition of a person is in issue in A proceeding, the court may order that the person submit to Examination by a medical practitioner or other qualified person, And if the court makes an order, it may make (a) An order respecting any expenses connected with the examination, And
(b) An order that the result of the examination be put in writing and That copies be made available to interested parties.
Subsequent examinations (2) The court may order a further examination under this rule.
Questions by examiner (3) A person who is making an examination under this rule may ask any Relevant question concerning the medical condition or history of The person being examined.
Order for inspection and preservation of property (4) Where the court considers it necessary or expedient for the Purpose of obtaining full information or evidence, it may order The production, inspection and preservation of any property and Authorize samples to be taken or observations to be made or Experiments to be conducted on or with the property.
Entry upon land or buildings (5) For the purpose of enabling an order under this rule to be carried Out, the court may authorize a person to enter upon any land or Building.
Application to persons outside british coiumbia (6) Rule 27 (26) applies to examinations and inspections ordered under This rule.
Rule 31 — admissions Notice to admit (1) By delivery of a notice to admit in form 23, a party may request Any other party to admit, for the purposes of a proceeding only, The truth of a fact or the authenticity of a document specified in The notice.
Effect of notice to admit (2) Unless the court otherwise orders, the truth of a fact or the Authenticity of a document specified in the notice to admit shall Be deemed to be admitted, for the purposes of the proceeding only, Unless, within 14 days, the party receiving the notice delivers to The party giving the notice a written statement that (a) Specifically denies the truth of that fact or the authenticity of That document, (b) Sets forth in detail the reasons why the party cannot make the Admission, or (c) States that the refusal to admit the truth of that fact or the Authenticity of that document is made on the grounds of privilege Or irrelevancy or that the request is otherwise improper, and sets Forth in detail the reasons for the refusal.
Copy of document to be attached (3) Unless the court otherwise orders, a copy of a document specified In a notice to admit shall be attached to the notice when it is Delivered.
Unreasonable refusal to admit (4) Where a party unreasonably denies or refuses to admit the truth of A fact or the authenticity of a document, the court may order the Party to pay the costs of proving the truth of the fact or the Authenticity of the document and may award as a penalty additional Costs, or deprive a party of costs, as the court thinks just.
Withdrawal of admission (5) A party is not entitled to withdraw (a) An admission made in response to a notice to admit, (b) A deemed admission under subrule (2), or (c) An admission made in a pleading Except by consent or with leave of the court.
Application for order on admissions (6) An application for judgment or any other application may be made To the court using as evidence (a) Admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a Document made (i) If in an affidavit or pleading filed by a party, (ii) In an examination for discovery of a party or a person examined For discovery on behalf of a party, (iii) In response to a notice to admit, or (b) Admissions of the truth of a fact or the authenticity of a Document deemed to be made under subrule (2) And the court may, without waiting for the determination of any Other question between the parties, make any order it thinks just.
Notice of agreed statement of facts (7) Each party shall, not less than 45 days before the day fixed for The trial to begin, deliver to each of the other parties adverse In interest, a notice in form 21 requesting those other parties to Admit those facts, set out in the notice, that the party Delivering the notice considers are not in dispute.
Application to court (8) Where a party (a) Fails to deliver a notice under subrule (7), or (b) Unreasonably refuses to admit the truth of a fact contained in a Notice to admit delivered under that subrule, The court may, on application, award additional costs against that Party or deprive that party of costs, as the court thinks just.
Commencement — subrules (7) and (8) (9) In respect of proceedings commenced before september 1, 1990, Subrules (7) and (8) apply only to proceedings where notice of Trial had been issued before that date.
Rule 32 — inquiries, assessments and accounts Direction for inquiries, assessments or accounts (1) At any stage of a proceeding the court may direct an inquiry, Assessment or accounting to be held by a master, registrar or Special referee.
Certificate as to result (2) The court may direct that the result of an inquiry, assessment or Accounting held by a master, registrar or special referee be Certified by that person, and the certificate, when filed, shall Be binding on the parties to the proceeding.
Report and recommendation (3) Where the court does not direct that the result of an inquiry, Assessment or accounting be certified, then the result of the Inquiry, assessment or accounting shall be stated in the form of a Report and recommendation to the court.
Application to vary or confirm recommendation (4) On application by a party, the court may vary or confirm the Recommendation or remit the matter.
Time and place of hearing (5) A master, registrar or special referee may hold a hearing at a Convenient time and place, may adjourn it from time to time, may Administer oaths, take evidence, direct production of documents And give general directions for the conduct of the hearing.
Appointment
(6) A party proceeding with an inquiry, assessment or accounting shall Take out an appointment in form 24 and shall serve notice of it Upon all parties of record or as directed by the court.
Witnesses
(7) A party to a proceeding in which an inquiry, assessment or Accounting is held may subpoena any person, including a party, to Give evidence at the hearing and to produce documents.
Certificate or recommendation to be filed and served (8) A master, registrar or special referee shall state the result of An inquiry, assessment or accounting in the form of a certificate Or report and recommendation as directed, with or without reasons, And shall provide the party who took out the appointment with the Certificate or report and recommendation and the party shall file It and deliver a copy to all persons served with notice under Subrule (6).
Opinion of the court (9) Before the master, registrar or special referee has concluded a Hearing he or she may, in a summary or other manner, ask the Opinion of the court on any matter arising in the hearing.
Accounts of executor, trustee, etc.
(10) A person may apply by petition for the furnishing of accounts by The executor or administrator of an estate, a trustee, a receiver, A liquidator, guardian or partner.
Special directions (11) The court may give special directions as to the manner in which an Inquiry, assessment or accounting is to be taken or made, and the Directions may include (a) The manner in which the inquiry, assessment or accounting is to be Prosecuted,
(b) The evidence to be adduced in support, (c) The parties required to attend all or any part of the proceedings, (d) The time within which each proceeding is to be taken, and (e) A direction that persons whose interest can be classified shall Constitute a class and be represented by the same solicitor and, Where the persons cannot agree on the solicitor to represent them, The court may appoint the solicitor to represent them, And the court may fix a time for the further attendance of the Parties.
Varying directions (12) The court may vary or rescind a direction given under subrule (11).
Form of account (13) Where an account is directed to be taken, unless the court Otherwise orders, the accounting party shall make out that party's Account and verify it by an affidavit to which the account shall Be exhibited. the items on each side of the account shall be Numbered consecutively, and the accounting party shall file the Affidavit and the account and deliver copies to all parties of Record.
Particulars of errors in account (14) A party who alleges that there are errors or omissions in an Account shall file and deliver to all parties of record a notice Thereof with brief particulars.
Recommendation on accounting (15) Where an accounting is directed, the certificate or report and Recommendation shall state the result of the accounting and must Specify which of the items have been disallowed or varied and what Additions or deletions have been made by way of surcharge or Otherwise.
Notice of order (16) Where in a proceeding relating to (i) The administration of the estate of a deceased person, (ii) The execution of a trust, or (iii) The sale of any property, The court makes an order which directs any inquiry, assessment or Accounting to be taken or made, the court may direct notice of the Order in form 25 to be served on any person interested in the Estate or under the trust or in the property, and any person Served with notice of an order in accordance with this rule shall, Subject to subrule (18), be bound by the order to the same extent As the person would have been if the person had originally been Made a party to the action.
Dispensing with service (17) The court may dispense with service on a person in any case where It appears it is impractical for any reason to serve the person And may also order that person shall be bound by any order made to The same extent as if the person had been served with notice of The order, and the person shall be bound accordingly except where The order was obtained by fraud or non-disclosure of material Facts.
Person may apply to vary or rescind (18) A person served with notice, within 28 days after service of the Notice on him, without entering an appearance, may apply to the Court to vary or rescind the order.
Person may enter appearance (19) A person served with notice may, after entering an appearance in Form 7, take part in the proceeding.
Rule 33 — special case Statement of special case (1) The parties to a proceeding may concur in stating a question of Law or fact, or partly of law and partly of fact, in the form of a Special case for the opinion of the court.
Court may order special case (2) The court may order a question or issue arising in a proceeding, Whether of fact or law or partly of fact and partly of law, and Whether raised by the pleadings or otherwise, to be stated in the Form of a special case.
Form of special case (3) A special case must (a) Be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, (b) State concisely such facts and set out or refer to such documents As may be necessary to enable the court to decide the questions Stated, and (c) Be signed by the parties or their solicitors.
Hearing of special case (4) On the hearing of a special case, the court and the parties may Refer to any document mentioned in the special case, and the court May draw from the stated facts and documents any inference, Whether of fact or law, that might have been drawn from them if Proved at a trial or hearing.
Order after hearing of special case (5) With the consent of the parties, on any question in a special case Being answered, the court may grant specific relief or order Judgment to be entered.
Rule 34 — proceedings on a point of law Point of law may be set down for hearing (1) A point of law arising from the pleadings may, by consent of the Parties or by order of the court, be set down by praecipe for Hearing and disposed of at any time before the trial.
Court may dispose of whole action (2) Where, in the opinion of the court, the decision on the point of Law substantially disposes of the whole action or of any distinct Claim, ground of defence, set-off, counterclaim or reply, the Court may dismiss the action or make any order it thinks just.
Rule 35 — pre-trial conference Request for pre-trial conference (1) A party, having delivered or received a notice of trial, may Request the holding of a pre-trial conference at a time and place To be fixed by the registrar.
Order for pre-trial conference (2) On a request being received or on his or her own initiative at any Stage of an action, a judge or master may direct that a pre-trial Conference, mini-trial or settlement conference be held.
Agenda of pre-trial conference (3) A pre-trial conference shall be attended by the solicitors for the Parties, or the parties themselves, and shall consider (a) The simplification of the issues, (b) The necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings, (c) The possibility of obtaining admissions which might facilitate the Trial,
(d) The quantum of damages, (e) Fixing a date for the trial, and (f) Any other matters that may aid in the disposition of the action or The attainment of justice.
Order following pre-trial conference (4) At a pre-trial conference, the judge or master may, whether or not On the application of a party, order that (a) The trial, or part of it, be heard by the court without a jury, on Any of the grounds set out in rule 39 (27), (b) The pleadings be amended or closed within a fixed time, (c) A party file and deliver, within a fixed time, to each other party As specified by the judge, a list of documents or an affidavit Verifying a list of documents in accordance with the directions That the judge or master may give, (d) Interlocutory applications be brought within a fixed time or by a Specified date, (e) A statement of agreed facts be filed within a fixed time or by a Specified date, (f) A general application for directions be brought within a fixed Time or by a specified date, (g) All procedures for discovery be conducted in accordance with a Schedule and plan that the court directs, and the plan may set Limitations on those discovery procedures, (h) The obligation to pay conduct money to any of the parties or Persons to be examined be allocated in the manner specified in the Order,
(i) A party deliver a written summary of the proposed evidence of a Witness within a fixed time or by a specified date, (j) The parties attend a mini-trial or a settlement conference, (k) Experts who have been retained by the parties confer, on a without Prejudice basis, to determine those matters on which they agree And to identify those matters on which they do not agree, and (1) The action be set for trial on a particular date or on a Particular trial list, subject to the approval of the chief Justice,
And, on making an order under this subrule, the judge or master May give other directions that he or she thinks just or necessary.
Idem
(5) Where the judge or master orders or directs that the parties Attend a mini-trial, the parties shall attend before a judge or Master who shall, in camera and without hearing witnesses, give a Non-binding opinion on the probable outcome of a trial of the Proceeding.
Idem
(6) Where the judge or master orders or directs that the parties Attend a settlement conference, the parties shall attend before a Judge or master who shall, in camera and without hearing Witnesses, explore all possibilities of settlement of the issues That are outstanding.
Pre-trial judge may preside (7) A judge who presides at a pre-trial conference is not seized of The action, and a trial of the action may be heard by that judge Or by any other judge.
When judge shall not preside (8) A judge who has heard a mini-trial or who has attended at a Settlement conference shall not preside at the trial, unless all Parties of record consent.
Rule 36 — discontinuance and withdrawal Discontinuance by plaintiff (1) At any time before an action is set down for trial, a plaintiff May discontinue it in whole or in part against a defendant by Filing and delivering a notice of discontinuance in form 26 to Each party of record.
Idem
(2) After an action has been set down for trial, a plaintiff may Discontinue it in whole or in part against a defendant with the Consent of all parties of record or by leave of the court.
Withdrawal by defendant (3) A defendant may withdraw his or her defence or any part of it with Respect to any plaintiff at any time by filing a notice of Withdrawal in form 27 and delivering a copy of it to each party of Record.
Costs and default procedure on discontinuance or withdrawal (4) Subject to subrule (2), a person wholly discontinuing an action or Wholly withdrawing his defence against a party shall pay the costs Of that party to the date of delivery of the notice of Discontinuance or withdrawal and if a plaintiff, liable for costs Under this rule, subsequently brings a proceeding for the same or Substantially the same claim before paying those costs, the court May order the proceeding to be stayed until the costs are paid.
Idem
(5) Where a plaintiff discontinues the whole or any part of an action In which a person has been joined as a third party, the third Party, if the discontinuance disposes of the claim against the Third party, is entitled to costs and may apply to the court for a Direction as to who should pay them.
Idem
(6) A plaintiff's right to recover costs from a defendant under Subrule (4) does not preclude the plaints from recovering other Costs properly incurred.
Idem
(7) Where a defendant wholly or partly withdraws his defence under This rule, the plaintiff may proceed under rule 25 as though the Defendant had delivered no statement of defence or only a partial Statement of defence.
Discontinuance not a defence (8) Unless otherwise ordered, the discontinuance of an action in whole Or in part is not a defence to a subsequent proceeding for the Same or substantially the same cause of action.
Application to counterclaim, etc.
(9) This rule applies to a counterclaim, a third party proceeding and A petition.
Rule 37 — payment into and out of court Payment into court by defendant (1) At any time before the commencement of the trial, a defendant may Pay into court a sum of money in satisfaction of the whole or part Of a claim for which the plaintiff sues.
Allocation of money in court (2) Where money belonging to a defendant is paid into court pursuant To a garnishing order or other order of the court, the defendant May allocate all or part of it as a payment into court under this Rule.
Money to remain in court (3) Money paid into court shall remain in court subject to further Order unless the plaintiff elects to accept it under this rule.
Payment into court by third party (4) At any time before the commencement of the trial a third party may Pay into court a sum of money in satisfaction of the whole or part Of the defendant's claim against that third party.
Payment into court not an admission (5) Payment of money into court shall not be deemed an admission of Liability.
Where tender before action pleaded (6) Where a tender before action is pleaded, the sum alleged to have Been tendered shall be paid forthwith into court.
Notice of payment in (7) When a party pays moneys into court the party shall file a notice Of payment in form 28 and shall forthwith deliver a copy to each Party of record, and, unless otherwise ordered by the court, the Notice must specify the party for whom and the claim in respect of Which payment in is made, and may specify the sum paid in respect Of each claim.
Acceptance of money paid in (8) Subject to subrules (9) and (10), where money is paid into court Under this rule, except under subrule (6), a party, at any time Before the commencement of the trial, may accept and take out of Court the whole sum or any one or more of the specified sums paid In, in satisfaction of that party's claim or claims, by filing and Delivering to each party of record a notice in form 29.
Acceptance of money paid in by third party (9) Money paid into court by a third party shall not be taken out of Court by a defendant without leave of the court.
Acceptance by party not personally entitled (10) If a party is not personally entitled to the money, the money may Only be accepted and paid out by leave of the court.
Costs on acceptance (11) If the defendant does not allege tender before action and the Plaintiff takes the money in satisfaction of all the plaintiff's Claims, the plaintiff may assess costs reasonably incurred up to 7 Days after delivery to the plaintiff of a copy of the notice under Subrule (7), and the defendant may assess costs reasonably Incurred after the expiry of 7 days after delivery to the Plaintiff of the notice.
Where successful defence of tender (12) Unless the court otherwise orders, where the defendant alleges Tender before action and at the trial succeeds on that defence, The defendant may assess costs and the amount allowed the Defendant shall be paid out of the money in court and the balance Shall be paid to the plaintiff.
Plaintiff's election where tender alleged (13) Unless the court otherwise orders, where the defendant alleges Tender before action and the plaintiff elects to take the money in Satisfaction, the defendant may assess costs and the amount Allowed the defendant shall be paid out of the money in court and The balance shall be paid to the plaintiff.
Payment in by joint or alternative defendants (14) Subject to subrule (15), no party sued jointly with another party May pay money into court except jointly with that other party.
Joint defendants in libel or slander action (15) In an action for libel or slander against several defendants sued Jointly, a defendant may pay money into court and the plaintiff, At any time before the commencement of the trial, may elect to Accept the sum paid into court in satisfaction of the plaintiff's Claim against that defendant by filing and delivering to each Party of record a notice in form 28.
Acceptance as a stay (16) Where money has been accepted under this rule, all further Proceedings in the action or in respect of the specified claim, or Part of the claim, except for recovery of costs, are stayed.
Plaintiff proceeding after payment in (17) Where the plaintiff proceeds with an action and recovers an amount Equal to or less than the amount paid into court, (a) The plaintiff may assess costs reasonably incurred up to delivery To the plaintiff of a copy of the notice under subrule (7) and, Provided the notice was delivered at least 7 days before the Commencement of the trial, the defendant may assess costs Reasonably incurred after delivery of the notice to the plaintiff, But if the notice was delivered less than 7 days before the Commencement of the trial, the costs of any steps taken by the Parties subsequent to delivery shall be in the discretion of the Court, and (b) The amount paid in shall be applied in satisfaction of the Plaintiff's judgment after set-off of the defendant's costs, if Any, and any balance shall be repaid to the defendant.
Idem
(18) Where the plaintiff proceeds with an action and judgment is given For the defendant in respect of the claim, the whole amount paid In by the defendant shall be repaid to the defendant.
Defendant proceeding after payment in (19) Where the defendant proceeds with his third party proceeding and Recovers an amount equal to or less than the amount paid into Court,
(a) The defendant may assess costs reasonably incurred up to delivery To the defendant of notice under subrule (7), and provided the Notice was delivered at least 7 days before the commencement of The trial, the third party may assess costs reasonably incurred After the delivery of the notice to the defendant, but if the Notice was delivered less than 7 days before the commencement of The trial, the costs of any steps taken by the parties subsequent To that delivery shall be in the discretion of the court, and (b) The amount paid in shall be applied in satisfaction of the Defendant's judgment after set-off of the third party's costs, if Any, and any balance shall be repaid to the third party.
Idem
(20) Where the defendant proceeds with his third party proceeding and Judgment is given for the third party in respect of the claim, the Whole amount paid in by the third party shall be repaid to the Third party.
Payment in not to be communicated to the court (21) Except in an action to which a defence of tender before action is Pleaded, no statement of the fact that money has been paid into Court shall be inserted in the pleadings and no communication of That fact shall be made to the court or a jury until all questions Of liability and amount of the debt or damages have been decided.
Surrender of counterclaim as payment in (22) Where a counterclaim is made, a defendant may offer to surrender His counterclaim, or may pay into court a sum of money and offer To surrender the counterclaim, in satisfaction of one or more of The plaintiff's claims in settlement of the action and Counterclaim.
Stay on acceptance (23) Where a counterclaim is accepted in satisfaction or part Satisfaction, the counterclaim is stayed.
Application of rules to counterclaim (24) Subrules (1) to (21) apply to the offer to surrender a Counterclaim as though it were payment of money into court.
In libel or slander actions (25) A plaintiff in an action for libel or slander who takes money out Of court may apply to the court for leave to make in open court a Statement in terms approved by the court.
Payment to solicitor (26) Where provision is made in this rule for payment out to a party, The money may, with the party's written authorization, be paid to The party's solicitor.
Special circumstances (27) In special circumstances the court may order that payment out of Moneys in court be made to the solicitor for a party entitled to The moneys, rather than to the party.
Payment in for infant (28) Where money is paid into court to the credit of an infant, a copy Of the birth certificate of the infant, or other proof to the Satisfaction of the registrar of the name and date of birth of the Infant, shall be filed, unless the registrar dispenses with the Filing.
Payment out of money held for infant (29) In support of an application for payment out of money paid in Under subrule (28), the applicant shall file a declaration in form 30.
Interest under the Court order interest act (30) In this rule, a sum of money paid into court in satisfaction of The whole or part of a claim includes interest under the Court order interest act , where applicable, to the date of payment in, but does not Include costs.
Rule 38 — depositions Examination of person (1) By consent of the parties or by order of the court, a person may Be examined on oath before trial, before an official reporter, or Any other person the court may direct, in order that the Deposition be available to be tendered as evidence at the trial.
Grounds for order (2) In exercising its discretion to order an examination under subrule (1), the court shall take into account (a) The convenience of the person sought to be examined, (b) The possibility that the person may be unavailable to testify at The trial by reason of death, infirmity, sickness or absence, (c) The possibility that the person will be beyond the jurisdiction of The court at the time of the trial, and (d) The expense of bringing the person to the trial.
Subpoena
(3) Where a party is entitled to examine a person under this rule, by Serving on that person or a party a subpoena in form 21, the party May require the person or the party to bring to the examination (a) Any document in the person's possession or power relating to the Matters in question in the action, without the necessity of Identifying the document, and (b) Any physical object in the person's possession or power which the Examining party contemplates tendering at the trial as an exhibit, But the subpoena shall identify the object.
Place of examination (4) Unless the court otherwise orders, or the parties to the Examination consent, an examination under this rule shall take Place at the registry nearest to the place where the person to be Examined resides.
Application of rule outside british columbia (5) So far as is practical this rule applies to the examination of a Person residing outside british columbia, and the court may order The examination of a person in the place and the manner it thinks Just and convenient.
Where person willing to testify (6) If the person to be examined is willing to testify, the order Shall be in form 31 and the instructions to the examiner appointed In the order shall be in form 32.
Where person not willing to testify (7) If the person to be examined is unwilling to testify, or if for Any other reason the assistance of a foreign court is necessary, The order shall be in form 33 and the letter of request referred To in the order shall be in form 34.
Letter of request (8) Where an order is made under subrule (7), the letter of request Shall be sent by the party obtaining the order to the under Secretary of state for external affairs of canada (or, if the Evidence is to be taken in canada, to the deputy attorney general For the province of british columbia), and shall have attached to It
(a) Any interrogatories to be put to the witness, (b) A list of the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the Solicitors or agents of the parties, both in british columbia and In the other jurisdiction, and (c) A copy of the letter of request and any interrogatories translated Into the appropriate official language of the jurisdiction where The examination is to take place and bearing the certificate of The translator that it is a true translation and giving his or her Full name and address.
Filing of undertaking (9) The solicitor for the party obtaining the order shall file with The under secretary of state for external affairs of canada (or The deputy attorney general for the province of british columbia, As the case may be) his or her undertaking to be personally Responsible for all the charges and expenses incurred by the under Secretary (or the deputy attorney general, as the case may be) in Respect of the letter of request and to pay them on receiving Notification of the amount.
Notice of examination (10) Notice of examination of a person under this rule shall be given By the examining party delivering copies of the subpoena to the Person to be examined and to all parties of record not less than 7 Days before the day appointed for the examination.
Mode of examination (11) The examining party shall examine the witness, who shall be Subject to cross-examination and re-examination.
Objection to question (12) If an objection is made to a question put to a witness in an Examination under this rule, the question and the objection shall Be taken down by the official reporter and the validity of the Objection may be decided by the court, which may order the witness To submit to further examination.
Recording of deposition evidence (13) Unless otherwise ordered, the deposition shall be recorded either By
(a) The official court reporter in the form of questions and answers, Or
(b) On videotape or film.
Perpetuating testimony (14) A person who, under the circumstances alleged by the person to Exist, would become entitled, on the happening of any future Event, to an estate or interest in property, the right or claim to Which cannot by the person be brought to trial or hearing before The happening of the event, may apply by originating application For an order to perpetuate any testimony which may be material for Establishing the right or claim by examination under this rule.
Rule 39 — trial Application
(1) This rule applies to (a) An action, (b) An originating application that is transferred to the trial list Under rule 52 (11), and (c) Subject to rule 60b, the hearing of a divorce proceeding.
When notice of trial may be given (2) Notice of trial in form 35 may be delivered by a plaintiff after The time has expired for the delivery of a statement of defence or By any party after the close of pleadings.
Issue of notice of trial (3) A party may obtain a trial date from the registry where the trial Is to be held.
Idem
(4) The court may direct that an action be set down for trial at a Particular time and place and that the notice of trial be issued By the registry.
Idem
(5) The notice of trial must be issued from the registry where the Writ was issued or to which the proceeding has been transferred For all purposes.
Delivery of notice of trial (6) Within 7 days after issue of the notice of trial, and not less Than 28 days before trial, the notice of trial shall be delivered By the party obtaining it to all other parties of record.
Place of trial (7) The place of trial shall be the place named in the statement of Claim, but the court may order that the place of trial be changed Or that the trial be heard partly in one place and partly in Another.
Time of trial (8) The trial shall be heard on the day appointed by the notice of Trial or so soon thereafter as may be convenient.
Court may adjourn trial date, etc.
(9) The court may order the adjournment of a trial or fix the date of Trial of an action or issue, or order that a trial shall take Precedence over another trial.
Duty to inform registry (10) Each party to an action entered for trial shall give the registry Without delay all available information as to the settlement of The action or affecting the estimated length of the trial.
Record for the court (11) (a) The party requesting a trial date shall file a record for the Court which must contain (i) The pleadings as amended, (ii) Particulars delivered pursuant to a demand together with the Demand made, (iii) A property and financial statement delivered in a proceeding under Rule 60a, (iv) A certificate of readiness in form 36, and (v) Any order made governing the conduct of the trial.
(b) The registrar may direct inclusion in the record of any document He or she thinks necessary or may reject a record which in the Registrar's opinion does not contain all the pleadings, contains a Document other than those set out in paragraph (a), or is Illegible.
(c) Each document referred to in paragraph (a) of this subrule that is Required for the record shall contain in the upper right hand Corner of the first page of the document (i) The registry office and number of the proceeding, and (ii) Below the registry office and number, the date that the document Was filed, or, where it was not filed, the date that the document Was prepared, completed or made.
Idem
(12) The party who obtained the notice of trial shall deliver a copy of The record when delivering the notice of trial under subrule (6).
Amended record (13) Where a pleading is amended after delivery of the record, the Party who obtained the notice of trial, at least one day before The trial, shall file an amended record and deliver a copy to all Parties of record.
Direction as to record (14) Where the court directs that an action be set down for trial under Subrule (4), it may also direct one of the parties to prepare, File and deliver a record.
Case management program (15) Where the certificate of readiness (form 36) contains an estimate That the trial of the action will be 10 days or longer, no trial Date shall be assigned until all parties of record have filed an Agreed case management program.
What case management program must contain (16) The case management program must contain a statement of the Following:
(a) What amendments to the pleadings, if any, are contemplated; (b) Whether the joinder of further parties is contemplated, and if so, The particulars; (c) What discovery procedures have been completed and what further Discovery procedures are contemplated; (d) Whether interrogatories or further interrogatories are Contemplated;
(e) When all procedures respecting notices to admit facts and the Preparation of a statement of agreed facts will be completed; (f) When all expert witness reports will be exchanged and whether a Conference of expert witnesses is contemplated; (g) A statement of all pre-trial applications that are contemplated; (h) The basis upon which the estimate of the length of the trial was Made;
(i) Whether a trial of separate issues before or after the main trial Is contemplated; (j) The advisability of the appointment of an assessor or an expert or Of a reference to a special referee or a registrar; (k) A statement respecting the probability of settlement and the Advisability of a settlement conference; (l) Whether a mini-trial on some or all of the issues is likely or Advisable;
(m) Any other matters that the parties consider will promote Expeditious and timely conduct of the proceedings.
Where parties cannot agree (17) Where the parties cannot agree on the content of a case management Program, any party may request that a pre-trial conference be held At a time and place fixed by the registrar.
Judge or master may settle (18) At a pre-trial conference, a judge or master may (a) Settle the terms of the case management program, and (b) Make any order that may be made under rule 35 (4).
Trial certificate (19) Each party of record shall, not less than 14 days before the Scheduled trial date, file a trial certificate in form 37.
What certificate must contain (20) The trial certificate must contain the following:
(a) A statement that the party filing it will be ready to proceed on The scheduled trial date; (b) The current estimate of the length of the trial; (c) A statement certifying that the party has (i) Delivered a notice to admit facts under rule 31 (7), and (ii) Completed all examinations for discovery.
Service
(21) After filing the trial certificate, the party shall serve it on All other parties of record.
Failure to file (22) Where no party of record files a trial certificate, the trial Shall be removed from the trial list.
Idem
(23) A party who fails to file a completed trial certificate under Subrule (19) is not, without leave of the court, entitled to Conduct further discovery procedures or to make further Interlocutory applications.
Trial without jury generally (24) Subject to subrule (26), a trial shall be heard by the court Without a jury.
Trial without jury in certain proceedings (25) A trial shall be heard by the court without a jury where it Relates to (a) The administration of the estate of a deceased person, (b) The dissolution of a partnership or the taking of partnership or Other accounts, (c) The redemption or foreclosure of a mortgage, (d) The sale and distribution of the proceeds of property subject to Any lien or charge, (e) The execution of trusts, (f) The rectification, setting aside or cancellation of a deed or Other written instrument, (g) The specific performance of a contract, (h) The partition or sale of real estate, (i) The custody or guardianship of an infant or the care of an Infant's estate, or (j) A matter referred to in rule 10 (1), Notice requiring jury trial (26) Subject to subrule (25), a party may require that the trial of an Action be heard by the court with a jury by filing and delivering To all parties of record, within 21 days after delivery of the Notice of trial and not later than 30 days before trial, a notice In form 38.
Court may refuse jury trial (27) Except in cases of defamation, false imprisonment and malicious Prosecution, a party to whom a notice under subrule (26) has been Delivered may apply (a) Within 7 days for an order that the trial or part of it be heard By the court without a jury on the ground that (i) The issues require prolonged examination of documents or accounts Or a scientific or local investigation which cannot be made Conveniently with a jury, or (ii) The issues are of an intricate or complex character, or (b) At any time for an order that the trial be heard by the court Without a jury on the ground that it relates to one of the matters Referred to in subrule (25).
Trial with assessor (28) The court may at any time order a trial to be heard wholly or Partially by the court sitting with an assessor, and the court may Fix the remuneration for the assessor and the remuneration shall Form part of the costs of the action.
Trial of one question before others (29) The court may order that one or more questions of fact or law Arising in an action be tried and determined before the others, And upon the determination a party may move for judgment, and the Court, if satisfied that the determination is conclusive of all or Some of the issues between the parties, may grant judgment.
Trial by different modes of trial (30) The court may order that different questions of fact arising in an Action be tried by different modes of trial.
Calculation of amount by officer of the court (31) In an action in which it appears that the amount to be recovered Is substantially a matter of calculation, the court may direct an Inquiry, assessment or accounting under rule 32.
Failure of all parties to appear at trial (32) Where no party appears when the trial of an action is called, the Action shall be struck off the trial list.
Failure of one party to appear at trial (33) Where a party does not appear when the trial of an action is Called, the court may proceed with the trial, including hearing a Counterclaim, in the absence of that party.
Court may set aside judgment (34) The court may set aside a verdict or judgment obtained where a Party does not appear at the trial.
Commencement — subrules (15) to (18) (35) In respect of proceedings commenced before september 1, 1990, Subrules (15) to (18) apply only to proceedings where a Certificate of readiness had been filed before that date.
Commencement — subrules (19) to (23) (36) In respect of proceedings commenced before september 1, 1990, Subrules (19) to (23) apply only to proceedings where a notice of Trial had been issued before that date.
Rule 40 — evidence and procedure at trial Application
(1) This rule applies to all trials other than summary trials under Rule 18a.
Witness to testify orally (2) Subject to any enactment and these rules, (a) A witness at a trial of an action shall testify in open court, and (b) Unless the parties otherwise agree, the witness shall testify Orally.
Court may vary order (3) An order made under this rule concerning the mode of proving a Fact or document or of adducing evidence may be revoked or varied By a subsequent order made at or before the trial.
Use of transcript of other proceedings (4) Where a witness is dead, or is unable to attend and testify Because of age, infirmity, sickness or imprisonment or is out of The jurisdiction or his or her attendance cannot be secured by Subpoena, the court may permit a transcript of any evidence of That witness taken in any proceeding, hearing or inquiry at which The evidence was taken under oath, whether or not involving the Same parties to be put in as evidence, but reasonable notice shall Be given of the intention to give that evidence.
Transcript for the court (5) In an action in which evidence or argument is taken down by an Official reporter, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, if Required by the court, to furnish it with a certified transcript Of the evidence or argument or any portion of it, the costs of Which shall form part of the costs of the action, but where Payment of the costs of providing a transcript would be a hardship On a party, the court may order that the transcript be prepared at The expense of the crown.
Use of recording device by counsel (6) Counsel for a party may use a recording device to record evidence, Provided it does not interfere with the trial.
Failure to prove a material fact (7) Where a party omits or fails to prove some fact material to the Party's case, the court may proceed with the trial, subject to That fact being afterwards proved as the court shall direct, and, (a) If the case is being tried by a jury, the court may direct the Jury to find a verdict as if that fact had been proved, and, (b) Unless the court otherwise orders, judgment shall be entered According to whether or not that fact is or is not afterwards Proved as directed.
No evidence motion (8) At the close of the plaintiffs case, the defendant may apply to Have the action dismissed on the ground that there is no evidence To support the plaintiffs case.
Idem
(9) A defendant is entitled to make an application under subrule (8) Without being called upon to elect whether or not to call Evidence.
Insufficient evidence motion (10) At the close of the plaintiff's case, the defendant may apply to Have the action dismissed on the ground that the evidence is Insufficient to make out the plaintiff's case.
Idem
(11) Unless the court otherwise orders, an application under subrule (10) may be made only after the defendant has elected not to call Evidence.
Notice to produce (12) By delivering a notice in form 39 at least 2 days before a trial, A party may require any other party to bring to the trial (a) Any document in the other party's possession or power relating to The matters in question in the action, without the necessity of Identifying the document, and (b) Any physical object in the other party's possession or power which The party contemplates tendering at the trial as an exhibit, but The notice shall identify the object.
Opportunity to inspect exhibit (13) Unless the court otherwise orders or the parties agree, no plan, Photograph or object shall be received in evidence at the trial of An action unless, at least 7 days before the commencement of the Trial, the parties have been given an opportunity to inspect it.
Registry to take charge of exhibits (14) A clerk of the registry shall take charge of each document or Object put in as an exhibit, mark or label each exhibit with a Number, and make a list of the exhibits, giving a short Description of each and stating by whom it was tendered.
Return of exhibits (15) After the time for appeal from judgment has expired or after the Disposition of an appeal, new trial or further appeal, whichever Is latest, the registry may return an exhibit to the party who Tendered it. the parties may agree or the court may order that an Exhibit be returned at an earlier time or to a person other than The party who tendered it.
Disposal of exhibits (16) Where the return of exhibits has not been applied for within one Year from the judgment at trial or on any appeal, new trial or Further appeal, whichever is the latest, the registry, with the Approval of the deputy attorney general, may destroy or otherwise Dispose of them. if any money is received as a result of the Disposal, it shall be paid to the minister of finance and Corporate relations. the exhibit list shall be endorsed to Indicate the date and method of destruction or disposal and the Amount of any money recovered.
Notice of intention to call adverse party as witness (17) A party who desires to call as a witness at the trial an adverse Party, or any director, officer, partner, employee or agent of an Adverse party, may either subpoena the person or give the person Or his or her solicitor at least 7 days' notice in form 40 of the Intention to call him or her as a witness, tendering at the same Time the proper fees. a party may call as a witness a person Referred to in this subrule without payment of fees or previous Notice if the person is in attendance at the trial.
"adverse party" defined (18) For the purpose of subrule (17), "adverse party" means a party who Is adverse in interest.
Refusal of adverse party to testify (19) If a person required to testify under subrule (17) refuses or Neglects to attend at the trial or to remain in attendance at the Trial or refuses to be sworn or to answer a proper question put to Him or her or to produce a document which he or she is required to Produce, the court may pronounce judgment in favour of the party Calling that witness or may adjourn the trial.
Adverse party as witness may be treated as hostile (20) A party calling a witness under subrule (17) is entitled to treat The witness as hostile. cross-examination of the witness by Counsel for the adverse party shall be confined to explanation of Matters brought out in the examination-in-chief. cross-examination Of the witness by other parties may be general or limited, as the Court may direct. re-examination shall be confined to new matters Brought out in cross-examination.
Leading questions (21) Where a witness appears unwilling or unable to give responsive Answers or is hostile, the court may permit the party calling the Witness to examine the witness by means of leading questions.
Any party may contradict testimony (22) A party may contradict or impeach the testimony of any witness.
Use of deposition evidence (23) A transcript, videotape or film of a deposition under rule 38 may Be given in evidence at the trial by any party and, Notwithstanding that the deposition of a witness has or may be Given in evidence, the witness may be called to testify orally at The trial.
Use of videotape, etc.
(24) Where a videotape or film of a deposition is given in evidence Under subrule (23), a transcript of the deposition may also be Given.
Proof of deposition evidence (25) A transcript of a deposition may be given in evidence if certified As an accurate transcription by the person taking the deposition, Without proof of the signature of that person. a videotape or film Of a deposition may be presented as evidence without proof of its Accuracy or completeness, but the court may order such Investigation as it thinks fit to verify the accuracy or Completeness. a videotape or film given in evidence shall become An exhibit at the trial.
Deposition to be given in full (26) Subject to subrule (31), where a deposition is given in evidence, It shall be presented in full.
Use of discovery evidence (27) (a) Except as otherwise provided by this rule, a party may give in Evidence at trial any part of the evidence taken upon an Examination for discovery of a person examined by the party under Rule 27 that would be admissible if given in evidence by that Person at trial.
(b) Where the person examined was, at the time of the examination, a Former director, officer, employee, agent or external auditor of a Party, any part of his or her evidence may be given at trial if Notice has been delivered to all parties at least 14 days before Trial specifying that part of the evidence intended to be given at Trial.
(c) Any party may require the attendance at trial of a person whose Evidence taken on examination is intended to be given under Paragraph (b), and if the evidence is given, all parties may Cross-examine that person, (d) Where part of an examination for discovery is given in evidence, The court may review the whole of that examination and if, Following the review, it considers that another part of the Examination is closely connected with the part given in evidence, It may direct that the other part be put in as evidence.
Discovery evidence of person under disability (28) Where, at the time of an examination for discovery, the person Examined was an infant or a mentally incompetent person, the Examination shall not be given in evidence unless the trial judge, At the time the evidence was tendered, determines that the person, At the time of the examination, was competent to give evidence.
Transcripts of discovery evidence (29) A transcript of an examination for discovery may be given in Evidence if certified as an accurate transcription by the official Reporter without proof of the reporter's signature.
Use of pre-trial examination of a witness (30) A party may give in evidence at the trial part or all of the Examination of a person taken under rule 28 (a) To contradict or impeach the testimony of the deponent at trial, Or
(b) Where the deponent is dead or is unable to attend and testify Because of age, infirmity, sickness or imprisonment or is out of The jurisdiction or his or her attendance cannot be secured by Subpoena and where it is necessary in the interests of justice, But where part only of the examination is given in evidence, the Court may look at the whole of the examination and if it is of the Opinion that any other part is so connected with the part given That the last mentioned part ought not to be used without the Other part it may direct the other part to be put in as evidence.
Objection to transcript evidence at trial (31) At the trial a party may object to the admissibility of any Question and answer in a transcript, videotape or film given in Evidence, although no objection was taken at the examination.
Custody of transcripts (32) If a transcription of an examination for discovery, a pre-trial Examination of a witness or a deposition examination is made, the Party at whose instance the examination was held shall keep the Original transcript unmarked and shall have it available at the Trial.
Use of interrogatories at trial (33) At the trial of an action a party may give in evidence an answer, Or part of an answer, to interrogatories, but the court may look At the whole of the answers and, where it is of the opinion that Any other answer or part of an answer is so connected with an Answer or part thereof given in evidence that the one ought not to Be used without the other, it may direct that the other answer or Part thereof be put in as evidence.
Form of subpoena (34) A subpoena shall be in form 21 and may contain any number of Names.
Party may prepare and serve subpoena (35) A party may prepare a subpoena and serve it on any person.
Subpoena not to be filed or sealed (36) A subpoena need not be filed in or bear the seal of the court.
Service of subpoena (37) A subpoena must be served and, where an affidavit is filed for the Purpose of proving the service, it must state when, where, how and By whom service was effected.
Fees to accompany subpoena (38) A person served with a subpoena is entitled to tender of the Proper fees at the time of service.
Production of documents and physical objects (39) A party, by subpoena in form 21, may require any person to bring To the trial (a) Any document in the person's possession or power relating to the Matters in question, without the necessity of identifying the Document, and (b) Any physical object in the person's possession or power which the Party contemplates tendering at the trial as an exhibit, but the Subpoena shall identify the object to be brought.
Order for attendance of witness in custody (40) The court may order the attendance of a witness who is in the Lawful custody of another person, including the custodian of a Penal institution.
Failure of witness to attend, etc.
(41) Upon proof (a) Of the service of a subpoena on a witness who fails to attend or To remain in attendance in accordance with the requirements of the Subpoena,
(b) That proper witness fees have been paid or tendered to that Witness, and (c) That the presence of that witness is material to the ends of Justice,
The court, by its warrant in form 41 directed to a sheriff or Other officer of the court or to a peace officer, may cause that Witness to be apprehended and forthwith brought before the court And to be detained in custody or released on terms the court may Order, and the court may order that witness to pay the costs Arising from his or her failure to attend or to remain in Attendance.
Order setting aside subpoena (42) A person who has been served with a subpoena may apply to the Court for an order setting aside the subpoena on the grounds that Compliance with it is unnecessary or that it would work a hardship Upon the person, and the court may make any order, as to Postponement of the trial or otherwise, as it thinks just.
Clerk to note time of trial (43) On each day of a trial, a clerk of the registry shall note the Time the trial commences and terminates, the name of each witness And the time the witness' evidence begins and ends.
Affidavit evidence (44) At or before a trial the court may order that some or all of the Evidence at trial may be given by affidavit and, unless the court Otherwise orders, the deponent is subject to cross-examination.
Evidence at trial by affidavit (45) The evidence of a witness may be given by affidavit if a copy of The affidavit is furnished to every party of record by the party Tendering the affidavit at least 30 days before the affidavit is Given in evidence.
Contents
(46) The deponent of an affidavit under subrule (45) may only state What he or she would be permitted to state were the evidence to be Given orally.
Idem
(47) Notwithstanding subrule (45), where an affidavit is furnished less Than 30 days before it is given in evidence, the court may, on the Application of a party or on the court's own motion, order that The affidavit is admissible.
Cross-examination (48) Where an affidavit of a witness is furnished under subrule (45) or (47), any party to the proceeding may, unless the court otherwise Orders, require the witness to be called for cross-examination, Provided that 14 days' notice is given to the party tendering the Affidavit before it is given in evidence.
Idem
(49) Cross-examination under subrule (48) is not confined to matters Contained in the affidavit.
Costs where attendance unnecessary (50) Where a witness has been required to give evidence under subrule (48), and the court is of the opinion that the evidence obtained Does not materially add to the information in the affidavit Furnished under subrule (45) or (47), the court may order the Party that required the attendance of the witness to pay, as Costs, a sum the court considers appropriate.
Court may order deponent to attend (51) The court may, on the application of a party furnished with an Affidavit under subrule (45), order that the evidence contained in The affidavit be given orally where the court considers (a) That the evidence contained in the affidavit is controversial, or (b) There is some other good reason why the evidence should be given Orally.
Evidence of particular facts (52) At or before a trial, the court may order that evidence of a fact Or document may be presented at the trial in any manner, Including,
(a) By statement on oath of information and belief, (b) By documents or entries in books, (c) By copies of documents or entries in books, or (d) By a specified publication which contains a statement of that Fact.
Order of speeches (53) Addresses to the jury or the court shall be as follows:
(a) The party on whom the onus of proof lies may open his case before Giving evidence; (b) At the close of the case of the party who began, the opposite Party, if that party announces his intention to give evidence, may Open his case; (c) At the close of all of the evidence, the party who began may Address the jury or the court, and the opposite party may then Address the jury or the court and the party who began may then Reply and the court may allow the opposite party to be heard in Response to a point raised in the reply; (d) Where a defendant claims a remedy over against a co-defendant, That defendant may address the jury after that co-defendant; (e) Where a party is represented by counsel, the rights conferred by This rule shall be exercised by the party's counsel.
Rule 41 — orders No application for judgment necessary (1) No application for judgment is necessary except where an enactment Or these rules otherwise provides.
Judgment impossible on jury findings (2) Where, after any redirection the court thinks appropriate, a jury Answers some but not all of the questions directed to it, or where The answers are conflicting, so that judgment cannot be pronounced On the findings, the action shall be retried.
Only partial judgment possible on jury findings (3) Where the answers of the jury entitle either party to judgment in Respect of some but not all of the claims, the court may pronounce Judgment on the claims as to which of the answers are sufficient And the remaining claims shall be retried.
Jury failing to reach verdict (4) Where the jury fails to reach a verdict in accordance with the Jury act , the action shall be retried.
Retrial
(5) A retrial under subrules (2) to (4) may take place at the same or Subsequent sittings as the court may direct.
Continuing trial without jury (6) Where, for any reason other than the misconduct of a party or the Party's counsel, a trial with a jury would be retried, the court, With the consent of the party who required a jury trial, may Continue the trial without a jury.
Idem
(7) Where, by reason of the misconduct of a party or the party's Counsel, a trial with a jury would be retried, the court, with the Consent of all parties adverse in interest to the party whose Conduct, or whose counsel's conduct is complained of, may continue The trial without a jury.
Drawing and approving orders (8) An order of the court may be drawn up by any party and, unless the Court otherwise directs, shall be approved in writing by all Parties or their solicitors or counsel, and then left with the Registrar to have the seal of the court affixed, but the order Need not be approved by a party who has not consented to it and Who did not appear or was not represented at the trial or hearing Following which the order was made.
Form of order (9) An order shall be in form 42, 43, 86 or 87.
Endorsement of order on application sufficient in certain cases (10) If an order has been made substantially in the same terms as Requested, if the court endorses the notice of motion, petition or Other document to show that the order has been made or made with Any variations or additional terms shown in the endorsement.
Order granted conditionally on document to be filed (11) If an order may be entered on the filing of a document, the party Shall file the document when leaving the draft order with the Registrar, and the registrar shall examine the document and, if Satisfied that it is sufficient, shall enter the order Accordingly.
Waiver of order obtained upon condition (12) Where a person who has obtained an order upon condition does not Comply with the condition, the person shall be deemed to have Abandoned the order so far as it is beneficial to the person and, Unless the court otherwise directs, any other person interested in The matter may take either the steps the order may warrant or the Steps that might have been taken if the order had not been made.
Effect and form of orders (13) (a) an order of a single judge or master is an order of the court.
(b) Every order shall show on its face the name of the judge who made It, but an order that is not spoken to may show on its face that It was made before a judge if it is approved by a judge.
(c) An order may be approved by any judge.
Date of order (14) (a) an order shall be dated as of the day on which it was Pronounced.
(b) An order made by a registrar shall be dated as of the day on which It is signed by the registrar.
(c) Unless the court otherwise orders, an order takes effect on the Day of its date.
Requirements of consent order (15) No consent order shall be entered unless the consent of each party Affected is signified, (a) Where the party appears by solicitor or counsel, by the signature Of the solicitor or counsel, (b) Where the party does not appear or appears in person, (i) By the oral consent of the party before the court or the Registrar, or (ii) By the written consent of the party.
Order by consent (16) Where
(a) No person involved is under a legal disability, or (b) The public trustee has consented under section 31 (6) of the Infants act , and no person other than the infant is under a legal disability, An application for any order by consent may be made by filing a Praecipe and a draft of the order in form 56, and on being Satisfied that the application is appropriate, the registrar may (c) Enter the order, or (d) Refer the application to a judge or master who may (i) Make the order, or (ii) Direct that the application be spoken to.
Requirements of order requiring person to do an act (17) Every order requiring a person to do an act shall (a) Be served on that person or delivered to the person's solicitor of Record, and (b) State the time, or the time after service or delivery of the Order, within which the act is to be done.
Settlement of orders (18) An order shall be settled, when necessary, by the registrar, who May refer the draft to the judge or master who made the order.
Appointment to settle (19) A party may obtain an appointment to settle an order in form 44 And shall deliver the appointment and a draft order to all parties Whose approval is required under subrule (8) at least one day Before the time fixed thereby.
Party failing to appear on appointment to settle (20) If a party fails to appear at the time appointed for settlement of An order, the registrar may settle the order in the party's Absence.
Review of settlement (21) The court may review and vary the order as settled.
Registrar may draw order (22) The court may direct the registrar to draw up and enter an order.
Special directions for carriage, entry or service (23) The court may give special directions respecting the carriage, Entry or service of an order.
Correction of orders (24) The court may at any time correct a clerical mistake in an order Or an error arising in an order from an accidental slip or Omission, or may amend an order to provide for any matter which Should have been but was not adjudicated upon.
Order book to be kept by registry (25) The original copy of all orders required to be drawn up shall be Inserted by the registry in a book kept for that purpose, except Where a photographic film of the order is taken and maintained.
Rule 42 — enforcement of orders Order to pay money to a person (1) An order for the payment of money to a person may be enforced by Writ of seizure and sale in form 45.
Order to pay money into court (2) An order for the payment of money into court may be enforced by Writ of sequestration in form 46.
Order for recovery or delivery of land (3) An order for the recovery or the delivery of the possession of Land may be enforced by writ of possession in form 47.
Order for recovery or delivery of property other than land (4) An order for the recovery or the delivery of the possession of any Property other than land or money may be enforced by writ of Delivery in form 48 or form 49 or writ of sequestration in form 46.
Appointment of receiver (5) An order may be enforced by the appointment of a receiver under Rule 47
Execution by or against person not a party (6) A person not a party to a proceeding, who obtains an order or in Whose favour an order is made, may enforce the order by the same Process as if the person were a party to the proceeding, and a Person not a party to a proceeding, against whom an order may be Enforced, is liable to the same process for enforcing the order as If the person were a party to the proceeding.
Remedy on non-compliance with mandatory order (7) If a mandatory order or an order for the specific performance of a Contract is not obeyed, the court, besides or instead of Proceeding against the disobedient person for contempt, may direct That the act required to be done may be done so far as is Practical by the person who obtained the order, or some other Person appointed by the court, at the cost of the disobedient Person; and upon the act being done, the expenses incurred may be Ascertained in the manner as the court may direct, and execution May issue for the amount so ascertained and costs.
Issue of execution on conditional order (8) Where an order is to the effect that a person is entitled to Relief subject to or on compliance with a condition or the Happening of a contingency, the person so entitled, on compliance With the condition or the happening of the contingency, and on Demand made on the person against whom he is entitled to relief, May apply to the court for leave to issue execution. the court, if Satisfied that the right to relief has arisen, may order that Execution issue or may direct that any issue or question necessary For the determination of the rights of the persons be tried.
Issue of execution on change of parties (9) Where a change has taken place, by death or otherwise, in the Persons entitled or liable to execution, the person alleging to be Entitled to execution may apply to the court for leave to issue Execution, and the court may order (a) That execution may issue, or (b) That any issue or question necessary to determine the rights of The person be tried.
Production of order before execution (10) No writ of execution shall issue without the production to the Registry of a copy of the order upon which the writ is to issue.
Endorsement of writ (11) A writ of execution shall be endorsed with the name and address of The solicitor or person causing it to be issued.
Issue of writ of sequestration, possession or delivery (12) A writ of sequestration, a writ of possession or a writ of Delivery shall be issued only upon filing proof satisfactory to The registrar that the order sought to be enforced (a) Has been served or delivered under rule 41 (17), and (b) Has not been complied with.
Issue of writ of execution where order to pay money within a Period
(13) Where the order sought to be enforced is for the payment of money Within a specified period, no writ of execution shall be issued Until the expiration of the period.
Issue of writ of execution (14) (a) subject to these rules or an order of the court, a writ of Execution may be issued by the registrar at any time during the Lifetime of the order sought to be enforced.
(b) A writ of execution shall be prepared by the person seeking to Enforce the order or the person's solicitor, shall be sealed by The registrar, and shall thereupon be deemed to be issued.
(c) The person seeking to enforce the order or the person's solicitor, On presenting a writ of execution for sealing, shall leave a copy Of the writ with the registry.
Term and renewal of writ of execution (15) (a) a writ of execution, if unexecuted, shall remain in force for One year only, unless renewed.
(b) At any time before the expiration of a writ of execution, or a Renewed writ of execution, the writ may be renewed for one year From the date of renewal on the application of the party issuing The writ.
(c) An application to renew a writ of execution may be heard by the Court, a master or a registrar designated by the chief justice.
(d) A renewed writ of execution shall be endorsed by the master or the Registrar with the date of the order granting renewal and the date Of the renewal.
Enforcement costs (16) (a) unless the court otherwise orders, a party who is entitled to Enforce an order is entitled to the costs, fees and expenses of Enforcement including proceedings under the Court order enforcement act And rules 42 and 42a.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c), where these rules or some other Enactment provide that enforcement costs may be included in the Amount endorsed on any process of enforcement, the registrar may Fix the amount to be endorsed on the process.
(c) Where a judgment debtor alleges that he has satisfied an order for The payment of money or otherwise, whether or not the costs of Enforcement and interest on those costs have been paid, (i) Either the judgment creditor or debtor may apply to have the costs Of enforcement assessed before the registrar, and rule 57 applies, Or
(ii) The judgment debtor may apply to the registrar for an accounting.
(d) On an accounting referred to in paragraph (c) (ii), rule 32 Applies and the registrar may certify (i) The amount, if any, then due to the judgment creditor, (ii) The amount, if any, then due to the judgment debtor as a result of An overpayment, and (iii) That the judgment has been paid.
(e) A certificate under paragraph (d) (iii) has the same effect as Though it were an order under subrule (20).
Separate writs for costs (17) Upon an order granting relief and costs there may be, at the Election of the person entitled, either one writ or separate writs Of execution for the relief granted and for the recovery of the Costs.
Judgment for recovery of property other than land (18) Where it is sought to enforce an order for the recovery of Property other than land or money by writ of delivery, upon the Application of the judgment holder, the court may order that Execution issue for the delivery of the property without giving The other party the option of retaining the property upon paying The assessed value, and that if the property cannot be found, and Unless the court otherwise orders, the sheriff shall take Possession of all the other party's lands, goods and chattels Until the other party delivers the property or, at the option of The judgment holder, until the sheriff realizes from the other Party's goods and chattels the assessed value of the property.
Acknowledgment of payment (19) A debtor may require, as a condition of paying a money judgment, That the judgment creditor forthwith execute, file and deliver an Acknowledgment of payment, in form 50.
Order that judgment has been paid (20) Where a judgment debtor claims to have paid the judgment but has Not obtained an acknowledgment of payment from the judgment Creditor, the debtor may apply to the court for an order Certifying that the judgment has been paid.
Stay of execution (21) (a) The court may, at or after the time of making an order, (i) Stay the execution of the order until such time as it thinks fit, Or
(ii) Provide that an order for the payment of money be payable by Instalments.
(b) Unless the court in an order under paragraph (a) (ii) otherwise Provides, where an instalment is not paid by the time fixed for Payment, the balance of the money remaining unpaid under the order Is, at that time, due and payable without notice being given to The judgment debtor.
(c) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a), a party against Whom an order has been made may apply to the court for a stay of Execution or other relief on grounds with respect to which the Supporting facts arose too late for them to be pleaded, and the Court may give relief it considers just.
Application for directions (22) A sheriff, judgment creditor or judgment debtor may apply to the Court for directions under rule 43 concerning the sale of any Property taken in execution.
Subpoena to debtor (23) A creditor who has obtained an order of the court for the recovery Or payment of money, or costs, or both, may issue out of the Registry a subpoena in form 51 on filing an affidavit showing that The order is not satisfied and that no writ of execution issued by The creditor is outstanding against the debtor.
Idem
(24) The subpoena shall be directed to the debtor or to an officer or Director of a corporate debtor or to a person liable to execution On an order against a partnership or firm debtor.
Service of subpoena (25) The subpoena shall be served personally at least 7 days before the Date of the hearing, and with the subpoena shall be tendered the Expenses the person served would be entitled to were he or she Required to attend the court as a witness.
Examination of debtor (26) The hearing shall take place before an examiner and shall be on Oath as to the following matters:
(a) The income and property of the debtor; (b) The debts owed to and by the debtor; (c) The disposal the debtor has made of any property; (d) The means the debtor has, or has had, or in future may have, of Satisfying the order.
Examiner
(27) The examiner shall be (a) The court, (b) A master, or (c) A registrar designated as an examiner by the chief justice.
Examination
(28) The creditor and the person subpoenaed may, with leave of the Examiner, call witnesses who may be cross-examined.
Adjournment
(29) The examiner may adjourn the hearing from time to time.
Debtor refusing to attend, etc.
(30) If the person subpoenaed (a) Does not attend as required at the hearing or an adjournment of It,
(b) Refuses to be sworn, or to affirm or to answer any question put to The person, (c) After an order to that effect, refuses or neglects to produce or Permit to be inspected any document or property, or (d) Does not give answers which are to the satisfaction of the Examiner,
Then
(e) If the examiner is a master or registrar, (i) In the case of default under paragraph (a) he or she shall make a Report in form 88 and fix a time and place at which the creditor May appear before the court, and at that time and place the court May, at the request of the creditor and without notice to the Person subpoenaed, order committal, or apprehension under rule 56 (5), and (ii) In the case of default under paragraph (b), (c) or (d) he or she Shall make a report in form 88 and fix a time and place for the Person subpoenaed to appear before the court, and at that time and Place the court may, at the request of the creditor and without Further notice to the person subpoenaed, order committal, or Apprehension under rule 56 (5), or (f) If the examiner is the court, the examiner may order committal.
Creditor failing to attend, etc.
(31) If the creditor who issued a subpoena fails to appear at the Hearing, or if the examiner is of the opinion that the proceedings Are unnecessary or vexatious, the examiner may order the creditor To pay to the person subpoenaed a sum of money by way of Compensation and may order that sum to be paid forthwith or to be Set off against the debt.
Debtor unreasonably refusing to pay (32) If it appears to the examiner that the debtor, (a) With intent to defraud the creditor, has made or caused to be made Any gift or delivery or transfer of property, or has removed or Concealed property, (b) Has unreasonably neglected or refused to pay the debt in whole or In part or to pay any instalment ordered to be paid, or (c) Is a corporation and that the person subpoenaed has done, Authorized, permitted or acquiesced in an act or omission Described in paragraph (a) or (b), Then
(d) If the examiner is a master or registrar, he or she may make a Report of his or her findings and fix a time and place for the Person subpoenaed to appear before the court, and at that time and Place the creditor may apply without notice for committal, or (e) If the examiner is the court, the examiner may order committal.
Order for payment (33) The examiner may make one or more of the following orders:
(a) For the payment of the debt by instalments; (b) For the payment of the debt on or before a fixed date; (c) Varying or rescinding any previous order; (d) For payment to be made to the registrar, or to the creditor or to The creditor's solicitor; (e) Fixing the costs payable by the debtor without assessment, And if the examiner is the master or registrar, the order shall Have the effect of an order made by the court and shall be entered Accordingly.
Notice of application for committal (34) If a debtor fails to pay in accordance with an order made by an Examiner, the creditor may issue out of the registry a notice of Motion for committal in form 52, on filing an affidavit showing That the default has occurred, and subrules (24) and (25) apply.
Order for committal (35) (a) The court may order committal if satisfied that (i) The order to pay has not been obeyed, (ii) The person knew of the order, and (iii) The person has not shown good cause why an order of committal Should not be made against him or her.
(b) The court may fix the costs payable by the debtor without Assessment.
Form of order (36) An order of committal shall be in form 53 and shall commit the Person named to prison for a term not exceeding 40 days.
Term of order (37) No order of committal shall be enforced after the expiration of One year after the date the order was made.
Payment to sheriff (38) A creditor seeking to enforce an order of committal shall pay to The sheriff for the maintenance of the person committed the sum of $10 per day by weekly payments of $70 in advance. the maintenance Money paid by the creditor shall be recoverable by the creditor From the debtor as costs of execution, without order.
Debtor to be brought before court (39) Subject to subrule (41), a sheriff or peace officer executing an Order of committal shall bring the person arrested forthwith Before the court, and the person arrested may be examined by the Court, and if the court considers that imprisonment is not Appropriate, it may stay execution of the order and shall fix a Time and place for a hearing to determine whether or not the order Of committal should be set aside or varied, and shall give Directions for notice of the hearing to be given to the creditor.
Application to set aside or vary order (40) A person who is the subject of an order of committal may apply to The court to set aside or vary the order, and the court may direct A stay of execution of the order pending the hearing of the Application and give directions for service of notice of the Hearing.
Payment of debt (41) (a) a person who is the subject of an order of committal may pay The amount payable endorsed on the order either to the registrar Or to the sheriff or peace officer or warden in whose custody he Or she is.
(b) Upon payment to the registrar of the amount payable, the registrar Shall issue a receipt to that effect.
(c) Upon payment to any of them of the amount payable or upon being Shown a registrar's receipt to that effect, a sheriff or peace Officer or warden shall release the person committed from custody And shall endorse the order accordingly and return it to the Registry.
(d) All money received under this rule shall forthwith be paid to the Creditor.
Praecipe for discharge (42) A creditor who has obtained an order of committal may file in the Registry a praecipe requesting discharge of the person committed, And the registrar shall endorse the praecipe and a copy with the Words "this is your authority to discharge ____________________________________ (name) from custody" above The registrar's signature, and, on being shown the copy of the Praecipe, a sheriff or peace officer or warden shall release the Person committed from custody and shall endorse the order Accordingly and return it to the registry.
Failure to pay sheriff (43) A sheriff who has not received maintenance money as provided in Subrule (38) shall release the person committed, if in the Sheriffs' custody, or shall notify the warden, if in the warden's Custody, who shall release the person committed, and each shall Endorse the order accordingly and return it to the registry.
Liability imposed by order (44) So imprisonment under these rules extinguishes the liability Imposed by an order.
Enforcement of alimony or maintenance order (45) Where the court has made an order for the payment of alimony or Maintenance by periodic payments and arrears have occurred, a writ Of execution for the total of the arrears may be issued against The person liable to make payment upon proof by affidavit of the Fact and amount of the arrears.
Enforcement of certificate (46) Where a certificate under rule 32 (2) or 57 (32) has been filed, It may be enforced as if it were an order of the court.
Rule 42a — examination in aid of execution Examination of debtor (1) Where a judgment creditor is entitled to issue execution upon or Otherwise enforce an order of the court, the creditor may examine The judgment debtor for discovery as to (a) Any matter pertinent to the enforcement of the order, (b) The reason for nonpayment or nonperformance of the order, (c) The income and property of the debtor, (d) The debts owed to and by the debtor, (e) The disposal the debtor has made of any property either before or After the making of the order, (f) The means the debtor has, or has had, or in future may have, of Satisfying the order, and (g) Whether the debtor intends to obey the order or has any reason for Not doing so.
Examination of corporate, partnership or firm debtor (2) An officer or director of a corporate judgment debtor, or a person Liable to execution upon the order in the case of a partnership or Firm judgment debtor, may, without an order, be examined for Discovery upon the matters set out in subrule (1).
Limitation
(3) Unless the court otherwise orders, a person examined under subrule (1) or (2) shall not be further examined in the same proceeding For a year.
Examination of person other than debtor (4) Upon being satisfied that any other person may have knowledge of The matters set out in subrule (1) the court may order the person To be examined for discovery concerning the person's knowledge.
Order in certain cases (5) Where a difficulty arises in or about the execution or enforcement Of an order the court may make any order for the attendance and Examination of a party or person it thinks just.
Application of examination for discovery rules (6) The provisions of rule 27 (2), (61, (141, (151, (16), (20),(211, (221, (23), (24), (25) and (26) apply to an examination under this Rule.
Use of examination (7) Any part of an examination for discovery under this rule may be Given in evidence in the same or any subsequent proceeding between The parties to the proceeding or between the judgment creditor and The person examined for discovery.
Costs
(8) Unless the court otherwise orders, the party conducting an Examination under this rule is entitled to recover the costs of The examination from the debtor.
Interpretation
(9) In this rule a "judgment creditor" means a person entitled to Enforce an order of the court, whether for payment of money or Otherwise, and "judgment debtor" or "debtor" means a person Against whom the order may be enforced.
Rule 43 — sales by the court Court may order sale (1) Where in a proceeding it appears necessary or expedient that Property be sold, the court may order the sale and may order a Person in possession of the property or in receipt of the rents, Profits or income from it to join in the sale and transfer of the Property and deliver up the possession or receipt to the purchaser Or person designated by the court.
Sale in debenture holder's proceeding (2) In a debenture holder's proceeding where the debenture holder is Entitled to a charge on any property, the court, if it is of the Opinion that eventually there must be a sale of the property, may Order the sale before or after judgment, whether or not all Interested persons are ascertained or served.
Conduct of sale (3) Where an order is made directing property to be sold, the court May permit any person having the conduct of the sale to sell the Property in the manner as the person thinks just or as the court Directs.
Directions for sale (4) The court may give directions it thinks just for the purpose of Effecting a sale, including directions (a) Appointing the person who is to have conduct of the sale, (b) Fixing the manner of sale, whether by contract conditional on the Approval of the court, private negotiation, public auction, Sheriff's sale, tender or some other manner, (c) Fixing a reserve or minimum price, (d) Defining the rights of a person to bid, make offers or meet bids, (e) Requiring payment of the purchase price into court or to trustees Or to other persons, (f) Settling the particulars or conditions of sale, (g) Obtaining evidence of the value of the property, (h) Fixing the remuneration to be paid to the person having conduct of The sale and any commission, costs or the expenses resulting from The sale, (i) That any conveyance or other document necessary to complete the Sale be executed on behalf of any person by a person designated by The court, and (j) Authorizing a person to enter upon any land or building.
Application for directions (5) A person having conduct of a sale may apply to the court for Further directions.
Certificate of sale (6) The result of a sale by order of the court shall be certified by The person having the conduct of the sale in form 54, verified by Affidavit, and filed forthwith after completion of the sale.
Vesting order (7) The person having conduct of the sale may apply to the court for a Vesting order in favour of a purchaser.
Rule 44 — interlocutory applications When interlocutory application to be brought (1) Where an application in a proceeding is authorized to be made to The court, it shall be made by interlocutory application.
More than one matter may be included in an application (2) A party may include in an application more than one matter upon Which the party desires the order of the court.
Form of application (3) An interlocutory application shall be brought by filing a notice Of motion in form 55, which shall specify any rule or other Enactment relied upon.
Application to be supported by affidavit (4) An application shall be supported by affidavit as to all the facts On which it is based that do not appear from the record, but an Affidavit previously made and read in the same proceeding also may Be used.
Application to list affidavits (5) A notice of motion shall contain a statement of the affidavits to Be used in support, and the affidavits not already served shall be Filed and delivered with the notice.
Time notice of motion returnable (6) Unless the court otherwise directs, a notice of motion is Returnable at 10 a.m. before the court in chambers on any day Fixed for that purpose.
Delivery of notice of motion (7) A copy of the notice of motion shall be delivered to all parties Of record whose interests may be affected by the order sought.
Ex parte order (8) If satisfied that no notice is necessary or in case of urgency, The court may make an order ex parte and, on the application of a Person affected by the order, may set it aside or vary it as it Thinks just.
Delivery of ex parte orders (9) A party obtaining an ex parte order shall deliver the order Together with the affidavits upon which it was granted to all Parties of record and serve them on any other persons as the court May direct.
Length of notice (10) Unless otherwise ordered, there shall be at least 2 days between The service or delivery of a notice of motion and the day named in The notice for the hearing.
Delivery of notice with writ, etc.
(11) A party may serve a notice of motion with the originating process Or at any time afterwards but, unless the court otherwise orders, The day named in the notice for hearing the application shall not Be earlier than the last day fixed for entry of appearance.
Party may file affidavits (12) A party of record who may be affected by an order sought in an Application may file affidavits and shall forthwith deliver copies Of them to all other parties of record.
Interlocutory application by consent (13) An interlocutory application by consent, or of which notice is not Required, may be made by filing (a) A praecipe specifying the rule or other enactment relied on, (b) A draft of the order requested, and (c) Evidence that the application is consented to or material on which It is based, And, on being satisfied that the application is appropriate for Proceeding under this rule, the court may make the order without The application being spoken to.
Place of hearing of motion (14) Subject to the agreement of all parties of record and to subrule (16), all motions shall be heard at a place at which the court Normally sits in the judicial district in which the proceeding was Commenced, and the applicant shall state the name of that place on The notice of motion.
Where more than one place (15) Where there is more than one place within the judicial district Referred to in subrule (14) at which the court normally sits, the Applicant may name, as the place for hearing, any of those places, But where the applicant names a place other than the place at Which the proceeding was commenced, the court may, where the court Considers that it was unreasonable to have made the motion Returnable at that other place, (a) Order that the application be heard at some other place, (b) Dismiss the application, or (c) Hear the application And may, in any event, make a special order as to costs.
Place of hearing of motion by leave of registrar (16) Where any registrar is satisfied that, due to urgency or the Convenience of the parties, an application should be heard at a Place outside of the judicial district in which the proceeding was Commenced, the registrar may, ex parte, grant leave for the Applicant to do either or both of the following:
(a) File the notice of motion in some other judicial district; (b) Name as the place of hearing a place in that other judicial District;
And where the registrar grants leave, he or she shall endorse the Notice of motion accordingly.
Idem
(17) Where, in respect of an application for which leave was granted Under subrule (16) (b), the court at the hearing of the Application considers that the application should not be heard at That place, the court may (a) Order that the application be heard at some other place, (b) Dismiss the application, or (c) Hear the application And may, in any event, make a special order as to costs.
Transfer of file (18) Where a procedure authorized by subrule (15) or (16) is followed, And where practical, the original registry shall transfer the file To the registry where the hearing is to take place, and after the Hearing the file shall be returned to the original registry.
Idem
(19) Where the transfer is not practical, the registry at the place Where the hearing takes place, after the hearing, shall forward All material filed in that registry and any order made to the Original registry.
Rule 45 — injunctions Applications for injunctions (1) An application for an interlocutory injunction may be made by a Party whether or not a claim for an injunction was included in the Relief claimed. the application shall be made upon notice to all Other parties.
Ex parte applications for injunctions (2) Notwithstanding subrule (1), in case of urgency an application for An injunction may be made ex parte and the court may grant an Interim injunction.
Application for before proceeding commenced (3) In case of urgency and with leave of the court, application for an Injunction may be made before commencement of a proceeding and the Injunction may be granted on terms providing for the commencement Of proceedings.
Injunction by court order (4) No writ of injunction shall be issued. an injunction shall be by Order of the court.
Court may vary injunction (5) Upon application, which may be made ex parte in case of urgency, The court may rescind, suspend or vary an order for an injunction.
Undertaking as to damages (6) Unless the court otherwise orders, an order for an interlocutory Or interim injunction shall contain the applicant's undertaking to Abide by any order which the court may make as to damages.
Application for injunction after judgment (7) In a proceeding in which an injunction has been or might have been Claimed, a party may apply by petition after judgment to restrain Another party from the repetition or continuance of the wrongful Act or breach of contract established by the judgment or from the Commission of any act or breach of a like kind.
Rule 46 — detention, preservation and recovery of property Property which is the subject matter of a proceeding (1) The court may make an order for the detention, custody or Preservation of any property that is the subject matter of a Proceeding or as to which a question may arise and, for the Purpose of enabling an order under this rule to be carried out, The court may authorize a person to enter upon any land or Building.
Fund which is the subject matter of a proceeding (2) Where the right of a party to a specific fund is in dispute in a Proceeding, the court may order the fund to be paid into court or Otherwise secured.
Allowance of income from property (3) Where property is the subject matter of a proceeding and the court Is satisfied that it will be more than sufficient to answer all Claims on it, the court at any time may allow the whole or part of The income of the property to be paid, during such period as it May direct, to a party who has an interest in it or may direct That part of the personal property be delivered or transferred to A party.
Recovery of specific property (4) Where a party claims the recovery of specific property other than Land, the court may order that the property claimed be given up to The claimant, pending the outcome of the proceeding, either Unconditionally or upon terms relating to giving security, time, Mode of trial or otherwise as it thinks just.
Compensation for wrongful recovery (5) Unless the court otherwise orders, if an order is made under Subrule (4) the order shall contain the claimant's undertaking to Abide by any order which the court may make as to damages arising Out of delivery of the property to the claimant or compliance with Any other order.
Rule 47 — receivers Appointment of (1) The court may appoint a receiver in any proceeding either Unconditionally or on terms, whether or not the appointment of a Receiver was included in the relief claimed by the applicant.
Form of security (2) Unless the court otherwise orders, a receiver shall give security As the court may direct in either form 57 or form 58, and until That security is given, the order appointing the receiver shall Not be presented for entry.
Remuneration of (3) The court shall fix any remuneration to be paid to a receiver.
Accounts of (4) Unless the court otherwise orders, a receiver shall file and Deliver his accounts annually.
Rule 48 — interpleader Entitlement to relief by way of interpleader (1) Where a person (in this rule called the "applicant") is sued or Expects to be sued in respect of property in the person's Possession or under the person's control or in respect of the Proceeds from a disposition of the property, or receives a claim In respect of the property or proceeds by or from 2 or more Persons (in this rule called the "claimants") making adverse Claims and the applicant claims no beneficial interest in the Property, the applicant may apply to the court for relief by way Of interpleader.
Claim to real or personal property taken by sheriff (2) A person who makes a claim to or in respect of property taken or Intended to be taken by a sheriff in the execution of any process, Or to the proceeds from a disposition of the property, shall Deliver to the sheriff written notice of the person's claim and The person's address for delivery.
Sheriff to deliver notice (3) On receipt of a notice of claim, a sheriff shall forthwith deliver A copy to the person who caused the process to issue, and that Person shall, within 7 days after receiving the copy, deliver to The sheriff a written notice stating whether that person admits or Disputes the claim.
Where claim admitted (4) On receipt of a notice admitting a claim, a sheriff shall release Any property the claim to which is admitted, and the court may Restrain the bringing of a proceeding against the sheriff for or In respect of his having taken possession of the property and, Unless the court otherwise orders, a person who admits a claim is Only liable to the sheriff for any costs, fees and expenses Incurred by the sheriff before receipt of the notice admitting the Claim.
Sheriff may apply for interpleader relief (5) On receipt of a notice disputing a claim or on the failure of the Person who caused the process to issue to give the sheriff the Notice within the time required by paragraph (b), the sheriff may Apply for interpleader relief.
Mode of application (6) An application for interpleader relief shall be made by petition, Unless it is made in a proceeding already commenced, in which case It may be made by notice of motion.
Affidavit
(7) An application for interpleader relief shall be supported by an Affidavit stating the names and addresses of the claimants of whom The applicant has knowledge and that the applicant (a) Claims no beneficial interest in the property in dispute, other Than for costs, fees or expenses, (b) Does not collude with any claimant of the property, and (c) Is willing to deliver the property to the court or to dispose of It as the court may direct.
Ex parte application (8) An application for interpleader relief may be made ex parte, and The court may deal with the matter summarily or may give Directions for service.
Powers of court on hearing application (9) On the hearing of an application for interpleader relief the court May
(a) Order a claimant to be made a party in a proceeding already Commenced in substitution for or in addition to the applicant, (b) Order an issue between the claimants to be stated and tried and May direct which claimant is to be plaintiff and which defendant, (c) On the request of the applicant or a claimant, determine the Rights of the claimants summarily, (d) Where a claimant fails to appear, or appears and fails or refuses To comply with an order made in the proceeding, make an order Declaring the claimant and all persons claiming under the claimant Be forever barred from prosecuting the claim against the applicant And all persons claiming under the claimant, without affecting the Rights of the claimants as between themselves, (e) Stay any further step in a proceeding, (f) Where there are interpleader applications pending in several Proceedings, make an order that shall be binding on all the Parties to the various proceedings, (g) Order the costs of the applicant to be paid out of the property or Proceeds,
(h) Declare that the liability of the applicant with respect to the Property or the proceeds is extinguished, and (i) Make any other order it thinks just.
Rule 49 — appeals Application
(1) Where by an enactment, an appeal or an application in the nature Of an appeal from the decision, direction or order of any person Or body is authorized to be made to the court or to a judge, the Appeal shall be governed by this rule to the extent that it is not Inconsistent with any procedure provided for in the enactment.
Form
(2) An appeal shall be commenced by filing in a registry a notice of Appeal in form 59.
Application for directions (3) A notice of appeal must (a) Include an application for directions as to the conduct of the Appeal, and (b) Specify the date on which the application will be made, which Shall be not less than 7 days after service of the notice, unless The court otherwise directs.
Service of notice of appeal (4) A notice of appeal shall be served upon the person or body which Gave the decision or direction or made the order and on all other Persons who may be affected by the order sought, unless the court Otherwise directs.
Powers of court (5) The court may give directions it considers necessary for the Proper hearing and determination of the appeal and, without Limiting the generality of that, may make an order (a) That documents or transcripts or minutes be produced, (b) That evidence be adduced by way of affidavit, or that it be given Orally,
(c) That the appeal be determined by way of stated case, or argument Upon a point of law, (d) Prescribing time limits for taking steps in and for the hearing of The appeal, or (e) That the appeal be disposed of summarily, And may exercise the powers of the court as on an originating Application.
Rule 50 — foreclosure and cancellation Commencement
(1) A proceeding for foreclosure of the equitable right to redeem Mortgaged property or for redemption shall be commenced by Petition.
Service
(2) All persons whose interest in or claim to the mortgaged property Is sought to be extinguished and all persons against whom any Relief is sought shall be made respondents, and unless the court Otherwise orders, it is not necessary to join any other person as A respondent.
Joinder of claim or party (3) Notwithstanding rule 8 (1) a petitioner under this rule may join In the proceeding any claim arising out of the mortgage or out of Any bond or collateral security or obligation given for the Mortgage debt and may join as a party any person who is liable to Pay the mortgage debt.
Person filing interest after lis pendens (4) A person who registers or files in a land title office an Interest, right or claim in or to the mortgaged property after the Petitioner has registered a lis pendens in respect of the Proceeding against the mortgaged property, need not be served with The petition and is bound by an order made in the proceeding, but The person may enter an appearance in the proceeding.
Powers of the court (5) The court may (a) Make a final order of foreclosure or order that a respondent Shall, within a redemption period that the court may fix, or Forthwith, pay to the petitioner what is due under the mortgage And for costs, and that, in default of payment, the respondent Shall be foreclosed of his equity of redemption, (b) Determine summarily or order that an account be taken of and that The registrar certify, what is due to the petitioner or to any Person on the date of hearing of the petition or the accounting And either (i) The daily amount of interest, or (ii) If the daily amount of interest may fluctuate, the method for Calculating such interest From the date of the hearing of the petition or the accounting to The expiration of the period of redemption, (c) Determine summarily or order an inquiry to determine any issues Raised between respondents, including priorities, (d) Determine summarily or order an inquiry to determine whether a Person should be served with the petition, (e) Order at what times, on what terms and in what order of priority Respondents may redeem the mortgaged property and that in default They shall be foreclosed of any interest, right or claim in or to The mortgaged property, (f) Grant judgment for any amount found due, or which may be certified To be due on an accounting, (g) Order a sale of the mortgaged property, (h) Grant further or corollary relief, and (i) Make an order under rule 52 (11).
Final order (6) In default of payment in accordance with an order made under Subrule (5), a final order of foreclosure may be granted against a Respondent on application by the petitioner.
Order for sale (7) A party of record may apply at any time for an order that the Mortgaged property be sold or be put up for sale.
Inquiry to settle terms of sale (8) The court may order an inquiry to settle the terms of a sale.
Order confirming sale (9) Notwithstanding that the time for redemption has not expired, the Person having conduct of a sale may apply to the court for an Order confirming the sale, directing the disposition of the Proceeds and vesting title in the purchaser.
Notice to assess costs (10) A respondent desiring to redeem may, upon paying to the petitioner The amount due under the mortgage, give notice to the petitioner To assess costs, and if, within 14 days of delivery of the notice, The petitioner has not filed a bill of costs for assessment, the Petitioner shall not be entitled to costs.
Agreement for sale (11) This rule applies to a proceeding by a vendor on an agreement for Sale of land in which a claim is made for specific performance of An agreement for sale and for its cancellation upon failure to Perform.
Rule 51 — affidavits Affidavit to be filed (1) An affidavit used in a proceeding must be filed.
Form and content of affidavit (2) An affidavit must (a) Be expressed in the first person and show the name, address and Occupation of the deponent, (b) If the deponent is a party or the solicitor, agent, director, Officer or employee of a party, state that fact, and (c) Be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively.
Signing and swearing affidavit (3) An affidavit shall be signed by the deponent and its jurat signed By the person before whom it is sworn. a deponent unable to sign An affidavit may place his or her mark on it.
Jurat where deponent unable to read (4) Where it appears to a person before whom an affidavit is sworn That a deponent is unable to read it, he or she shall certify in The jurat that the affidavit was read in his or her presence to The deponent who seemed to understand it.
Interpretation to deponent who does not understand english (5) Where it appears to a person before whom an affidavit is to be Sworn that the deponent does not understand the english language, The affidavit shall be interpreted to the deponent by a competent Interpreter who shall certify by endorsement in form 60 on the Affidavit that he or she has interpreted the affidavit to the Deponent.
Exhibit to be marked (6) An exhibit referred to in an affidavit must be identified by the Person before whom it is sworn by signing a certificate placed on The exhibit in the following form:
"this is exhibit ...........................................................
Referred to in the affidavit of ..............................................................................
Sworn before me (date)." Copies of documentary exhibits (7) An exhibit referred to in an affidavit need not be filed, but must Be made available for the use of the court and for the prior Inspection of a party to the proceeding and, in the case of a Documentary exhibit not exceeding 5 pages, a copy shall be Attached to the affidavit and to all copies served or delivered.
Alterations to be initialled (8) The person before whom an affidavit is sworn shall initial all Alterations in the affidavit, and unless so initialled, the Affidavit shall not be used in a proceeding without leave of the Court.
Contents of affidavit (9) An affidavit may state only what a deponent would be permitted to State in evidence at a trial, except that where the source of the Information is given, an affidavit may contain statements as to The deponent's information and belief, where it is made (a) In respect of an application for an interlocutory order, or (b) By leave of the court under rule 40 (52) (a) or 52 (8) (e).
Use of defective affidavit (10) With leave of the court an affidavit may be used in evidence, Notwithstanding an irregularity in form.
Affidavit sworn before proceeding commenced (11) An affidavit may be used in a proceeding notwithstanding that it Was sworn before the proceeding was commenced.
Rule 52 — chambers Applications to be heard in chambers (1) All originating applications and, unless made in the course of Trial, all interlocutory applications, shall be heard and disposed Of by the court in chambers.
Particular applications to be heard in chambers (2) Without limiting the generality of subrule (1), the following Matters shall be heard and disposed of by the court in chambers:
(a) Appeals from and applications to confirm, vary or set aside Orders, reports, certificates or recommendations of a master, Registrar, special referee or other officer of the court; (b) Actions or issues in actions that have been ordered to be Proceeded with by affidavit or on documents before the court, and Special cases and hearings on a point of law; (c) Applications for judgment under rules 17,18,18a, 25 and 31; (d) Applications to vary or set aside a judgment; (e) Matters which, being otherwise proceeded with by action, are Ordered to be disposed of in chambers.
Definition of "application" (3) In this rule, "application" includes all proceedings that may be Heard and disposed of in chambers.
Failure of party to appear (4) When a party to an application fails to attend, whether on the Return of the application or at the time appointed for the Consideration of the matter, the court may proceed ex parte, if, Considering the nature of the case, it thinks it expedient so to Do, and may require evidence of service it thinks necessary.
Reconsideration of ex parte proceeding (5) Where the court has proceeded ex parte under subrule (4), the Proceeding shall not be reconsidered unless the court is satisfied That the party failing to attend was not guilty of wilful delay or Default.
Adjourned hearing of application (6) If an application is not disposed of on the return date, the Parties shall attend from time to time without further notice at Such time as may be appointed.
Chambers list (7) Each application to be spoken to, when set down for hearing, shall Be entered in the registry in a list and, so far as is practical, The solicitor setting down the application shall indicate whether It is of a time consuming or contentious nature.
Evidence on an application (8) On an application, evidence shall be given by affidavit, but the Court may (a) Order the attendance for cross-examination of a deponent, either Before the court or before another person as the court directs, (b) Order the examination of a party or witness, either before the Court or before another person as the court directs, (c) Give directions required for the discovery, inspection or Production of a document or copy thereof, (d) Order an inquiry, assessment or accounting under rule 32, and (e) Permit other forms of evidence to be adduced.
Hearing of application in public (9) Except in cases of urgency, an application shall be heard in a Place open to the public when the application is made, unless the Court, in the case of a particular application, directs that for Special reasons the application ought to be dealt with in private.
Adjournment of application returnable on a holiday (10) Where an application has been made returnable on a day on which The court does not hold chambers, the application will stand Adjourned without order to the next day on which the court holds Chambers.
Power of the court (11) On an application the court may (a) Grant or refuse the relief claimed in whole or in part, or dispose Of any question arising on the application, (b) Adjourn the application from time to time, either to a particular Date or generally, and when the application is adjourned Generally, a party may set it down on 2 days' notice for further Hearing,
(c) Obtain the assistance of an expert and act upon the certificate or Report of that expert and determine the expert's remuneration and Direct payment of it by a party, and (d) Order a trial of the proceeding, either generally or on an issue, And order pleadings to be filed, and may give directions for the Conduct of the trial and of pre-trial proceedings, and for the Disposition of the application.
Power of court where notice not given (12) If on the hearing of an application the court is of the opinion That a person to whom notice has not been given ought to have had Notice, the court may either dismiss the application or adjourn The hearing.
Adjournment
(13) The hearing of an application may from time to time be adjourned By the registrar.
Notes of proceedings (14) The registrar or the registrar's clerk shall attend at and keep Notes of all proceedings in chambers with a short statement of the Questions or points decided or orders made at every hearing.
Rule 53 — masters, registrars and special referees Powers of a master (1) A master hearing an application has the powers of the court set Out in rule 52 (4) to (12).
Master as registrar (2) A master has the powers and jurisdiction of a registrar under These rules.
Powers of a master in estates (3) A master has the powers of the court to dispose of all Non-contentious business in the administration of estates.
Powers of registrar (4) A registrar dealing with a matter has the power to extend, shorten Or limit the time for any proceeding before the registrar and has The powers set out in rule 32 (5).
Reference by master to court (5) If a matter appears to the master proper for the decision of the Court, the master may refer it to the court, and the court may Either dispose of the matter or refer it back to the master with Directions.
Appeal from master, registrar or special referee (6) A person affected by an order or decision of a master, registrar Or special referee may appeal the order or the decision to the Court.
Idem
(7) The appeal may be by way of summary reference from the master, Registrar or special referee at the request of a party or by Filing a notice of appeal in form 61 within 14 days after the Order or decision complained of.
Notice
(8) Unless otherwise ordered, there shall be at least 2 days between The service of the notice and the hearing.
Appeal not to act as stay (9) An appeal from the decision of a master or registrar is not a stay Of proceeding unless so ordered by the court or the master.
Rule 54 — foreign judgments Definition of "convention" (1) In this rule "convention" means the convention for the reciprocal Recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial Matters, the english language version of which is set out in Schedule 4 of the Court order enforcement act .
Application under Court order enforcement act (2) An application to have a foreign judgment registered under part 2 Of the Court order enforcement act Or under the convention, shall be made by originating application.
Affidavit in support (3) The application for registration shall be supported by an Affidavit
(a) Exhibiting a certified copy of the judgment under the seal of the Court where the judgment was obtained, (b) Exhibiting a certified translation of the judgment, if given in a Language other than english, and (c) Stating, to the best of the information and belief of the Deponent,
(i) That the judgment creditor is entitled to enforce the judgment, (ii) That the judgment is not one which may not be registered under Either section 31 (6) of the Court order enforcement act Or article 11, paragraph 2 of the convention, (iii) That the judgment debtor was duly served with the process of the Original court, unless this appears from the judgment, (iv) That the original court had jurisdiction to grant the judgment, (v) The full name, trade or business, and usual or last known place of Abode or of business of the judgment creditor and judgment debtor Respectively, so far as is known to the deponent, and (vi) The amount presently owing on the judgment.
Ex parte application (4) Notice need not be given to the judgment debtor of an application Under subrule (2).
Form of order to register (5) The order giving leave to register the judgment shall be in form 62.
Setting aside registration of judgment under convention (6) An order that a foreign judgment be registered under the Convention may be set aside where the court is satisfied that (a) The judgment debtor, being the defendant in the original Proceedings, either was not served with the process of the Original court or did not receive notice of those proceedings in Sufficient time to enable the judgment debtor to defend the Proceedings and, in either case, did not appear, (b) Another judgment has been given by a court having jurisdiction in The matter in dispute before the date of judgment in the original Court, or (c) The judgment is not final, or an appeal is pending, or the time For appeal has not expired.
Stay of proceeding on foreign judgment (7) A defendant in an action on a foreign judgment, on proof that an Appeal or other proceeding in the nature of an appeal is pending, Or the time for appeal has not expired, may apply for an order Staying the proceeding until the determination of the appeal or Other proceeding on terms that the court may impose.
Rule 55 — admiralty jurisdiction Actions to which rule applies (1) This rule applies where an action may be brought in rem against a Ship or other property.
Idem
(2) Except to the extent that jurisdiction has been otherwise Specially assigned, an action may be brought in rem against a ship Or other property that may be brought in rem in the federal court Of canada in all cases in which a claim for relief is made or a Remedy is sought under or by virtue of canadian maritime law or Any other law of canada relating to navigation and shipping.
Writ of summons — actions in rem (3) An action in rem shall be commenced by issuing a writ of summons In form 107.
Writ of summons — when commenced with action in personam (4) An action in rem may be commenced with an action in personam by The issuance of one writ of summons in form 108 and may be joined With another proceeding in accordance with rule 5.
Special service rules for writs issued under subrule (3) or (4) (5) In an action in rem the writ may be served in british columbia, (a) Upon a ship or other property on board a ship by affixing a copy Of the writ to a conspicuous part of the ship that is protected From the elements to the extent practical, and (b) Upon property that is not on board a ship by (i) Attaching a copy of the writ to a conspicuous part of the property Protected from the elements to the extent practical, or (ii) By personal service on the person having apparent custody of the Property.
Appearance may be filed in name of ship (6) In an action in rem an appearance may be filed in the name of the Property named.
Default judgment (7) No judgment may be taken in an action in rem in default of an Appearance being filed except by application to the court.
Statement of defence (8) A person who files a statement of defence to an action in rem Shall plead the nature of the interest that the person claims in The ship or other property.
Arrest — "affidavit to lead warrant" (9) A party may, at any time after an action in rem has been Commenced, apply for a warrant for the arrest of the property Named by filing with the registrar an "affidavit to lead warrant" In form 109.
Issue of warrant (10) The registrar may, after reading the affidavit, (a) Issue the warrant, or (b) Refer the matter to the court and the court may issue the warrant, Subject to any directions that the court may give.
Form of warrant (11) A warrant to arrest under this rule shall be in form 110.
Notice to consulate (12) If the action in rem is for wages or for possession of a ship Belonging to a port of a foreign state that has a consulate in British columbia, a notice of the action shall be given to the Consulate before an application is made for the arrest of the ship Under this rule.
Service of warrant (13) The warrant shall be served by a person authorized to serve a writ Of execution in the manner provided by subrule (5).
Proof of service (14) The person who serves a warrant shall file proof of service Forthwith after service is effected.
When arrest takes effect (15) The arrest of property that is authorized by the warrant to be Arrested takes effect at the time the warrant is served.
Property not to be moved (16) After arrest no person shall move the property that has been Arrested, unless the court permits it or all parties interested in The action consent.
Idem
(17) After property has been arrested, the court may make an order for Its safety and preservation on terms that the court considers just And in particular may, (a) Authorize the property to be moved, and (b) Order that perishable property be disposed of with the proceeds to Be paid as directed by the court.
Possession of property arrested (18) The court may, on application of any interested party, authorize a Person to take possession of, and assume responsibility for, Property that has been arrested under this rule, but the Possession and responsibility shall otherwise continue in the Person or persons in possession of the property immediately before The arrest.
Security
(19) The court shall not make an order under subrule (18) unless the Court is satisfied that the party making the application has paid Or given adequate security for all fees, charges and expenses that Will be incurred while the property is in the possession of the Person authorized under subrule (18).
Caveats
Filing of caveat (20) A person who wishes to prevent the release of any property that Has been arrested under this rule or who wishes to prevent the Payment out of court of proceeds of the disposition of property That has been arrested must file a caveat in form 111 in the Registry from which the warrant was issued.
Withdrawal of caveat (21) A person who has entered a caveat may withdraw it by filing a Notice to that effect in form 112.
Damages for wrongful filing of caveat (22) Any person who suffers damages or costs as a result of a caveat Being filed without sufficient justification may apply to the Court to have those damages and costs summarily determined.
Application for damages (23) An application under subrule (22) shall be served on the caveator.
Summary determination of damages (24) If the court finds that the caveator cannot show that there was Sufficient justification for entry of the caveat, the court shall Summarily determine the amount of damages and costs suffered by The applicant and make an order for payment accordingly.
Release of property Release of property arrested (25) The court may, upon application of any person having an interest In property arrested under this rule, order the release of the Property arrested upon bail being posted.
Bailbond or guarantee (26) Bail to answer judgment and obtain the release of property Arrested under this rule may be posted by making a payment into Court as bail in form 113 or by delivering to the registrar the Guarantee of a chartered bank of canada or the bond of any surety Company licensed to do business in british columbia in form 114 or In the manner as the parties may agree or the court may order.
Amount of bail (27) The amount of bail to be posted shall be the lesser of (a) An amount sufficient to answer judgment in the proceedings against The property arrested, or (b) The appraised value of the property.
Service of the application (28) Unless the court otherwise orders, notice of an application for The release of property arrested under this rule shall be served At least one day before the application is heard (a) On the party to the action at whose instance the arrest was made, And
(b) On any person having filed a caveat to prevent the property from Being released from arrest.
Idem
(29) Notice of an application shall include the amount of any bail to Be posted and the name of the bank or surety company to be posting The bail.
Release
(30) The registrar shall issue a release from arrest in form 115 when (a) The court orders the release of the property arrested under this Rule, or (b) Consent to the release of the property arrested under this rule is Given by the party at whose instance the property was arrested and By any and all persons who filed caveats to prevent the release of The property from arrest.
Idem
(31) On delivery of the release from arrest to the person in possession And on payment of all fees to and charges incurred in respect of The arrest and custody if any, of the property arrested, the Property is released from arrest.
Collisions at sea — the "preliminary act" Application of subrules (33) to (37) (32) Unless the court otherwise orders, where there is an action Arising out of a collision of ships at sea, the following special Provisions in subrules (33) to (37) apply.
Pleadings and particulars (33) Where this rule applies, the statement of claim, statement of Defence, counterclaim and any other pleadings need not contain any Particulars concerning the collision other than those particulars That are necessary to identify the collision to an opposing party.
"the preliminary act" (34) The statement of claim, statement of defence and any counterclaim Shall be accompanied by a statement of particulars, to be known as A "preliminary act" which shall be sealed up and shall contain the Following particulars:
(a) The names of the ships which came into collision and the names of Their masters; (b) The time of the collision; (c) The place of the collision; (d) The direction and force of the wind; (e) The state of the weather; (f) The state and force of the tide or, if the collision occurred in Non- tidal waters, of the current; (g) The course being steered and the speed through the water of the Ship when the other ship was first seen or immediately before any Measures were taken with reference to her presence, whichever was The earlier, and all subsequent alterations to the course or speed Of the ship up to the time of the collision; (h) The lights, if any, carried by the ship; (i) The distance and bearing of the other ship if and when her echo Was first observed by radar; (j) The distance, bearing and approximate heading of the other ship When first seen; (k) The lights, if any, of the other ship which were first seen; (1) The lights, if any, of the other ship other than those first seen Which came into view before the collision; (m) The measures which were taken and when to avoid the collision; (n) The parts of each ship which first came into contact and the Approximate angle as illustrated by an appropriate sketch annexed, Between the two ships at the moment of contact; (o) The sound signals that were given, if any, and when; (p) The fault or default, if any, attributed to the other ship; (q) The sound signals, if any, that were heard from the other ship and When.
Form of preliminary act (35) The preliminary act shall be in parallel columns such that the Respective particulars referred to in subrule (34) (a) to (q) in Respect of each ship can be easily compared.
Preliminary act not to be opened (36) A preliminary act shall not be opened unless all parties consent Or the court, on application of one of the parties, orders it to Be opened.
Preliminary act to form part of pleading (37) After a preliminary act has been opened, it shall form part of the Appropriate pleadings of the party.
Rule 56 — contempt of court Power of court to punish (1) The power of the court to punish contempt of court shall be Exercised by an order of committal or by imposition of a fine or Both.
Corporation in contempt (2) An order against a corporation wilfully disobeyed may be enforced By one or more of the following:
(a) Imposition of a fine upon the corporation; (b) Committal of one or more directors or officers of the corporation; (c) Imposition of a fine upon one or more directors or officers of the Corporation.
Security for good behaviour (3) Instead of or in addition to making an order of committal or Imposing a fine, the court may order a person to give security for The person's good behaviour.
Certain acts as contempt (4) A person who is guilty of an act or omission described in rule 2 (5) or 40 (19), in addition to being subject to any consequences Prescribed by those rules, is guilty of contempt of court and Subject to the court's power to punish contempt of court.
Apprehension of person (5) Where the court is of the opinion that a person may be guilty of Contempt of court, it may order, by warrant in form 63 directed to A sheriff or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, That the person be apprehended and brought before the court. on The person being brought before the court, the court in a summary Manner may adjudge the innocence or guilt of the person and punish The person for the contempt, if any, or may give the directions it Thinks fit for the determination of the person's innocence or Guilt and punishment.
Idem
(6) Where the court is of the opinion that a corporation may be guilty Of contempt of court, it may order by its warrant in form 63 Directed to a sheriff or other officer of the court or to a peace Officer, that any director, officer or employee of the corporation Be apprehended and brought before the court. on the person being Brought before the court, the court in a summary manner may Adjudge the innocence or guilt of the corporation and punish the Corporation for the contempt, if any, or may give the directions It thinks fit for the determination of its innocence or guilt and The punishment to be imposed.
Proceeding for contempt (7) A party taking proceedings for contempt shall serve the alleged Contemnor with a copy of the notice of motion and all affidavits In support of it at least 7 days before the hearing of the Application.
Idem
(8) An application under subrule (7) shall be supported by affidavit Setting out the conduct alleged to be contempt of court.
Hearing
(9) The court may give directions as to the mode of hearing the Application, including an order that the matter be transferred to The trial list under rule 52 (11).
Service of order not necessary (10) Where the court is satisfied that a person has actual notice of The terms of an order of the court, it may find the person guilty Of contempt for disobedience of the order, notwithstanding that The order has not been served on the person.
Suspension of punishment (11) The court at any time may direct that the punishment for contempt Be suspended for the period or on the terms or conditions it may Specify.
Discharge of person (12) The court, on application by or on behalf of a person committed to Prison for contempt may discharge that person, notwithstanding That the period of the committal may not have elapsed.
Weekly review of person in custody (13) Where the court orders a person committed without specifying in Days, weeks or months the period of the committal, the sheriff Shall bring that person before the court at intervals of not more Than 7 days, in order that the court may review the committal and Determine whether relief as set out in subrule (11) or (12) should Be granted.
Rule 57 — costs How costs assessed generally (1) Where costs are payable to a party under these rules or by order (a) By another party, (b) Out of a fund of other parties, or (c) Out of a fund in which the party whose costs are being assessed Has a common interest with other persons, They shall be assessed as party and party costs under appendix b, Unless the court orders that they be assessed as special costs.
Costs to be reasonable (2) On an assessment of party and party costs, the registrar shall Allow those fees under appendix b that were proper or reasonably Necessary to conduct the proceeding.
Special costs (3) Where the court orders that costs be assessed as special costs, The registrar shall allow those fees that the registrar considers Were proper or reasonably necessary to conduct the proceeding to Which the fees relate, and, in exercising that discretion, the Registrar shall consider all of the circumstances, including (a) The complexity of the proceeding and the difficulty or the novelty Of the issues involved, (b) The skill, specialized knowledge and responsibility required of The solicitor, (c) The amount involved in the proceeding, (d) The time reasonably expended in conducting the proceeding, (e) The conduct of any party that tended to shorten, or to Unnecessarily lengthen, the duration of the proceeding, (f) The importance of the proceeding to the party whose bill is being Assessed, and the result obtained, and (g) The benefit to the party whose bill is being assessed of the Services rendered by the solicitor.
Expenses and disbursements (4) In addition to the fees allowed on an assessment under subrule (1) Or (3), the registrar shall allow a reasonable amount for expenses And disbursements that were necessarily or properly incurred in The conduct of the proceeding.
Estate administration act (5) Unless the court on application otherwise orders, where costs are Payable for any non-contentious business under rule 61, those Costs
(a) Shall be assessed as special costs, and (b) May be assessed without an order of the court And subrules (3) and (4) apply.
Assessment officer (6) The officer before whom costs are assessed is the registrar.
Assessment before registrar (7) Where the court has made an order for costs, (a) Any party may, at any time before the registrar issues the Certificate under subrule (32), apply for directions to the judge Who made the order for costs, (b) The judge may direct that any item of costs, charges or Disbursements be allowed or disallowed, and (c) The registrar is bound by any direction given by the judge.
Disbursements
(8) On an assessment, the registrar shall allow those costs, charges And disbursements that were necessarily or properly incurred, and Where there is a review between a solicitor and the solicitor's Own client under the Legal profession act , the registrar may allow charges and disbursements that were Specifically authorized by the client.
Costs to follow event (9) Subject to subrule (12), costs of and incidental to a proceeding Shall follow the event unless the court otherwise orders.
Costs in cases within small claims jurisdiction (10) A plaintiff who recovers a sum within the jurisdiction of the Provincial court under the Small claims act Is not entitled to costs, other than disbursements, unless the Court finds that there was sufficient reason for bringing the Proceeding in the supreme court and so orders.
Costs where party represented by an employee (11) A party is not disentitled to costs on the ground only that the Lawyer who represented the party is an employee of the party.
Costs of motions (12) Unless the court hearing a motion otherwise orders, (a) The party making a motion that is granted is entitled to costs as Costs in the cause, but the party opposing it is not entitled to Costs as costs in the cause, (b) The party making a motion that is refused is not entitled to costs As costs in the cause, but the party opposing it is entitled to Costs as costs in the cause, and (c) Where a motion made by one party and not opposed by the other is Granted, the costs of the motion are costs in the cause.
Lump sum costs of proceeding (13) With the consent of the parties, the court may fix a lump sum as The costs of the whole proceeding, either inclusive or exclusive Of disbursements and expenses.
Costs arising from improper act or omission (14) Where anything is done or omitted improperly or unnecessarily, by Or on behalf of a party, the court or the registrar may order (a) That any costs arising from the act or omission not be allowed to The party, or (b) That the party pay the costs incurred by any other party by reason Of the act or omission.
Costs of part of proceeding (15) The court may award costs that relate to some particular issue or Part of the proceeding or may award costs except so far as they Relate to some particular issue or part of the proceeding.
Costs payable from estate or property (16) Where it is ordered that any costs shall be paid out of an estate Or property, the court may direct out of what portion of the Estate or property the costs shall be paid.
Set-off of costs (17) Where a party entitled to receive costs is liable to pay costs to Another party, the registrar may assess the costs the party is Liable to pay and may adjust them by way of deduction or set-off Or may delay the allowance of the costs the party is entitled to Receive until the party has paid or tendered the costs the party Is liable to pay.
Costs of one defendant payable by another (18) Where the costs of one defendant against a plaintiff ought to be Paid by another defendant, the court may order payment to be made By one defendant to the other directly, or the. plaintiff to pay The costs of the successful defendant and allow that defendant to Include these costs as a disbursement in the costs payable to that Defendant by the unsuccessful defendant.
Unnecessary expense after judgment (19) Where after pronouncement of judgment a party puts another party To unnecessary proceedings or expense, the registrar may award Costs as the registrar thinks proper against the offending party.
Offer to settle by plaintiff (20) (a) in an action for damages, the plaintiff, at any time before The commencement of the trial, may deliver an offer to settle in Form 64, specifying the claim or part of the claim in respect of Which the offer is made and specifying a sum that the plaintiff is Willing to accept in satisfaction of it.
(b) An offer to settle may be revoked at any time before a payment Into court under subrule (21) or the filing of a consent to Judgment under subrule (24) by delivering a revocation in form 65.
Defendant may pay into court in acceptance (21) At any time before the trial begins, a defendant to whom an offer To settle is delivered may file a copy of the offer and pay into Court the sum or any of the sums specified in the offer and shall Forthwith deliver to the plaintiff a notice of payment into court In form 28, specifying the claim or claims in respect of which Payment is made.
Payment in to stay proceeding (22) Where money has been paid into court under this rule, all further Proceedings in respect of the specified claim, or part of the Claim, except for recovery of costs, shall be stayed. the Plaintiff is entitled, on receiving notice of the payment into Court, to obtain payment out of court of the sum paid in by filing A praecipe for that purpose.
Payment out (23) Where in this rule provision is made for payment out to a party, The money may, with the party's written authorization, be paid to The party's solicitor.
Consent to judgment (24) Instead of making payment into court under subrule (21), a Defendant to whom an offer to settle has been delivered may file And deliver to the plaintiff a consent to judgment in form 66, Specifying the claim or part of claim in respect of which the Defendant consents to judgment, which shall entitle the plaintiff Forthwith to enter judgment in form 87 against that defendant in Accordance with the consent and for costs.
Effect of offer (25) Where a defendant fails to pay into court or to file and deliver a Consent to judgment under this rule and the plaintiff proceeds and Recovers an amount equal to or greater than the amount specified In an offer to settle delivered by the plaintiff, the court may Award up to double costs to the plaintiff for the tariff items Covering preparation for trial, trial and proceedings after trial Other than appeal, as set out in appendix b, exclusive of Disbursements and expenses.
Offer not an admission (26) The delivery of an offer to settle is not an admission by the Plaintiff that the plaintiff's claim is limited to the sum Specified.
No communication of offer to court (27) The fact that an offer to settle has been delivered shall not be Stated in the pleadings and shall not be communicated to the court Or a jury until all questions of liability and amount of the Damages have been decided.
Form of bill of costs (28) A bill of costs shall be in form 67.
Appointment to assess costs (29) A party who wishes to have costs assessed shall file a bill of Costs and obtain an appointment from the registrar in form 24, And, subject to subrule (30), shall, at least 2 days before the Assessment, deliver a copy of the appointment and any affidavit in Support to the party against whom costs are to be assessed.
Delivery of appointment (30) Delivery of an appointment for assessment of costs, the bill of Costs and an affidavit in support is not necessary where the party Against whom costs are to be assessed has not entered an Appearance.
Costs to be paid out of fund (31) Where costs are to be paid or raised out of a fund or property, The registrar, before completing the assessment of the bill of Costs, may require a solicitor to deliver or send to any person Affected a copy of the bill of costs, accompanied by any statement The registrar may direct and a letter informing the person that The bill of costs has been referred to the registrar for Assessment and will be proceeded with at the time and place the Registrar has appointed.
Certificate
(32) On the conclusion of an assessment, the registrar shall, either by Endorsing the original bill of costs or by issuing a certificate, Certify, in form 68, the amount of costs awarded, and the party Assessing costs shall file the certificate.
Appeal
(33) A party who is dissatisfied with a decision of the registrar on an Assessment may, within 14 days after the registrar has certified The costs, apply to the court for a review of the assessment, and The court may make an order as it thinks just.
Form of bill in certain cases (34) A bill for special costs or a bill under the Legal profession act May be rendered on a lump sum basis.
Description of services (35) A lump sum bill shall contain a description of the nature of the Services and of the matter involved as would, in the opinion of The registrar, afford any solicitor sufficient information to Advise a client on the reasonableness of the charge made.
Evidence of solicitor (36) A party to an assessment or a review of a lump sum bill may put in Evidence the opinion of a solicitor as to the nature and Importance of the services rendered and of the matter involved and The reasonableness of the charges made, but no party shall put in Evidence the opinions of more than 2 solicitors, and a solicitor Giving an opinion may be required to attend for examination and Cross-examination.
Disallowance of solicitor client costs (37) Where the court considers that a solicitor for a party has caused Costs to be incurred without reasonable cause, or has caused costs To be wasted through delay, neglect or some other fault, the court May do any one or more of the following:
(a) Disallow any fees and disbursements between the solicitor and the Solicitor's client or, where those fees or disbursements have been Paid, order that the solicitor repay some or all of them to the Client;
(b) Order that the solicitor indemnify his or her client for all or Part of any costs that the client has been ordered to pay to Another party; (c) Order that the solicitor be personally liable for all or part of Any costs that his or her client has been ordered to pay to Another party; (d) Make any other order that the court considers appropriate.
Costs may be ordered without assessment (38) Where the court makes an order under subrule (37), the court may (a) Direct the registrar to conduct an inquiry and file a report with Recommendations as to the amount of costs, or (b) Subject to subrule (41), fix the costs with or without reference To the tariff in appendix b.
Notice
(39) An order against a solicitor under subrule (37) or (38) shall not Be made unless the solicitor is present or has been given notice.
Idem
(40) A solicitor against whom an order under subrule (37) or (38) has Been made shall promptly serve a copy of the order on his or her Client.
Limitation
(41) An order by the court under subrule (38) (b) in respect of the Costs of an interlocutory application shall not exceed $500.
Assessment of costs from fund or estate (42) On the assessment of costs to be borne by a fund or estate the Registrar may direct which parties are to attend before the Registrar and may disallow the costs of a party whose attendance The registrar considers unnecessary.
Refusal or neglect to procure assessment (43) If a party entitled to costs fails to assess costs and prejudices Another party by failing to do so, the registrar may certify the Costs of the other party and certify the failure and disallow all Costs of the party in default.
Referrals
(44) Unless the court otherwise orders, fees to counsel, accountants, Engineers, actuaries, valuators, merchants and other scientific Persons to whom any matter or question is referred by the court Shall be determined by the registrar, subject to an appeal to the Court.
Commencement
(45) This rule applies to all assessments under appendix b that take Place after september 1, 1990 pursuant to an order entitling a Party to costs, whether or not that order is made before or after That date, but, for assessments that take place after september 1, 1990 and before march 1, 1991, the maximum amount that is Allowable, exclusive of expenses and disbursements, in any Proceeding where an order is entered upon a settlement after Pleadings are closed or where judgment is obtained after trial or Hearing, is $10 000.
Idem
(46) For the purposes of subrule (45), a party becomes entitled to Costs
(a) When an order for costs is pronounced, or (b) Where a judgment is silent in the matter of costs, from the time That judgment in the proceeding is entered Whichever date first occurs.
Rule 58 — money in court Interpretation
(1) In this rule, unless the context otherwise requires, "financial institution" Means a bank, credit union or trust company designated by the Minister;
"funds" Means any money that has been paid into or deposited in court, Except money paid (a) Under the Court order enforcement act , (b) For security for costs, (c) In satisfaction of a claim, or (d) For bail; "minister" Means the minister of finance and corporate relations; "registrar" Means the registrar or district registrar of the court into whose Registry the funds or securities have been paid or deposited; "securities" Means any bonds, stocks, shares, debentures or other securities.
Deposit of funds (2) All funds shall be deposited forthwith by the registrar in a Financial institution and shall after that be paid by the Registrar to the minister, accompanied by a certified copy of the Order directing payment in, or, if the funds have been paid into Court without an order, with a statement showing the particulars Of the payment in.
Deposit of securities (3) All securities deposited in court shall be accompanied by a Certified copy of the order directing deposit in court and listing The securities or, if the securities are deposited without an Order listing the securities, by a statement listing the Securities.
Idem
(4) The securities shall be transmitted forthwith after deposit by Registered mail, insured to the extent of their par value, or Through a financial institution, by the registrar to the minister, Together with a certified copy of the order or the statement.
Payment out of court (5) Funds and securities shall be paid out or delivered, on authority Of an order of the court, on production of a certified copy of the Order or authorization by the registrar for payment out, and shall Be paid or delivered to the person named in the order or Authorization.
Interest
(6) All funds held in court shall draw interest, payable by the Minister, for each 3 month period after june 30, 1983 at 2% below The prime lending rate of the banker to the province on september 30, december 31, march 31 and june 30 respectively, in each year, With interest to be compounded on june 30 and december 31 in each Year.
Idem
(7) The interest paid under this rule is instead of any interest Earned upon an investment made by the minister under subrule (10).
Calculation of interest (8) Interest under subrule (6) is payable on all funds up to $100 000 From the first day of the month following payment into court until The last day of the month before payment out of court, and on all Funds in excess of $100 000 from the date of payment into court Until the date of payment out.
Account
(9) For the purpose of segregating the funds from other money held by The minister, the minister shall create an account in the treasury Designated "investments, supreme court act", and the funds held in This account shall constitute a trust, and shall, at all times, be Substantially equal to the funds held by the minister under this Rule.
Investments
(10) The minister may invest as he or she sees fit all or any part of The funds and convert securities into money.
Direction for payment out (11) Where, by an order of the court, funds are directed to be dealt With, delivered or paid out, the order shall be a direction to the Minister to that effect.
Deposit of other money paid into court (12) Money paid into court, other than funds, shall be deposited by the Registrar in the financial institution and be paid out in Accordance with the existing practice of the court, but the Registrar shall pay to the minister all moneys on deposit for more Than one year.
Idem
(13) Money paid to the minister under this rule shall be held by the Minister in the same manner as funds deposited under subrule (2), Except as to payment of interest.
Money for person under disability (14) In a proceeding in which a sum of money or a security is awarded To a person under a disability, the court may, at or after the Trial, order that the whole or any part of the sum or the security Shall be paid into court to the credit of the person, and, after The payment into court, the sum or the security may be paid out of Court as the court may direct.
Rule 59 — sittings and hearings Under direction of chief justice (1) The court shall dispose of the business before it at the times and In the places the chief justice directs.
Urgency
(2) In case of urgency, an application may be made personally to a Judge of the court, to a master or to a registrar.
Urgency or convenience (3) In case of urgency or convenience, the court, a master or a Registrar may hear an application or matter and may make an order Or decision by telephone.
Rule 60 — matrimonial proceedings Commencement
(1) (a) unless joined with a divorce proceeding, a matrimonial action Shall be commenced by a writ of summons, to which shall be Attached the statement of claim.
(b) Except where otherwise provided by enactment or these rules, a Matrimonial proceeding, other than a matrimonial action, shall be Made by originating application.
Contents of statement of claim (2) The statement of claim shall include the following particulars:
(a) The place and date of the marriage or alleged marriage; (b) The addresses and occupations of the parties to the marriage at The date of the issue of the statement of claim; (c) Whether any party to the marriage is an infant or under any other Disability and, if so, the age of the party or the nature of the Disability;
(d) The name and status of the wife before the marriage; (e) The status of the husband before the marriage; (f) The place and date of birth of the parties to the marriage; (g) The domicile of the parties to the marriage at the date of the Marriage and at the date of the issue of the statement of claim; (h) The ordinary residence of the parties to the marriage for the year Immediately preceding the issue of the writ and whether either Party has actually resided within british columbia for at least 10 Months of that period; (i) The matrimonial offences alleged or other grounds on which relief Is sought; (j) Subject to subrule (5), the name of every person with whom a Matrimonial offence is alleged to have been committed or an Allegation that the plaintiff has made all reasonable efforts to Ascertain the name and has been unable to do so; (k) The names and dates of birth of all living children of the Marriage;
(1) Where a claim is made for custody of any child, particulars of his Or her past, present and proposed homes, maintenance and education And the facts on which the claim is founded; (m) Where a claim is made for alimony or maintenance, a statement of The income and property of the respective parties to the marriage So far as they are known to the plaintiff and whether a separation Agreement or financial arrangement exists between them; (n) A statement of all previous proceedings instituted with reference To the marriage or to any child of the marriage and the results of Those proceedings.
Amendment of statement of claim (3) The statement of claim may be amended to add an allegation of a Matrimonial offence, whether it is alleged to have occurred before Or after the commencement of the action.
Allegation of criminal offence (4) If the action is based on a matrimonial offence which is a Criminal offence for which a defendant has been convicted, the Other person who was involved in the offence shall not be named in The statement of claim.
Service
(5) The writ of summons and statement of claim shall be served on each Defendant and any person with whom it is alleged that a Matrimonial offence has been committed.
Service on infant (6) Notwithstanding rule 11(2), service of a writ of summons and Statement of claim in a matrimonial action on an infant who has Attained the age of 16 years shall be effected by service on the Infant.
Service on infant child of marriage (7) Subject to subrule (6) and unless the court otherwise orders, it Is not necessary to serve the writ of summons and statement of Claim on any child of the marriage.
Appearance by person named (8) By entering an appearance and filing and delivering a statement of Defence, a person named in a statement of claim may take part in The action as if he or she were a defendant.
Infant acting without guardian ad litem (9) An infant who has attained the age of 16 years and who is a party To or named in a matrimonial action may act without a guardian ad Litem, but if the court considers it is in the interest of the Infant or any of his or her children, it may appoint a guardian ad Litem.
Interim alimony or maintenance (10) A plaintiff or defendant may apply at any time for interim alimony Or maintenance.
Permanent alimony or maintenance (11) Permanent alimony or maintenance shall, unless otherwise ordered, Commence from the date of judgment.
Security for costs (12) The court may at any time make an order for the payment of or Security for the costs of a plaintiff or defendant.
No judgment except at trial (13) In an action for nullity of marriage or for judicial separation, No judgment shall be entered on the consent of the parties, or in Default of appearance or of pleading, or otherwise than after a Trial.
Trial by jury when damages claimed (14) A matrimonial action shall be heard by the court without a jury; But in a matrimonial action where damages are claimed a party may Require a jury trial under rule 39 (26).
Variance of orders (15) A plaintiff or defendant may apply at any time to vary or rescind An order concerning alimony, maintenance or custody.
Offer to settle (16) At any time before the commencement of a trial or hearing, a Spouse may deliver an offer in form 94 to settle a claim for Support, maintenance or property made under the Divorce act, 1985 Or the Family relations act .
Revocation
(17) An offer may be revoked at any time before the offer is accepted By delivering a revocation in form 95 to the spouse to whom the Offer was made.
Acceptance
(18) An offer may be accepted at any time before the court makes an Order disposing of a claim in respect of which the offer is made By delivering notice of acceptance in form 96 to the spouse who Made the offer.
Order
(19) Where an offer is accepted, the court may incorporate any of the Terms of the offer into an order and, in exercising its discretion As to costs, the court may take into account the terms of the Offer, the date on which the offer was delivered and the date on Which notice of acceptance was delivered.
Effect of offer (20) Where an offer is not accepted, no communication respecting the Offer shall be made to the court until the court makes an order Disposing of the claim in respect of which the offer has been Made, at which time the court, in exercising its discretion as to Costs, may take into account the terms of the offer and the date On which the offer was delivered and may award the costs of the Trial or hearing to the spouse who made the offer, payable as Special costs under rule 57 (3), or may award up to double costs To the spouse who made the offer for the tariff items covering Preparation for trial or hearing, trial or hearing, and Proceedings after trial or hearing other than appeal, as set out In appendix b, exclusive of disbursements and expenses.
No communication of offer to court (21) Where an offer is revoked, no communication respecting the offer Shall be made to the court at any time.
Searching of matrimonial files (22) Unless the court otherwise orders, no person, other than a Solicitor, a party or a person authorized by a party, may search a Registry file in respect of a proceeding brought under the Divorce act, 1985 , the Divorce act Or the Family relations act .
Filing of agreements under Family relations act (23) A written agreement referred to in section 74.1 of the Family relations act May be filed for enforcement where (a) Every party to the agreement has signed a consent in form 90 Before a commissioner, and (b) An original signed copy of the agreement and the consents required Under paragraph (a) are filed with the court.
Searching of filed separation agreements (24) Unless the court orders otherwise, no person, other than a party To the agreement or the party's solicitor, is entitled to search a Separation agreement filed under section 74.1 of the Family relations act .
Rule 60a — Family relations act And divorce proceedings disclosure Interpretation
(1) In this rule "application" Means
(a) An application to the court for relief under part 3 of the Family relations act , (b) A claim under the Divorce act, 1985 For a support order or a variation order, and (c) An application for child or spousal maintenance under part 4 of The
Family relations act ; "respondent" Includes a defendant, and where the claim is raised by Counterclaim or counter-petition, includes a plaintiff or Petitioner.
Property and financial statement Delivery of property and financial statement by applicant (2) Where a party makes a claim under the Divorce act , 1985 for a support order or a variation order or makes an Application for child or spousal maintenance under part 4 of the Family relations act , whether or not the claim or application is made in conjunction With an application under part 3 of the Family relations act , (a) The applicant shall complete both parts of a property and Financial statement in form 89 and deliver it to the respondent Within 30 days after service of the originating document, and (b) The applicant shall attach to the property and financial statement (i) Copies of the applicant's 3 most recent income tax returns, Together with attachments, if any, (ii) A copy of the most recent assessment notice from the b.c.
Assessment authority for any property that he or she owns in whole Or in part, (iii) Copies of 3 recent pay slips from his or her employer, and (iv) If he or she is unemployed and in receipt of benefits under the Unemployment insurance act (canada), copies of the 3 most recent u.i.c. benefit statements.
Delivery of property and financial statement by applicant (3) Where an application is made only under part 3 of the Family relations act , the applicant shall complete part 2 of a property and financial Statement in form 89 and deliver it to the respondent within 30 Days after service of the originating document or, where there is No address for delivery, mail it to the last known address of the Respondent by ordinary mail.
Delivery of property and financial statement by respondent (4) An applicant may serve a respondent with a notice in form 91 to Deliver a property and financial statement and, whether or not he Or she intends to defend the application, the respondent shall, Within 30 days after the date of service, deliver to the applicant A completed property and financial statement in form 89 and shall Attach to the statement the documents referred to in subrule (2) (b).
Idem
(5) The notice in form 91 may be served by the applicant with the Originating document or afterwards.
Application to court (6) If a party who is served with a notice in form 91 fails to deliver A property and financial statement in accordance with a notice to Deliver under subrule (4), the court may, on the application of The party who served the notice, order that the property and Financial statement be delivered to the applicant on terms the Court considers appropriate.
Trial may proceed (7) An application may be set down for trial or hearing even though The other party has not delivered a property and financial Statement.
Demand for particulars (8) If a property and financial statement lacks particularity, the Other party may demand particulars.
Particulars
(9) If the other party fails to supply the particulars within 7 days After the demand, the court may, on terms it considers Appropriate,
(a) Order particulars to be delivered within a specified time, or (b) Order that a new property and financial statement be delivered Within a specified time.
Sanctions for failure to deliver (10) If a party fails to comply with an order to deliver a property and Financial statement, a new property and financial statement, or Particulars, the court may do either or both of the following:
(a) Dismiss the application or strike a party's responding document; (b) Make a contempt order against the party in default, Cross examination (11) A party may be cross examined on his or her property and financial Statement at any time before the trial or hearing, and rules 27 And 40 (27) and (29) apply to the cross examination.
Material change in circumstances (12) Where a material change in circumstances renders information in a Party's property and financial statement, or particulars, Inaccurate or incomplete, the party is under a continuing Obligation to deliver a written statement setting out particulars Of the accurate or complete information.
Consequences of correcting answers (13) Where a party provides a statement under subrule (12), (a) The statement may be treated at a hearing as if it formed part of The original property and financial statement of the party, and (b) The other party may, with leave of the court, require that the Statement be verified by an affidavit of the party, or be the Subject of further cross examination.
Current statement (14) A party who has delivered a property and financial statement shall Deliver an updated current statement at least 30 days and not more Than 60 days before the commencement of the trial or hearing, but The party may not be cross examined before trial on the updated Property and financial statement, unless the court gives leave or The parties agree.
Order for sealing statement (15) Where the court considers that public disclosure of any Information required to be contained in a property and financial Statement would be a hardship on the person giving the statement, The court may order that the statement and the transcript of a Cross examination on it, shall forthwith be sealed in an envelope, And no person shall search it without an order of the court.
Disclosure of business interests Production of documents (16) Where a party discloses business or corporate interests in a Property and financial statement delivered under this rule, the Party receiving the statement may, in writing, request the other To produce for inspection and copying specified documents or Classes of documents in the other party's possession or control That might reasonably be required to enable the valuation of the Party's interest to be verified.
Responding to demand (17) A party receiving a request under subrule (16) shall, within 21 Days, deliver a notice to the requesting party stating (a) A time and place, during normal business hours, at which the Documents may be inspected, and (b) The cost of copying the documents.
Request to third parties (18) If the party who made the request is not satisfied with the Response to the request, that party may make a written request to The corporation, partnership or proprietorship in which the other Party has disclosed an interest, to produce for inspection all Documents that are relevant to the valuation of the interest.
Production required (19) A corporation, partnership or proprietorship receiving a request Under subrule (18) shall, (a) Within 21 days, provide a written statement to the requesting Party detailing those documents, in its possession or control, Required to be produced pursuant to a request made under subrule (18) and identifying those documents, if any, in respect of which The corporation, partnership or proprietorship intends to seek an Exemption under subrule (21), (b) Specify a time and place at which the documents may be inspected, And
(c) Specify the cost of copying the documents it is required to Produce.
Application to court for directions (20) A corporation, partnership or proprietorship or any of the parties May apply to the court at any time for directions respecting any Request for production of documents under subrule (16) or (18), Including directions respecting payment of the costs of Reproduction of the documents, and the court may give those Directions accordingly.
Application to court for exemption (21) A corporation, partnership or proprietorship may, within 21 days After the date a request is served on it under subrule (18), apply To the court for an order exempting it from the requirement to Produce any document.
Application by person authorized (22) An application under subrule (20) or (21) shall be made by a Person who has been authorized by the corporation, partnership or Proprietorship for that purpose.
Court may order exemption (23) On an exemption application under subrule (21), the court may Issue an order exempting the applicant from the requirement to Produce all or any documents and information, as the case may be, Where the court considers that (a) Documents and information received from the other party are Sufficient for the purposes of the main application, (b) The production of the documents and information is not necessary For the purposes of the main application, (c) In the case of a corporation, the prejudice likely to be caused to The corporation, or to its directors or shareholders, by refusing To exempt the corporation, outweighs the prejudice likely to be Caused to the person requesting the information if the corporation Is exempted, or (d) In the case of a partnership, the prejudice likely to be caused to The partnership, or to its partners or associates by refusing to Exempt the partnership, outweighs the prejudice likely to be Caused to the person requesting the information.
Confidentiality
(24) Any person who has access to documents obtained under this rule Shall keep the documents and any information contained in them in Confidence and shall not disclose the information to anyone other Than for the purposes of a valuation of the asset or in the course Of permitting the documents to be introduced into evidence during The proceeding.
Costs
(25) The costs of production of documents under this subrule and of an Application under subrule (20) or (21) are in the discretion of The court and the court may order that the costs may be paid in Favour of or against (a) Either of the parties to the proceeding, or (b) The corporation, partnership or owner of the proprietorship.
Idem
(26) The court may order when any costs awarded under subrule (25) are Payable.
Rule 60b — divorce rules Interpretation
(1) In this rule:
"act" Means the Divorce act, 1985 ; "court" Means the supreme court; "petition for divorce" Includes a counter-petition; "undefended divorce proceeding" Means a divorce proceeding where no answer or answer and Counter-petition has been filed, or if filed has been withdrawn, Discontinued or struck out, and includes a proceeding where no Answer has been filed to a counter-petition, or if filed has been Withdrawn or struck out, and the petition for divorce has been Discontinued or dismissed.
Application of rules (2) Subject to this rule, (a) The rules of court, (b) The forms in appendix a, and (c) Appendices b and c, Apply to a proceeding under the act.
Idem
(3) Without limiting subrule (2), rules 8, 9, 26 to 29 apply to a Proceeding under this rule.
Joinder
(4) Unless the court otherwise orders, no cause of action, other than A claim under the Family relations act , may be joined with a divorce proceeding.
Person to be named (5) Subject to this rule, the name of each person alleged to be Involved in the breakdown of a marriage under section 8 (2) (b) (i) of the act, if known, shall be set out in a petition for Divorce.
Idem
(6) Where the name of a person referred to in subrule (5),unknown at The time of issue of a petition for divorce, is subsequently Ascertained,
(a) The petition for divorce shall be amended in accordance with Subrule (15), and (b) Unless the court otherwise orders, the person named shall be Served with a copy of the amended petition for divorce.
Respondent
(7) Only the petitioner's spouse and a person against whom a claim for Relief is made in a divorce proceeding, including a claim for Costs, shall be made a respondent.
Where criminal offence alleged (8) Unless the court otherwise orders, where a petition for divorce, Or an application in a corollary relief proceeding or a variation Proceeding, contains allegations of a criminal offence for which The spouse or party against whom the proceeding is brought has Been convicted, no other person involved in the offence shall be Made a respondent or named in the petition for divorce or Application.
Commencement of divorce proceeding (9) A divorce proceeding shall be commenced by issuing out of a Registry of the court a petition for divorce prepared by the Petitioner in form 97.
Joint petition (10) Where spouses claim a divorce on the ground that there has been a Breakdown of their marriage under section 8 (2) (a) of the act and No order, except by consent, for any other relief is claimed, (a) A divorce proceeding may be commenced by both spouses jointly by Issuing out of a registry of the court a petition for divorce Prepared by them in form 100, and (b) The petition for divorce need not be served.
Filing of certificate (11) Unless the registrar grants leave to file one at some other time During the proceeding, the petitioner shall file a certificate of The marriage or a certified copy of the registration of the Marriage, before a petition for divorce is issued.
Exclusion
(12) Subrule (11) does not apply where the registrar is satisfied that A certificate of the marriage or a certified copy of the Registration of the marriage cannot be produced, and the reason is Stated in the petition.
Sealing of petition (13) A petition for divorce is issued when it has been sealed by the Registrar.
Deposit of petition (14) The petitioner or the petitioner's solicitor shall leave the Original petition for divorce with the registrar, who shall return As many copies of the petition as issued as the petitioner or his Or her solicitor requests.
Amendment
(15) Subject to rules 15 (5) and 31 (5), a petition for divorce may be Amended at any time, with leave of the court, and without leave (a) At any time before service, and (b) Once after service and before answer.
Idem
(16) Subject to subrule (15), a petition for divorce may be amended by Adding a further allegation of breakdown of the marriage, whether The act alleged to establish the breakdown of the marriage Occurred before or after, or partly before and partly after, the Petition for divorce was issued.
Idem
(17) Unless the court otherwise orders, (a) An amended petition for divorce shall be served and answer may be Made to it within the times prescribed by this rule, and (b) A copy of an order granting leave to amend a petition for divorce Shall be served with the amended document.
Security for costs (18) The court may, at any time after a petition for divorce has been Issued, make an order for security for costs in favour of any Party to the proceeding.
Service
(19) Unless the court otherwise orders, a petition for divorce shall be Served on every respondent and every person named under subrule (5) by leaving a copy of the petition as issued with that person.
Idem
(20) A petition for divorce shall be served by someone other than the Petitioner, and may be served by the petitioner's solicitor or a Partner or employee of the solicitor.
Idem
(21) After the time for answer has elapsed, service or delivery of any Further document on a respondent or person named in a petition for Divorce who has not filed an answer shall not be required, unless The court otherwise orders.
Idem
(22) The court may dispense with service of a petition for divorce on a Respondent, other than the respondent spouse, or a person named Who cannot be found, if no claim is made against that respondent Or person or, if made, is abandoned.
Answer
(23) A respondent or other person named in a petition for divorce who Wishes to oppose a claim or allegation made in it shall (a) File an answer in form 98 or form 99, and (b) Deliver a copy to the petitioner or the petitioner's solicitor at The address for delivery shown in the petition for divorce.
Idem
(24) A respondent who claims relief against the petitioner, other than Dismissal of the divorce proceeding and costs, shall (a) File and issue an answer and counter-petition in form 101, and (b) Serve a copy on the petitioner personally or, where the petitioner Has a solicitor, deliver a copy to that solicitor.
Idem
(25) Subject to this rule, a respondent who claims relief against the Petitioner and any other person not already a party to the divorce Proceeding, may join that other person as a respondent to the Answer and counter-petition.
Idem
(26) The name of the other person referred to in subrule (25) shall be Added to the style of proceeding in the answer and Counter-petition and all subsequent documents as "respondent by Counter-petition".
Idem
(27) A respondent by counter-petition shall be personally served with a Copy of the answer and counter-petition, together with copies of All pleadings previously filed in the divorce proceeding.
Idem
(28) Where a person named in a petition for divorce, not being a Respondent, wishes to claim relief, (a) That person shall apply to be added as a respondent within the Time limited to file and issue an answer or an answer and Counter-petition, and (b) The court may fix the time within which that person may issue and Serve an answer or answer and counter-petition.
Time for answer (29) An answer or an answer and counter-petition for divorce shall be Filed and served or delivered as required by this rule, (a) Where the petition for divorce is served in british columbia, Within 20 days after service, (b) Where the petition for divorce is served elsewhere in canada or in One of the continental united states of america, within 40 days After service, or (c) Where the petition for divorce is served anywhere else, within 60 Days after service.
Party who is an infant (30) Subject to subrule (33), an infant who has attained the age of 16 Years is competent to conduct or defend a proceeding under this Rule without a guardian ad litem, and for all purposes of the Proceeding, including any claim or award, shall be deemed to have Reached the age of majority.
Idem
(31) Subrule (30) does not apply to an infant, not being the petitioner Or the petitioner's spouse, who is made a respondent under subrule (7) or (28).
Idem
(32) If service of a document in a proceeding under this rule is Required, it shall be sufficient service on an infant who has Attained the age of 16 years if a copy is left with the infant.
Idem
(33) If the court considers it to be in the interests of a party to a Proceeding under this rule who is under the age of majority, or of A child of that party, the court may, on application or on its own Motion, appoint a guardian ad litem for that party.
Intervention by attorney general (34) At any time before a divorce is granted, the attorney general may Apply to the court for leave to intervene for the purpose of Showing collusion or fraud, or to bring evidence before the court.
Idem
(35) On granting leave to intervene, the court shall give directions Concerning the intervention, including directions respecting the Examination and cross-examination of witnesses the court considers Just and necessary.
Idem
(36) At any stage of a divorce proceeding, the court may direct a stay Of the proceeding for any time that it thinks fit in order that The attorney general may apply to intervene.
Idem
(37) If the court directs a stay of a proceeding under subrule (36), it Shall direct the registrar to notify the attorney general.
Affidavit of service (38) Proof of service of a petition for divorce shall be by affidavit In form 102.
Idem
(39) The affidavit shall show the means by which the deponent Identified the person served.
Idem
(40) Proof of service of a petition for divorce on a person who files An answer or an answer and counter-petition is not necessary.
Certificate of pleadings (41) Before a divorce proceeding is set down for trial, the pleadings, Documents and procedures in the proceeding shall be referred to The registrar, who shall (a) Certify that the same are correct and in order, (b) Require any irregularity in the proceeding or the pleadings to be Corrected, or (c) Refer any irregularity or question arising from the procedure in The proceeding to the court.
Pending earlier proceedings (42) A judgment granting a divorce shall not be rendered unless the Court is satisfied that no earlier divorce proceeding was Instituted and is pending anywhere in canada.
Evidence in undefended divorce (43) In an undefended divorce proceeding, the evidence, and any Information required to enable the court to comply with sections 10 and 11of the act, may be presented by affidavit, unless the Court otherwise orders.
Application for judgment in undefended divorce (44) A petitioner may apply for judgment in an undefended divorce Proceeding at any time after (a) The time allowed has expired, and an answer or answer and Counter-petition has not been filed and served or delivered as Required by this rule, (b) A divorce proceeding in which an answer or answer and counter- Petition has been filed, becomes an undefended divorce proceeding, Or
(c) A petition for divorce has been issued under subrule (10) And the registrar has certified that the pleadings, documents and Procedures are correct and in order.
Idem
(45) An application under subrule (44) may be made to the court by Filing
(a) A praecipe setting out the order sought, (b) A draft order, (c) Proof of service of the petition for divorce, where necessary, (d) The registrar's certificate that the pleadings, documents and Procedures are correct and in order, (e) Proof that an answer or answer and counter-petition has not been Filed or has been withdrawn, discontinued or struck out, (f) Proof that will enable the court to comply with sections 10 and 11 Of the act, and (g) Proof of the allegations upon which the claim for relief is Founded.
Idem
(46) On being satisfied that the application for judgment is Appropriate, the court may (a) Make the order or give judgment without an appearance by counsel Or the petitioner, or (b) Direct that counsel or the petitioner appear, or that oral or Further evidence be presented, and give any directions that it Considers necessary.
Hearing of undefended divorce (47) Where an application for judgment under subrule (44) is not made, An undefended divorce proceeding may be set down for hearing (a) In the same manner as a divorce proceeding which is not Undefended, or (b) In the manner directed by the chief justice, And the evidence and other information required by the court may Be given orally.
Order for divorce (48) An order for divorce, with or without an order for other relief, Shall be substantially in form 103.
Idem
(49) In a divorce proceeding in which a claim is made for divorce Together with one or more other claims, the court may, subject to Section 11 (1) of the act, (a) Grant a divorce and direct that an order for divorce alone be Entered and adjourn the hearing of the other claims, (b) Grant a divorce and direct that an order for divorce alone be Entered and give judgment on the other claims and direct that a Separate order dealing with them be entered, or (c) Give judgment on the other claims and direct that a separate order Dealing with them be entered and adjourn the hearing of the Divorce proceeding.
Idem
(50) Because the act does not permit a final order granting corollary Relief to be made in the absence of a divorce, subrule (49) (c) Does not authorize the court to give final judgment on a claim for Support, custody or access.
Idem
(51) Unless the court otherwise orders, the party entering an order for Divorce shall forthwith mail a copy as entered to the other party At his or her last known address, or to the other party's Solicitor of record.
Idem
(52) Where an order is not entered promptly by the parties entitled to It, the court may direct the registrar to draw and enter the order In which case rule 41 (8) does not apply.
Patients property act (53) Where an affidavit is required for use in a proceeding under the Act and the proposed deponent is a patient as defined in the Patients property act , the affidavit may be sworn by the guardian ad litem of the Patient on information and belief.
Corollary relief proceeding (54) An application to the court for a support order or a custody order By way of a corollary relief proceeding shall be made by Originating application.
Variation proceeding (55) A variation proceeding shall be commenced (a) Where the order sought to be varied was made in a proceeding in The court, by notice of motion in that proceeding, or (b) Where the order sought to be varied was made in any other court, By originating application.
Application by other person (56) An application by any person, other than a spouse or former Spouse, for leave to apply to the court for a custody order, or For an order varying, rescinding or suspending a custody order, Shall be made by originating application, and, where leave is Granted, the application itself shall be made by originating Application.
Interim relief (57) An application to the court for an interim order may be made at Any time after a proceeding claiming a support order or a custody Order has been commenced.
Provisional orders made in british columbia (58) A variation order made in respect of a support order without Notice to and in the absence of the respondent to the variation Proceeding, who is ordinarily resident in another province, shall Show on its face that it is a provisional order, and it has no Legal effect until it is confirmed under section 19 of the act.
Provisional orders made in another province (59) The attorney general shall deliver a provisional order and any Documents received from the attorney general of another province To the district registrar of the registry of the court (a) In which the support order varied by the provisional order is Entered, or (b) Where the support order was not made in british columbia, nearest To the place of residence of the respondent as shown in the Documents.
Idem
(60) The district registrar to whom the provisional order and documents Referred to in subrule (59) are forwarded shall ensure that (a) The respondent in the variation proceeding is served with a copy Of the provisional order and documents, and (b) The applicant and the respondent in the variation proceeding are Served with a notice of the date of a hearing to confirm the Provisional order and, notwithstanding rule 11 (2), service on the Applicant may be by ordinary mail addressed to the applicant's Last known address.
Registration under section 20 of the act (61) Where an order made by another court has legal effect throughout Canada under section 20 (2) of the act, the order may be Registered in the court by filing a certified copy in the victoria Registry, and it shall be entered as an order of the court without A fee.
Idem
(62) An order registered under subrule (61) is enforceable as if it Were an order made by the court.
Enforcement in provincial court (63) A support order made by the court or registered under subrule (61) May be filed with and enforced by the provincial court as if it Were a maintenance order under the Family relations act .
Exchange of orders between provinces (64) A registrar of the court may, on request, send a certified copy of A support order, a custody order or a variation order to the Registrar or other officer of a court, in another province, to a Public welfare organization in another province, or to some other Person designated by the attorney general of another province, Without a fee.
Order under appeal remains in force (65) Where an order for custody or support made under the act is Appealed, the court may order that the order be stayed, in whole Or in part, pending the outcome of the appeal.
Rule 61 — administration of estates (non-contentious) Interpretation and application (1) (a) except where a contrary intention appears, the interpretation Section of the Estate administration act Applies to this rule.
(b) This rule applies to "non-contentious business" defined as the Obtaining of a grant of probate or administration where there is No contention as to the right thereto and includes (i) The obtaining of grants of probate or administration in Contentious cases where the contest has been concluded, (ii) The filing of caveats against the granting of probate or Administration,
(iii) The fixing of remuneration and passing of accounts, and (iv) All non-contentious matters relating to testacy and intestacy, not Being proceedings in an action.
Application for probate or letters of administration (2) Application for probate or letters of administration may be made In any registry.
Idem
(3) Subject to subrule (12), the applicant shall deposit with the Registrar the original will, if any, and file a praecipe and an Affidavit of executor or administrator, in form 69, 70 or 71, and Any further affidavits as may be required by these rules.
Proof of death (4) Where the applicant specifies in the applicant's affidavit the day On which the testator or the intestate died, no further proof of Death shall be required by the registrar. if the fact of the death Is certain, but the exact date is unknown, the affidavit shall State the date on which the deceased was last seen alive and the Date on which his or her body was found.
Approval by registrar (5) The registrar may approve the application and mark the documents As approved, but if the registrar refuses to approve the Application the registrar shall note on the documents his or her Reasons for refusing approval.
Hearing of application (6) The applicant may set down the application for hearing by the Court at any time after the registrar has approved or refused to Approve it.
Proof of execution where no attestation clause (7) Where there is no attestation clause to a will or codicil, or if The attestation clause is insufficient, the registrar shall Require an affidavit from at least one of the subscribing Witnesses, if they or either of them are living, to prove that the Requirements of the Wills act As to execution, were in fact complied with.
Affidavit of witness (8) Where, on perusing the affidavit of a subscribing witness, it Appears that the requirements of the Wills act Were not or may not have been complied with, the registrar shall Refuse to approve the application.
Proof where no affidavit of witness (9) Where no affidavit can be obtained from either subscribing Witness, an affidavit shall be provided from any other person Present at the execution of the will or codicil, but if no Affidavit of any person can be obtained, evidence shall be Provided on affidavit (a) Of that fact and of the handwriting of the deceased and the Subscribing witnesses, and (b) Of any circumstances which may raise a presumption in favour of Proper execution.
Proof of date of execution (10) Where there is doubt as to the date on which a will was executed, The registrar may require evidence he or she thinks necessary to Establish the date, and shall endorse a note of the date on the Will.
Proof in solemn form (11) Where the circumstances appear to justify the direction, the court May require that proof of the will be made in solemn form.
Idem
(12) An application for proof of a will in solemn form shall be by Petition in form 3, and rule 10 applies.
Idem
(13) On application for proof of a will in solemn form, copies of the Petition shall be served on all persons having an interest in Upholding or contesting the validity of the will, and the petition Shall contain a warning to those persons that they will be bound By the result of the proceeding.
Interlineations and alterations (14) When an interlineation or alteration appears in the will, it is, Unless properly executed, or recited in, or otherwise identified By the attestation clause, an affidavit in proof of its existence In the will before execution must be filed, except when the Alteration is of small importance and is evidenced by the initials Of the attesting witnesses.
Erasures and obliterations (15) An erasure or obliteration shall not prevail unless it is (a) Proved to have existed in the will at the time of its execution, (b) Properly executed and attested, or (c) Rendered valid by the re-execution of the will, or by the Subsequent execution of a codicil, But if no satisfactory evidence can be adduced as to the time when The erasure or obliteration was made, and the words erased or Obliterated are not entirely effaced, but can be ascertained on Inspection, the words must form part of the probate.
Affidavit explaining (16) Where words that might have been of importance have been erased or Obliterated, the registrar may require an affidavit explaining the Circumstances.
Document referred to in a will (17) Where a will contains a reference to a document, which is of such Nature as to raise a question whether the document ought to form Part of the will, the registrar shall require the production of The document to ascertain whether it is entitled to probate, and, If not produced, its non-production must be accounted for.
Idem
(18) No document can form part of a will unless it was in existence at The time the will was executed.
Appearance of the paper (19) Where there is an indication on the testamentary papers leading to The inference that a document has been attached to them, the Indication must be satisfactorily explained, or the registrar Shall require the document to be produced, and, if not produced, Its non-production must be accounted for.
Notice to next of kin (20) Where a person applies for letters of administration under section 6 of the Estate administration act , the names and kinship of those having a prior right or an equal Right to a grant shall be shown, and it shall be shown that each Of them has consented or renounced, otherwise the registrar may Direct notice to be given in form 72 to any of them by mail.
Limited administrations (21) Unless the court otherwise orders, a limited administration shall Not be granted unless every person entitled to a general grant has Consented or renounced, or has been cited and has failed to Appear.
Idem
(22) Unless the court otherwise orders, no person entitled to a general Grant of administration of the personal estate and effects of a Deceased will be permitted to take a limited grant.
Grants to an attorney (23) Where a person entitled to administration resides outside british Columbia, administration, or administration with the will annexed, May be granted to the person or the person's attorney acting under A power of attorney.
Grants of administration to guardians (24) With the consent of the public trustee, a grant of administration May be made to the guardians of an infant for his or her use and Benefit.
Administration bonds (25) Unless the court otherwise orders, the bond to be given upon any Grant of administration shall be in form 73 or form 74.
Affidavit of surety (26) The sureties in an administration bond are required to prove by Affidavit that they together have assets equal to the amount of The bond. no registrar shall become surety to any administration Bond.
Idem
(27) In all cases other than those to which section 23 (1) of the Estate administration act Applies, unless the court otherwise orders, not less than 2 Sureties shall be required to the administration bond, and the Bond shall be in an amount as the court may order, and the court May also order that more than one bond shall be given so as to Limit the liability of a surety.
Time of issuing grant (28) Unless the court otherwise orders, no grant of probate or Administration shall issue until after 7 days from the death of The deceased.
Delay in application (29) Where probate or administration is applied for more than 3 years After the death of the deceased, (a) The reason for the delay shall be set out in an affidavit, and (b) The registrar may require further proof of the alleged cause of Delay as the registrar thinks fit.
Identity of parties (30) The registrar may require proof, in addition to the affidavit of The executor or administrator, of the identity of the deceased, or Of the party applying for a grant.
Proof of search for will (31) On every application for administration it must be shown that a Search for a will or testamentary paper has been made in all Places where the deceased usually kept his or her documents, and The applicant must file a letter from the director of vital Statistics showing the results of a search at the director's Office for a notice of a will filed by or on behalf of the Deceased under the Wills act .
Idem
(32) An executor who swears that the executor is presenting the last Will of the deceased, and files a letter from the director of Vital statistics showing the results of a search at the director's Office for a notice of a will filed by or on behalf of the Deceased, shall not be required by the registrar to prove by Affidavit that the executor made a search for a later will.
Renunciations
(33) So person, other than an official administrator, who renounces as Executor of the will or who renounces the right to apply for Administration of the estate of a deceased person in one capacity, Shall be appointed the personal representative of the deceased in Another capacity.
Caveats
(34) A person intending to oppose the issue of a grant of probate or Administration shall, in any registry of the court, file a caveat In form 75.
Idem
(35) The registrar in whose registry a caveat has been filed shall Forthwith notify the registrar at victoria who shall forthwith Notify all other registrars in the province.
Contents of caveat (36) The caveator must declare in the caveat the nature of his interest In the property of the deceased, and state generally the grounds Upon which the caveat is entered. the caveat shall be signed by The caveator, or by the caveator's solicitor, and shall state his Address for delivery to which rule 8 (6) and (7) apply.
Time caveat in force (37) Subject to subrule (42), a caveat remains in force for 6 months After being filed, unless it is sooner withdrawn by notice filed By the caveator, and then it expires and is of no effect, but by Order of the court, it may be renewed from time to time.
No grant while caveat in force (38) No grant of administration or probate shall be made while a caveat Is in force.
Notice to caveator (39) A person intending to apply for probate or administration or Claiming an interest in an estate with respect to which a caveat Has been filed, may file a notice to caveator in form 76 in the Registry in which the caveat was filed, and shall deliver a copy To the address for delivery set out in the caveat.
Contents of notice (40) The notice to caveator shall state the name and interest of the Person on whose behalf it is issued and, if that person claims Under a will or codicil, shall also state (a) The date of the will or codicil, and (b) The person's address for delivery to which rule 8 (6) and (7) Apply.
Appearance to notice (41) An appearance to a notice to caveator shall be in form 7.
Effect of failure to appear to notice (42) Where a notice to caveator has been filed and a copy delivered to The caveator and no appearance has been filed within the time Stated in the notice, the registrar shall cancel the caveat and Notify the registrar at victoria.
Citation to accept executorship (43) Where an executor fails to apply for the probate of a will, any Person interested may cite the executor to accept or refuse Probate of the will, or to show cause why administration should Not be granted to the executor or to some other person having a Prior right who is willing to accept the grant, but no citation Shall issue until 14 days after the testator's death.
Form of citation and answer (44) The citation shall be in form 77 and an answer in form 78.
Citation to propound an alleged will (45) (a) where there is or may be a document that may be alleged to be A will of a deceased person, a citation to propound the document As a will may be issued by any person interested.
(b) The citation must (i) Be in form 79, (ii) Be supported by affidavit, and (iii) Be directed to the executor and any other person named in the Document.
(c) An answer shall be in form 80.
Citation to bring in a will (46) (a) where a testamentary document may be in the possession or Control of a person, a citation may be issued to the person Calling on the person to deposit with the registrar any Testamentary document in the person's possession or control, or to State under oath that no testamentary document is in the person's Possession or control.
(b) The citation shall be in form 81 and shall be supported by Affidavit.
(c) Where it is shown by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the Registrar, that a person has knowledge of a will or other document Or any asset relating to or belonging to an estate, the registrar May issue a subpoena in form 82 for service on that person.
Filing and service of citations and answers (47) A citation shall be served personally, and rules 11, 12 and 13 Apply. an answer shall be filed and delivered.
Foreign grants (48) If probate or administration has been granted by a court of Competent jurisdiction outside british columbia and the grant Cannot be resealed under the provisions of the Probate recognition act , (a) A grant of administration, limited to the estate of the deceased In british columbia, may be made to the attorney of the personal Representative appointed by the foreign court, or (b) An ancillary grant of probate or administration may be made to the Personal representative appointed by the foreign court.
Foreign wills (49) A copy of a foreign will to be annexed to a grant of Administration must be certified by the court out of which probate Or administration has been granted.
Application to reseal grant (50) An application to reseal a grant of probate or letters of Administration under the Probate recognition act May be made in any registry by the personal representative or the Representative's attorney.
Idem
(51) The applicant for resealing shall file the grant of probate or Letters of administration, or a copy certified by the issuing Court.
Affidavit on resealing (52) An application for resealing must be accompanied by an affidavit Of the executor, administrator or attorney, in form 83.
Domicile of deceased on resealing (53) (a) if the domicile of the deceased at the time of death as sworn To in the affidavit differs from that suggested by the description In a foreign grant, the registrar may require further evidence as To domicile.
(b) If the registrar is satisfied that the deceased was not at the Time of death domiciled within the jurisdiction of the court from Which the foreign grant issued, the registrar shall mark the Application accordingly.
Application of other rules on resealing (54) Subrules (5) and (6) apply to an application for resealing.
Grant to be resealed (55) No grant of probate or administration or certified copy shall be Resealed unless it includes a copy of any testamentary paper Admitted to probate.
Notice of resealing (56) Notice of a resealing of a grant shall be sent to the court from Which the grant issued.
Idem
(57) Where the registrar has notice of the resealing of a british Columbia grant, the registrar shall give notice of the revocation Of or any alteration in the grant to the court which resealed it.
Remuneration and passing of accounts (58) An application to the court for passing of accounts and Remuneration shall be made ex parte by notice of motion supported By an affidavit in form 84.
Idem
(59) On the application, the court shall give all necessary directions And may refer the matter to the registrar under rule 32.
Rule 62 — administration of estates (contentious) Interpretation
(1) In this rule "probate action" means an action for the grant of Probate of the will of, or letters of administration of the estate Of, a deceased person, or for the revocation of a grant or for an Order pronouncing for or against the validity of an alleged Testamentary paper, but does not include a proceeding governed by Rule 61.
Dispute as to the validity of a testamentary paper (2) In an action where the validity of a testamentary paper is Questioned, all persons having an interest in upholding or Disputing its validity shall be joined as defendants.
Commencement of action (3) A probate action shall be commenced by writ of summons, and the Endorsement on the writ, or the statement of claim if it is set Out in the writ, shall contain a statement of the interest of the Plaintiff and of each defendant in the estate of the deceased.
Parties
(4) Each person who is entitled or claims to be entitled to administer The estate of a deceased person under or by virtue of an unrevoked Grant of probate or letters or administration must be made a party To any action for revocation of the grant, and by leave of the Court, a person interested in the estate, but not named as a Defendant, may enter an appearance and defend the action as though The person were a defendant.
Action for revocation of grant (5) In an action for the revocation of a grant of probate or Administration,
(a) If the action is commenced by a person to whom the grant was made, The person shall lodge the grant with the registrar within 7 days After the issue of the writ, or (b) If a defendant to the action has the grant in his possession or Under his control, the defendant shall lodge it with the registrar Within 7 days after the service of the writ upon him, And the person to whom the grant was issued shall not act under it Without leave of the registrar.
Failure to lodge grant on action for revocation (6) Where a person fails to comply with subrule (5), the registrar may Issue a citation in form 85 calling on the person to bring the Grant into the registrar's office, and a person against whom the Citation is issued shall not take any step in the action without Leave of the court until the person has complied with the Citation.
Failure to enter appearance (7) Rule 17 does not apply to a probate action, and if a defendant Fails to enter an appearance within the time allowed, the Plaintiff may proceed with the action on serving a statement of Claim.
Counterclaim
(8) A defendant to a probate action who alleges that he or she has a Claim or is entitled to relief or a remedy in respect of a matter Relating to the grant of probate or letters of administration Shall deliver a counterclaim in respect of that claim, relief or Remedy.
Failure to serve statement of claim (9) Where the plaintiff fails to serve a statement of claim, a Defendant may, with the leave of the court, deliver a Counterclaim, and the action shall then proceed as if the Defendant were the plaintiff.
Defence limited to proof in solemn form (10) In a probate action, a statement of defence may state that the Defendant merely requires that the will be proved in solemn form, And that the defendant only intends to cross-examine the witnesses Produced in support of the will, and in that event the defendant Is not liable for costs, unless the court determines that there Was no reasonable ground for requiring proof in solemn form.
Certain rules not to apply (11) Rules 25 (1), (2), (3), (12), (13) and 36 do not apply to a Probate action.
Order for discontinuance or dismissal (12) At any stage of a probate action the court may order the action to Be discontinued or dismissed, and may order that a grant of Probate or administration be made to the person entitled.
Compromise
(13) No probate action shall be compromised without leave of the court.
Rule 63 — crown practice rules in civil matters Originating application (1) Applications for relief in the nature of mandamus, prohibition, Certiorari or habeas corpus are governed by these rules and must Be commenced by petition under rule 10.
Writs abolished (2) No writ of mandamus, prohibition, certiorari or habeas corpus Shall be issued, but all necessary directions shall be made by Order.
Person affected may take part in proceeding (3) The court may order that a person who may be affected by a Proceeding for an order in the nature of mandamus may take part in The proceeding to the same extent as if served with the petition.
Rule 64 — miscellaneous Copy of document filed in registry (1) Unless otherwise provided by an enactment, a person may, on Payment of the proper fees, obtain from the registry a copy of a Document on file in a proceeding.
When registry open (2) Except on saturdays, holidays and those days that are prescribed By the lieutenant governor in council as holidays for the public Service of the province, the registry shall be kept open to the Public for the transaction of business from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.
Hours of registrar (3) The hours of attendance by the registrar and the registry staff Are from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.
Lunch hours (4) Where a registry has insufficient staff to allow continuous staff Attendance at the lunch hour, the chief justice may, in writing, Authorize that registry to close.
Use of seal (5) In each registry the seal, directed by the rules, shall be used And shall be stamped on every writ and other document requiring a Seal, issued out of or filed in that registry.
Name of registry (6) The name of the registry shall be written or stamped on the face Of every document issued from or filed or recorded in a registry.
Signature of registrar (7) Where the signature of the registrar is required on a certificate Relating to a matter of record in the court or registry, a notice, Or any process by consent, in default, or ex parte, the document Shall be deemed to have been signed by the registrar if his or her Name is written, printed, stamped or otherwise made apparent on it By a person appointed by the registrar to perform that function.
Business not to be done out of office hours (8) No writ or process shall be issued from and no proceedings shall Be taken in the registry out of office hours, but in case of Urgency, the court may order that a registry be opened for the Purpose of commencing a proceeding or for some other good reason.
Disposition of præcipes, etc.
(9) A registry may destroy any præcipe or notice of hearing submitted Under rule 10 (11) or (12).
Incapacity of judge before judgment given (10) Where an application ought to be made to, or any jurisdiction Exercised by, the judge by whom a proceeding has been tried or Partly tried, or heard or partly heard, then if that judge dies or Ceases to be a judge of the court during or after the trial or Hearing, or if for any other reason it is impossible or Inconvenient for that judge to act in the proceeding, the chief Justice or next senior judge of the court may either by a special Or by a general order nominate some other judge to whom the Application may be made or by whom the jurisdiction may be Exercised.
Idem
(11) Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, that other Judge may order that the proceeding be restored to the proper Registry for retrial or rehearing, and, in case the original trial Or hearing was upon evidence given viva voce, may direct that the Retrial or rehearing shall be upon an official transcript of that Evidence, or upon such transcript and evidence given viva voce and Evidence given by affidavit, or upon new evidence, or otherwise, As in his or her opinion the circumstances of the case require, And may dispose of the costs of the original trial or hearing and Of the costs of furnishing any copies of the transcript of the Evidence, or may refer the question of costs to the judge Presiding at the retrial or rehearing.
Idem
(12) No directions for a retrial or rehearing which include a direction For the use of the transcript of the evidence shall limit or Restrict the power of the judge presiding at the retrial or Rehearing to permit in his or her discretion the recalling of any Witness called at the original trial or hearing, or to receive Other or additional evidence.
Transfers
(13) At any time after a proceeding is commenced, the court may on Application order it to be transferred from the registry in which It was commenced to any other registry of the court for any or all Purposes.
Appendices
Appendix a Forms
Form 1 (rule 8 (3) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Between
, plaintiff(s) And
, defendant(s) Writ of summons (name and address of each plaintiff) (name and address of each defendant) Elizabeth the second, by the grace of god, of the united kingdom, Canada and her other realms and territories, queen, head of the Commonwealth, defender of the faith.
To the defendant(s):
Take notice that this action has been commenced against you by the Plaintiff(s) for the claim&) set out in this writ.
If you intend to defend this action, or if you have a set off or Counterclaim which you wish to have taken into account at the trial, You must give notice of your intention by filing a form entitled "appearance" in the above registry of this court within the time for Appearance endorsed hereon and you must also deliver a copy of the "appearance" to the plaintiffs address for delivery, which is set Out in this writ.
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance". you may obtain a Form of "appearance" at the registry.
If you fail to file the "appearance" within the proper time for Appearance, judgment may be taken against you without further Notice.
The address of the registry is:
Name and office address of plaintiffs solicitor (if any):
Plaintiff's address for delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
[ Back
] The plaintiffs claim is [or set out a statement of claim in form 13] Dated .............................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or solicitor ] Time for appearance Where this writ is served on a person in british columbia, the time For appearance by that person is 7 days from the service (not Including the day of service).
Where this writ is served on a person outside british columbia, the Time for appearance by that person, after service is 21 days in the Case of a person residing anywhere within canada, 28 days in the Case of a person residing in the united states of america, and 42 Days in the case of a person residing elsewhere. the court may Shorten the time for appearance on Ex parte Application.
Form 2 (rule 10 (2) ) [style of proceeding] Praecipe
Required
The plaintiffs claim is [or set out a statement of claim in form 13] Dated .............................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 3 (rule 10 (3) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re [
State the person by whom, or the estate, or other entity in Respect of which the application is made.
] This is the petition of:
[name and address of each petitioner] Petitioner(s) Petition to the court Let all persons whose interests may be affected by the order sought Take notice:
The petitioner applies to this court for an order that [ State the relief sought and the rule or other enactment relied Upon
].
At the hearing of this petition will be read the affidavit(s) of [ State names ], copies of which are served herewith.
[next page] The facts upon which this petition is based are as follows: [ Set out briefly the relevant facts in numbered paragraphs ].
[next page] Notice to person(s) served:
Notice to:
[name and address of each person to be served] Respondent(s) Take notice that:
If you wish to be heard at the hearing of the petition or wish to be Notified of any further proceedings, you must give notice of your Intention by filing a form entitled "appearance" at the registry Within the time for appearance and you must also deliver a copy of The "appearance" to the petitioner's address for delivery, which is Set out in this petition.
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance". you may obtain a Form of "appearance" at the registry.
(1) The address of the registry is:
(3) The petitioner's address for delivery is:
Fax number for delivery:
(2) The name and office address of the petitioner's solicitor is:
(4) Signature:
..............................................................
Petitioner, or solicitor (5) Date petition is signed:
Time for appearance Where this petition is served on a person in british columbia, the Time for appearance by that person is 7 days from the service (not Including the day of service).
Where this writ is served on a person outside british columbia, the Time for appearance by that person, after service is 21 days in the Case of a person residing anywhere within canada, 28 days in the Case of a person residing in the united states of america, and 42 Days in the case of a person residing elsewhere. the court may Shorten the time for appearance on Ex parte Application.
Form 4 (rule 10 (12) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of hearing of petition To [
Person who has appeared ]:
Take notice that this petition will be heard by the presiding judge In chambers at the courthouse At
.........................................................................................................................
On ..........................[
Day
].........................................................................[ Month
]...............[ Year
] At the hour of ........................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
..............................................................
Petitioner [
Or petitioner's solicitor ] [indicate whether application will be of a time consuming or Contentious nature, In accordance with rule 52 (7).] Form 5 (rule 11 (12) ) Certificate of service by sheriff I, ........................................, certify that on the .......... day of ........................................, 19.........., at .................... o—clock in the ....................noon, i left a copy of this document At..................................................
.....................[ Specify place of service ]......................... with:
Dated at ........................................, this .................... day of ........................................, 19... .
...............................................................................
Sheriff or deputy sheriff Form 6 (rule 13 (2) ) Endorsement on originating process For service ex juris The plaintiff claims the right to serve this writ [ Or as the case may be ] on the defendant ....................................................................
Outside british columbia on the ground that [ State ground and provision in rule 13 (1) upon which the plaintiff Relies.
] Form 7 (rule 14 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Appearance
Enter an appearance on behalf of ..................................................................................
[ Defendant's name ] ..............................................................................................
[ Address
] ..............................................................................
[ Address for delivery ] Fax number for delivery:
Dated ..................................................
..............................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Notice to defendant entering the appearance Rule 21 (5) provides that where a defendant has entered an Appearance he or she shall file and deliver his or her statement of Defence within 14 days from the time limited for appearance or from The delivery of the statement of claim, whichever is the later.
The statement of claim may be endorsed on the writ of summons or it May be a document separate from the writ of summons.
If you fail to file and deliver the statement of defence within the Time allowed, judgment may be taken against you without further Notice.
Form 8 (rule 14 (1) ) Appearance
Enter an appearance on behalf of .........................................................................................
[ Respondent's name ] ........................................................................................................
[ Address
] ........................................................................................
[ Address for delivery ] Fax number for delivery:
............................................................................................
Respondent [
Or respondent's solicitor ] Form 9 (rule 11(9) ) Fax cover memo [style of proceeding] To: name of party And to: name and address of party's solicitor From: name and address of sender Number of pages transmitted including fax cover memo:
Telephone number from which document transmitted:
Name and telephone number of person to contact In the event of transmission problems:
Form 10 (rule 16 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of appointment or change of solicitor Take notice that ....................[ Name of new solicitor ].................... has been appointed to act as the solicitor for The ....................[
Plaintiff or defendant as the case may be ].................... in place of ..................................................................[ Name of former solicitor, or, if the party was previously acting Personally, omit reference to previous solicitor ].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
New solicitor Office address of new solicitor:
Party's address for delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
Form 11 (rule 16 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of intention to act in person Take notice that i now intend to act personally in this proceeding In place Of..................................................................[
Name of solicitor ].................... .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party
My address for delivery is:
Fax number for delivery:
Form 12 (rule 16 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of change of address for delivery Take notice that the address for delivery of ...........................................................................................................................
Is now changed to:
Fax number for delivery:
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 13 (rule 20 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Statement of claim [ Set out allegations of fact in numbered paragraphs ] 1. . .
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
The plaintiff claims as follows:
(a) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(b) .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
. .
Place of trial ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or plaintiff's solicitor ] Form 14 (rule 21 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Statement of defence The defendant denies [ Specify
].
The defendant says that [ Set out grounds of defence ].
Wherefore the defendant submits . . .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Form 15 (rule 21 (6) ) [style of proceeding] Counterclaim
[ Set out allegations of fact in numbered paragraphs ] 1.
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
2.
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
The defendant claims as follows:
(a) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(b) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Form 16 (rule 21 (11) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to defendant by counterclaim To [
Name and address of defendant by counterclaim ]:
This action has been brought by the plaintiff against the defendant.
The plaintiff's claim against the defendant is set out in the writ And statement of claim, copies of which are attached. the Defendant's defence is set out in his or her statement of defence, a Copy of which is also attached.
Take notice that the defendant .........................[ State name ]..... has filed a counterclaim, a copy of which is attached. in That counterclaim a claim is made against you.
If you intend to defend the claim made against you, or if you Yourself have a set off or counterclaim which you wish to have taken Into account at the trial.
You must give notice of your intention by filing a form entitled "appearance" in the registry at the address shown on the writ within The time for appearance provided for below, and you must also Deliver a copy of the "appearance" to the address for delivery of The defendant .....[ State name ]..... which is .............................................
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance". you may obtain a Form of "appearance" at the registry.
If you fail to file the "appearance" with the time limit judgment May be taken against you without further notice.
Time for appearance Where this notice and counterclaim are served in british columbia, The time for appearance by that person is 7 days from the service (not including the day of service).
Where this notice and counterclaim are served on a person outside British columbia, the time for appearance by that person, after Service, is 21 days in the case of a person residing anywhere within Canada, 28 days in the case of a person residing in the united States of america, and 42 days in the case of a person residing Elsewhere. the court may shorten the time for appearance on Ex parte Application.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Name and office address of defendant's solicitor:
Defendant's address for delivery:
Form 17 (rule 22 (1) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Between
, plaintiff(s) And
, defendant(s) And
, third party(ies) Third party notice To [
Name and address of third party ]:
This action has been brought by the plaintiff against the defendant.
The plaintiff's claim against the defendant is set out in the writ Of summons [ And, where applicable, the statement of claim ], a copy of which is attached. the defendant's defence is set out In his or her statement of defence, a copy of which is also Attached.
Take notice that the defendant claims against you [ State concisely the nature of the claim against the third party ].
If you intend to defend this claim against you, you must give notice Of your intention within .......... days after service of this third Party notice upon you (not including the day of service) by filing a Form entitled "appearance" in the above registry of this court and You must also deliver a copy of the "appearance" to the defendant's Address for delivery.
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance" at the registry. you May obtain a form of "appearance" at the registry.
If you fail to file the "appearance" within days, judgment may be Taken against you without further notice.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Name and office address of defendant's solicitor:
Defendant's address for delivery:
Form 18 (rule 23 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Reply
In reply to ................................................................................................................................................
[ Set out reply to the allegations in the statement of defence Requiring an answer ].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or plaintiff's solicitor ] Form 19 (rule 23 (4) ) [style of proceeding] Statement of defence to counterclaim The plaintiff denies [ Specify
].
The plaintiff says that [ Set out grounds for defence ].
Wherefore the plaintiff submits .................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or plaintiff's solicitor ] Form 20 (rule 27 (16) ) [style of proceeding] Appointment to examine for discovery To [
The person to be examined ]:
Take notice that you are required to attend for your examination for Discovery at the time, date, and place set out below. you are Required to bring with you all documents in your possession or power Relating to the matters in question in this action. please note the Provisions of the rules of court reproduced on the back of this Appointment.
Time
...................................................................................................
Date .................[
Day
].............[ Month
]...............[ Year
] ...................
Place
...................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] [ Back
] Rules 2 (5) and 56 (4) of the rules of court state in part:
"2 (5) where a person, contrary to these rules and without lawful Excuse,
(a) refuses or neglects to obey a subpoena or to attend at the time And place appointed for his or her examination for discovery, Then
(f) where the person is the plaintiff, petitioner, or a present Officer of a corporate plaintiff or petitioner, or a partner in or Manager of a partnership plaintiff or petitioner, the court may Dismiss the proceeding, and (g) where the person is the defendant, respondent or a third party Or a present officer of a corporate defendant, respondent or third Party, or a partner in or manager of a partnership defendant, Respondent or third party, the court may order the proceeding to Continue as if no appearance had been entered. . . .
56 (4) a person who is guilty of an act or omission described in Rule 2 (5), or rule 40 (19), in addition to being subject to any Consequences prescribed by those rules, is guilty of contempt of Court and subject to the court's power to punish contempt of court." Form 21 (rules 28 (5), 38 (3), 40 (34), 40 (39) ) [style of proceeding] Subpoena
To [
Name and address ]:
Take notice that you are required to attend to testify as a witness At the time, date, and place set out below. you are also required to Bring with you all documents in your possession or power relating to The matters in question in this proceeding [ And, where applicable, the following physical objects ]:
Please note the provisions of the rules of court reproduced on the Back of this subpoena.
Time
...................................................................................................
Date .................[
Day
].............[ Month
]...............[ Year
] ...................
Place
...................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] [ Back
] Rules 2 (5) and 56 (4) of the rules of court state in part:
"2 (5) where a person, contrary to these rules and without lawful Excuse,
(a) refuses or neglects to obey a subpoena or to attend at the time And place appointed for his or her examination for discovery, Then
(f) where the person is the plaintiff, petitioner, or a present Officer of a corporate plaintiff or petitioner, or a partner in or Manager of a partnership plaintiff or petitioner, the court may Dismiss the proceeding, and (g) where the person is the defendant, respondent or a third party Or a present officer of a corporate defendant, respondent or third Party, or a partner in or manager of a partnership defendant, Respondent or third party, the court may order the proceeding to Continue as if no appearance had been entered. . . .
56 (4) a person who is guilty of an act or omission described in Rule 2 (5), or rule 40 (19), in addition to being subject to any Consequences prescribed by those rules, is guilty of contempt of Court and subject to the court's power to punish contempt of court." Form 22 (rule 29 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Interrogatories
Interrogatories on behalf of ...........................................[ Party
]................ for the examination of .........................................................[ Person(s) required to answer ]..................:
[ Set out numbered questions to be answered specifying the person to Answer, if the questions are directed to more than one person.
] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 23 (rule 31 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to admit Take notice that ..................[ Party
].................. requests ..................[ Party
].................. to admit, for the purpose of this proceeding Only, the facts set out below and the authenticity of the documents Referred to below, copies of which are attached.
And take notice that, unless the court otherwise orders, if the Party to whom this notice is directed does not deliver a written Statement, as provided in rule 31 (2) within 14 days after delivery Of a copy of this notice to him or her, then the truth of the facts And the authenticity of the documents shall be deemed to be Admitted.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] The facts, the admission of which is requested are [ Set out facts, using a separate numbered paragraph for each fact Requested to be admitted ]:
The documents, the authenticity of which admission is requested, are [ List documents ]:
Form 24 (rules 32 (6), 57 (30) ) [style of proceeding] Appointment
I appoint:
Time
...................................................................................................
Date .................[
Day
].............[ Month
]...............[ Year
] ...................
Place
...................................................................................................
As the time and place for [ Set out matter to be dealt with ].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Master, registrar, special referee To [
Party
] Take notice of the above appointment.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor This matter will/will not be contentious and the estimated time Required is:
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor Form 25 (rule 32 (16 ) [style of proceeding] Notice of order To [
Name and address of each person to be served ]:
Take notice of the order of the honourable mr. justice Dated the .................. day of ..........................., 19..., a copy of which is attached.
You may apply to court within 28 days after service of this notice Upon you to discharge, vary, or add to the order.
Alternatively, you may file a form entitled "appearance" in the Above registry of this court and deliver a copy of the "appearance" To each of the following addresses for delivery [ Set out below ], following which you are entitled to take part in the proceeding Taken under the order.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor Name and address for delivery of each party:
Form 26 (rule 36 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of discontinuance Take notice that [ Where notice of trial has been given, add either "with the consent Of all parties of record" or "by leave of the court" ] the................................................
...................................................................................................
Discontinues this proceeding against .........................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor [ Note: if proceeding is only partially discontinued, modify this Form accordingly, indicating which portion of the proceeding is Discontinued.
] Form 27 (rule 36 (3) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of withdrawal Take notice that the defendant .........................................................................................................................................................
Withdraws his defence in this action.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] [ Note: if part only of the defence is withdrawn, modify this form Accordingly, indicating which part is withdrawn.
] Form 28 (rules 37 (7), 57 (21) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of payment in Take notice that .....[ Party
]..... has paid into court $.......... . this sum of money includes Prejudgment interest (if applicable) calculated to .....[ Date
]....., but not costs. [ Allocate amount paid in with respect to party for whom and the Claim or claims in respect of which the payment is made ].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 29 (rule 37 (8) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of acceptance of money paid in Take notice that ....[ Party
].... accepts the sum of $.......... paid by .....[ Party
]..... into court in satisfaction of the claim or claims in respect Of which it is paid in.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 30 (rule 37 (29) ) [style of proceeding] Declaration
Re application for payment out of infants— funds I, .........................................[
Present name in full ]...................., of ........................[ Address
]...................., do solemnly declare:
1. that i am the person for whom funds are held in court and i am The same person as ........................................ named in The order of ........................................ made on .............................. .
2. that i attained the full age of 19 years on ..........[ Date
]......... and submitted herewith is a copy of my birth certificate [ Or
] my birth certificate for examination by the registry.
3. that i am entitled to payment of the funds.
4. that my name has been changed from that shown on the original Court order. proof is attached.
And i make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing it to Be true, and knowing that it is of the same force and effect as if Made under oath and by virtue of the Canada evidence act .
Declared before me at ..........................................................................................................., This .......... day of ..........................................................................., 19... .
............................................................
Signature of applicant ............................................................................
Commissioner for taking affidavits If cheque is to be mailed to other than above address, state here:
Authorization for payment out [ To be completed by the registry ] Original name [ If changed ] .........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Registry
.............................................................................................................
Proceeding
No...............................................................................................
Date paid into court .............................................................................................
Treasury no.
...............................................................................................
Amount (including accrued interest) $..................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Signing officer Form 31 (rule 38 (6) ) [style of proceeding] Order for examination of persons Outside the jurisdiction Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
The application of ........................................, coming On before me on .............................., and upon hearing ........................................, counsel for the applicant, And ........................................, counsel for ..................................................:
This court orders that .............................., of .............................., is appointed an examiner for the Purpose of taking the examination, cross-examination, and Re-examination orally, on oath or affirmation, of .............................., of .............................., And .............................., of ..........[ Persons to be examined on the part of the (party) ].........., and of any other persons as the solicitors or agents of The parties shall mutually request the examiner in writing to Examine, at .............................. in .....[ Name of the province, state, or county ]......:
And further orders that the solicitor for the applicant give to the Solicitor of each of the other parties .......... days notice in Writing of the date on which the solicitor proposes to send this Order to the examiner for execution, and that .......... days after Delivery of the notice the solicitors for the parties respectively Exchange the names of their solicitors or agents at .............................., to whom notice relating to the Examination of the persons may be sent:
And further orders that .......... days notice (exclusive of Saturday and sunday) before the examination of any person shall be Given by the examiner to the solicitor or agent of each of the Parties and to each person to be examined unless the notice is Waived:
And further orders that the examination be conducted in accordance With the enclosed instructions, with such modifications as may be Necessary:
And further orders that the depositions, together with any document Referred to in them, or certified copy of or extract from the Document be sent forthwith by the examiner to the registrar of the Supreme court of british columbia at the courthouse at ........................................, who shall deliver the Depositions and documents to the applicants and provide copies to Any party on request.
By the court.
............................................................................
Registrar
Form 32 (rule 38 (6) ) [style of proceeding] Instructions to examiner To [
Name and address ]:
You have been appointed examiner to take the evidence upon oath of ................................. . a copy of the order appointing You is attached. the law of british columbia will apply to the Taking of this evidence.
The party wishing to examine ...................................
Before you is required to serve [him or her] with a subpoena and Tender the proper fees not less than .................... days Before the date you fix for the examination.
The witness and any interpreter will be sworn in accordance with the Forms of oath set out below.
After the examination has been held and the evidence transcribed and The transcript certified by you as correct, you are to send the Deposition and other documents by registered mail to the registrar, Courthouse .....[
Address
]..... .
Oath (or affirmation) of witness Do you swear that the evidence that you will give in these Proceedings shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the Truth, so help you god?
[or] Do you affirm that the evidence that you will give in these Proceedings shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the Truth?
Interpreter's oath Will you truly, faithfully, and without partiality to any party in This proceeding, and to the best of your ability, interpret and Translate any oath or affirmation that will be administered and all Questions that may be asked of any witness and his or her answers, So help you god?
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 33 (rule 38 (7) ) [style of proceeding] Order for issue of a letter of request to Judicial authority of another jurisdiction Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
Upon the application of .............................., coming on Before me on ...................., and upon hearing .............................., of counsel for the applicant and .............................., of counsel for ..............................:
This court orders that the attached letter of request be issued:
And further orders that the registrar, on receipt of the deposition Taken pursuant thereto, shall deliver them to the applicant and Provide copies to any party on request.
By the court.
....................................................................................
Registrar
Form 34 (rule 38 (7) ) [style of proceeding] Letter of request for examination Of witness out of jurisdiction To the judicial authority of .............................................................. in The ......................................................... of ...........................................................................
.
Whereas this proceeding is now pending in the supreme court of British columbia in which the plaintiff claims ......................................................................................:
And whereas it appears to me that it is necessary for the purposes Of justice and for the due determination of the matters in question Between the parties that the following persons should be examined Upon oath or affirmation relating to those matters, namely .............................., of .............................., And .............................., of .............................., and such other persons as the Solicitors or agents of the parties shall mutually request you in Writing to examine, and it appears that persons are residents within Your jurisdiction:
Now i, .............................., a judge of the supreme court Of british columbia, hereby request that, for the assistance of the Court, you will be pleased to summon the solicitors or agents of the Parties and the witnesses to be examined, to attend at such time and Place as you shall appoint, either before you or such other person As according to your procedure is competent to take the deposition Examination of witnesses, and that you will cause the witnesses to Be examined orally or by interrogatories relating to the matters in Question, in the presence of the solicitors or agents of the parties Or such of them as shall, on due notice given, attend the Examination:
And i further request that you permit the solicitor or agent of any Party present to examine any witness called by the solicitor or Agent and the solicitor or agent of any opposing party to Cross-examine the witness and the solicitor or agent of the party Calling the witness to re-examine the witness:
And i further request that you will be pleased to cause the evidence Of each witness to be recorded verbatim, and any document produced On the examination to be marked for identification, and that you Will be further pleased to authenticate the depositions taken on the Examination and any document, or certified copy of the same or any Extract therefrom by the seal of your tribunal or in such other way As is in accordance with your procedure, and to return the same, Together with any interrogatories and a note of the charges and Expenses payable in respect of the execution of this request to the Under secretary of state for external affairs of canada at ottawa, Canada [
Or, if the judicial authority to whom the letter is addressed is In canada, to the deputy attorney general for the province of British columbia, parliament buildings, victoria, british columbia ], for transmission to the registrar of the supreme court of british Columbia at the courthouse at ...............................................................................................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
A judge of the supreme court Of british columbia Form 35 (rule 39 (2) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of trial Take notice that the trial of this proceeding has been set down for Hearing at the courthouse At
......................................................................................................................................
On ............................................[
Day
] .........................................[ Month
] ................[ Year
] At the hour Of.....................................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 36 (rule 39 (11) and (14) ) [style of proceeding] Certificate of readiness I, .......................................... [
Or solicitor for ], the plaintiff [ Or defendant ], certify:
1. it has been agreed by the solicitors of record in this action That not more than .............. is a reasonable time for the Hearing of all evidence and argument in this action.
[ Or
] 1. the solicitors of record in this action are not in agreement as To their estimate of a reasonable time for the hearing of all Evidence and argument in this action. the estimates of each Solicitor of record are as follows:
2. if the action is settled before trial, i will give the district Registrar prompt notice of the settlement.
3. i will give the district registrar prompt notice of any proposed Adjournment of the trial.
4. i undertake to pay all hearing fees payable under appendix c, Schedule 1, item 8.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 37 (rule 39 (19) ) [style of proceeding] Trial certificate I, .............................[
Or solicitor for ], the plaintiff [ Or defendant ], certify:
1. i will be ready to proceed on the scheduled trial date ........................[ State date trial is scheduled to commence ].
2. my current estimate is that the trial will last .................... days.
3. i have (a) delivered a notice to admit facts under rule 31 (7), (b) delivered all expert witness reports, and (c) completed all examinations for discovery.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 38 (rule 39 (26) ) [style of proceeding] Notice requiring trial by jury Take notice that the [ Party
] requires the trial of this proceeding to be by a judge with a Jury.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 39 (rule 40 (12) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to produce To [
Other party ]:
Take notice that [party] requires you to produce at the trial of This action [ Or at the deposition examination of .............................] all documents in your possession or Power relating to the matters in question [ And, where applicable, the following physical objects ]:
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 40 (rule 40 (17) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of intention to call Adverse party as a witness To [
Name and address ]:
Take notice that .....[ Party
]..... requires you to appear at the trial of this action at .....[ Time
]..... on ..........day, the ..... day of .........., 19.... ,at .....[ Place of trial ]..... for the purpose of being called as a witness under rule 40 (17).
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 41 (rule 40 (4) ) [style of proceeding] Warrant
To any peace officer:
Whereas ....................[
Name and address of person ].................... was subpoenaed to give evidence at the trial Of this proceeding and failed to attend [ Or failed to remain in attendance ].
This court orders you to apprehend and bring him or her forthwith Before the court at ...........................................................................
And thereafter deal with him or her as directed.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
A judge of the supreme court British columbia Form 42 (rule 41 (9) ) [style of proceeding] Order
Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
This action coming on for trial at ...................., on the ............... day of ..............., 19...., and on hearing ...................., counsel for the plaintiff, and ..................., counsel for the defendant:
And judgment being reserved to this date:
This court orders that By the court.
................................................................
Registrar
Form 43 (rule 41 (9) ) [style of proceeding] Order
Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
This application of .............................., coming on for Hearing at ...................., on .................................., and on hearing ...................., counsel for ...................., and ..................., counsel for ....................:
This court orders that By the court.
.............................................................................
Registrar
Form 44 (rule 41 (19) ) [style of proceeding] Appointment to settle I appoint Time
...................................................................................................
Date .................[
Day
].............[ Month
]...............[ Year
] ...................
Place
...................................................................................................
As the time and place for the settlement of the terms of the order Of .............................., pronounced on the .......... day Of ...................., 19..., in this proceeding.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
To [
Party
] Take notice of the above appointment.
..................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] [ Note: draft order to be attached to this appointment.
] Form 45 (rule 42 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Writ of seizure and sale To the sheriff:
You are commanded forthwith to seize and sell at public auction or By tender for the best available price sufficient of the goods and Chattels of the undermentioned person to realize the sums set out on The back of this writ, which are payable by virtue of the attached Order of this honourable court, together with your costs, fees, and Expenses for executing this writ.
After carrying out the above instructions you shall pay to the Person specified on the back of this writ from the amount realized The sum or sums that are payable to him or her and account therefor By return to the court.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Name and address of solicitor or person causing this writ to be Issued:
[ Back
] Name and address of person whose goods and chattels are to be Seized:
Amount remaining due and payable on judgment:
Amount of costs remaining due and payable:
Amount of interest on judgment and costs remaining due and payable:
Costs of party entitled to execution:
Sheriffs costs [ To be filled in by sheriff ]:
Total [
To be filled in by sheriff ]:
Identity of person entitled to payment of judgment:
Form 46 (rule 42 (2) and (4) ) [style of proceeding] Writ of sequestration To the sheriff:
You are authorized and commanded to enter upon and take possession Of all the real and personal estate of .............................. and to collect and receive the rents And profits of his or her real and personal estate and keep the same Under sequestration in your hands until .............................. shall satisfy you that that person Has complied with the attached order and has paid the costs, fees, And expenses of execution of the person entitled to execution and The costs, fees, and expenses for executing this writ.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 47 (rule 42 (3) ) [style of proceeding] Writ of possession To the sheriff:
Whereas it was on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., Ordered that the defendant, .............................. deliver To the plaintiff, ..............................[ Or the plaintiff, .............................., recover from the Defendant, ..............................
], possession of [..............................
Set out street address, municipality, province, or legal Description of land, if available ]:
You are commanded forthwith to enter the land and cause .............................. to have possession of it:
And you are also commanded forthwith to seize and sell at public Auction or tender for the best price available sufficient of the Goods and chattels of .............................. to realize the Plaintiff's costs, fees and expenses of execution and the costs, Fees, and expenses for executing this writ.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 48 (rule 42 (4) ) [style of proceeding] Writ of delivery To the sheriff:
Whereas it was, on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., ordered that the defendant, ....................................................................................., Deliver to the Plaintiff,..........................................................,
The following goods [ Describe the goods ]:
You are commanded forthwith to cause the goods to be delivered to:
And you are also commanded forthwith to seize and sell at public Auction or tender for the best price available sufficient of the Goods and chattels of ............................................................... to Realize the plaintiff's costs, fees, and expenses of execution and The costs, fees, and expenses for executing this writ.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 49 (rule 42 (4) ) [style of proceeding] Writ of delivery or assessed value To the sheriff:
Whereas it was, on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., ordered that the defendant, .............................., Deliver to the plaintiff, .............................., the Following goods [ Describe the goods ]:
You are commanded forthwith to cause the goods to be delivered to:
And you are also commanded forthwith to seize and sell at public Auction or tender for the best price available sufficient of the Goods and chattels of .............................. to realize the Plaintiff's costs, fees, and expenses of execution and the costs, Fees, and expenses for executing this writ.
If the goods which you are to have delivered to .............................. cannot be found within the province, Then you are commanded to realize, in addition to any other sums Referred to in this writ, from the goods and chattels of .............................., the sum of $...................., Together with your costs, fees, and expenses of so doing and pay the Sum to the plaintiff together with the plaintiff's costs, fees, and Expenses of execution.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 50 (rule 42 (19) ) [style of proceeding] Acknowledgment of payment I acknowledge payment of $.................... in full [ Partial
] satisfaction of the judgment dated the .......... day of ...................., 19.... .
Signed this .......... day of....................,19..., in the Presence of .......................................................................................................................................................................................................[name] ....................................................................................................................................................................................................[address] ................................................................................................................................................................................................[occupation] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party receiving payment Form 51 (rule 42 (23) ) [style of proceeding] Subpoena to debtor To [
Name and address of person ]:
Take notice that the amount set out in the endorsement below is now Owing by the debtor ....................[ Name
].................... on the order dated .............................., a copy of which is attached.
You are required to appear personally at the courthouse at ....................[ Address
].................... at ..........[ Time
].......... on the ....................[ Date
].................... to be examined on oath as to (a) the income and property of the debtor, (b) the debts owed to and by the debtor, (c) the disposal the debtor has made of any property, and (d) the means the debtor has, or has had, or in future may have of Satisfying the order:
And take notice that if you fail to attend as required by this Subpoena, an application may be made for your arrest and Imprisonment without any further notice or any document other than This subpoena being given to you.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Creditor [
Or creditor-solicitor ] Address of creditor or creditor's solicitor:
[ Back
] Endorsement of amount available [ Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or Instalment owing, the costs incurred on the order and of Proceedings subsequent to the order, the amounts paid and dates of Payment, the interest owing and how computed.
] Subtotal
$...............
Add
Sheriff's costs of service ( To be endorsed by ...............
Officer serving at the time of service ) Total amount payable $...............
If the total amount payable is paid to the creditor or into court For the account of the creditor before the date of the hearing, you Are excused from attending.
Warning: failure to attend at the hearing of this subpoena can Result in your arrest and committal to prison without delivery to You of any further notice or document.
Form 52 (rule 42 (34) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of motion for committal To [
Name of person ]:
Whereas on ....................[ Date
].................... the creditor ....................[ Name
].................... obtained against the debtor ....................[ Name
].................... an order to pay ....................[ Set out terms of order ]...................., and the creditor alleges that the debtor has Failed or neglected to make payment in accordance with the order, And that you knew of the order:
Take notice that an application will be made by the creditor at the Courthouse at ....................[ Address
].................... at ..........[ Time
].......... on the....................[ Date
].................... for an order committing you to prison:
And take notice that in support of the application will be read . .
.
And take notice that if you fail to attend you may be committed to Prison without further notice.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Creditor [
Or creditor's solicitor ] Address of creditor or creditor's solicitor:
[ Back
] [ Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or Instalment owing, the costs incurred on the order and of Proceedings subsequent to the order, the amounts paid and dates of Payment, the interest owing and how computed.
] Subtotal
$...............
Add
Sheriff's costs of service ( To be endorsed by ...............
Officer serving at the time of service ) Total amount payable $...............
If the total amount payable is paid to the creditor or into court For the account of the creditor before the date of the hearing, you Are excused from attending.
Warning: failure to attend at the hearing of this application can Result in your arrest and committal to prison without delivery to You of any further notice or document.
Form 53 (rule 42 (36) ) [style of proceeding] Order of committal Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
This court orders that by reason of .....[ Here set out grounds of committal ..... .....[ Person committed ]..... be committed to prison for .......... days:
And further orders the sheriff and all peace officers to arrest .....[ Person to be committed ]..... and to bring him or her forthwith before this court at .....[ Place
]..... and, unless otherwise ordered, to deliver him or her to the Warden of .....[ Name of prison ]..... .
And further orders the warden to receive .....[ Person to be committed ]..... and to keep him or her for .......... days from his or her Arrest under this order or until he or she shall be sooner Discharged by due process of law.
By the court.
.................................................
Registrar
This order is in force for one year only from the date of the order.
[ Back
] Endorsement of amount payable [ Set out, in the form of an account, the amount of the debt or Instalment owing, The costs incurred on the order and of proceedings subsequent to The order, The amounts paid and dates of payment, the interest owing and how Computed.
] Subtotal
$...............
Add
Sheriff's costs of service ( To be endorsed by ...............
Officer serving at the time of service ) 2. maintenance money ( To be endorsed by ...............
Warden at the time payment is tendered ) Total amount payable $...............
If the total amount payable is paid to the registrar, or to the Sheriff or peace officer or warden who has you in his or her Custody, then this order will be discharged.
Form 54 (rule 43 (6) ) [style of proceeding] Certificate of result of sale Property sold Name of Purchaser
Price
Amount received Date of sale Totals
...............
...............
I .............................., of .............................., ..........[ Occupation
].........., make oath and say as follows:
1. that i did, in accordance with the provisions of the order of This court dated the .......... day of ...................., 19..., Sell by auction [ Or as the case may be ] the property described in the certificate on the day shown in the Certificate.
2. that the result of the sale is truly set forth in the Certificate.
Sworn, etc.
.................................................
Person conducting sale Form 55 (rule 44 (3) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of motion To [
Party
]:
Take notice that an application will be made by ................................ to the presiding judge or master at The courthouse at .............[ Address
].......... at .....[ Time
]..... on the .....[ Date
]..... for an order that ................, pursuant to [ Specify rule or other enactment relied upon ]:
And take notice that in support of the application will be read . .
.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] [ Indicate whether application will be of a time consuming or Contentious nature, In accordance with rule 52 (7).
] Form 56 (rule 41 (16) ) [note: formerly form 83al] [style of proceeding] Consent order The .......... day of ...................., 19.... ..
Whereas
(a) all parties have consented to this order, and (b) no person involved is under any legal disability; This court orders that the within proceedings be dismissed without Costs [
Or as the case may be ].
.................................................
District registrar Form 57 (rule 47 (2) ) [style of proceeding] Security for receiver Date of this guarantee ...............[ Day
]...............[ Month
]..............[ Year
].................
Name and address of receiver .........................[ Address
]........................................
Name and registered office of surety ..............................[ Registered office ]...............
Liability of surety under this guarantee ...............
$...............
Annual premium ...............................................
$...............
This guarantee is made between the receiver, the surety, and her Majesty the queen in right of british columbia.
1. the receiver and the surety hereby jointly and severally covenant With her majesty the queen in right of british columbia that the Receiver will, from time to time, duly account for what the receiver Has already received since the date of the order appointing the Receiver and shall hereafter receive or for what since the date of The order the receiver has or shall hereafter become liable to pay Or account for as receiver [ And manager ] and will pay every sum of money and deliver every property that The court may direct.
2. if the receiver shall not, for every successive 12 months Computed from the date of the receiver's appointment, pay at the Office of the surety the annual premium noted above, then the surety Shall be at liberty to apply to be relieved from all further Liability under this guarantee, except in respect of any damage or Loss occasioned by any act or default of the receiver in relation to The receiver's duties as receiver [ And manager ] prior to the hearing and determination of the application.
3. a statement under the hand of the registrar of the amount which The receiver is liable to pay and has not paid under paragraph 1 and That the loss or damage has been incurred through the act or default Of the receiver shall be conclusive evidence in any action by her Majesty against the receiver and surety, or either of them, or by The surety against the receiver, of the truth of the contents of the Statement and shall constitute a binding charge not only against the Receiver and the receiver's personal representatives, but also Against the surety and its funds and property without it being Necessary for her majesty to take any proceedings against the surety And the surety's funds and property and without it being necessary For her majesty to take any proceedings against the receiver for the Recovery thereof and without any further or other proof being given In that behalf in any action to enforce this guarantee.
4. the liability of the surety under this guarantee is limited to The sum noted above, provided that the registrar may give his or her Approval in writing to the reduction of the liability of the surety, In which event the surety's maximum liability with respect to any Acts or omissions of the receiver subsequent to the date of the Approval is reduced accordingly and provided further that an Endorsement executed by the surety increasing the liability of the Surety shall be binding on the surety with respect to any acts or Omissions of the receiver subsequent to the date of that Endorsement.
5. the receiver will, on being discharged from office or on ceasing To act as receiver [ And manager ], forthwith give written notice thereof to the surety, and also Within 7 days of the notice give the surety a copy of any order Discharging the receiver.
6. the receiver and the receiver's personal representatives will at All times hereafter indemnify the surety against all loss, damage, Costs, and expenses which the surety sustains by reason of the Surety having executed this guarantee.
In witness whereof, the receiver has hereunder set his or her hand And seal and the surety has caused its common seal to be affixed the .......... day of .................., 19... .
Surety ...........................[seal] Receiver ..........................[seal] Dated ..................................................
Approved ..................................................
Registrar
Endorsement to guarantee no.
The liability of the surety under this guarantee has been increased From $.................. to $.................., effective ........................... with respect to any acts or omissions of The receiver subsequent to that date.
Surety ...........................[seal] Form 58 (rule 47 (2) ) [style of proceeding] Security of receiver by undertaking I, .............................., of .............................., in the .............................. of .............................., The receiver [ And manager ] appointed by order made the .......... day of ...................., 19..., by the honourable mr. justice ................................... in this proceeding, hereby Undertake to the court duly to account for all money and property Received by me as receiver [ And manager ] or for which i may be held liable, and to pay the balance from Time to time found due from me and to deliver any property received By me as receiver [ And manager ] at such times and in such manner as the court directs.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Receiver [
Manager
] And we ..............................[ Names and addresses of sureties ].............................. hereby jointly and severally Undertake to the court to be answerable for any default By....................[
Name of receiver ].................... as receiver [ And manager ] and upon such default to pay as the court directs any amounts not Exceeding in the whole $.................... that may from time to Time be certified by the registrar to be due from the receiver, and We submit to the jurisdiction of the court to determine any claim Made under this undertaking.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Surety
...............................................................
Surety
Approved
.......................................................................
Registrar
Endorsement to security The liability of the surety under this guarantee has been increased From $.................... to $...................., effective .............................. with respect to any acts or omissions Of the receiver subsequent to that date.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Surety
Form 59 (rule 49 (2) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Between
Appellant
And
Respondent [
Person or body appealed from ] Notice of appeal Whereas on the .......... day of ....................,19..., ....................[ State name of person or body from whose decision appeal is brought ].................... made the following decision [ Or direction or order as the case may be ]: [ State concisely the decision, direction, or order ]:
And whereas an appeal lies to this court [ Or a judge of this court as the case may be ] pursuant to...................[ Set out section of enactment allowing appeal ]....................:
Take notice that ....................[ Name and address of appellant ].................... hereby appeals from the decision [ Direction or order ] on the following grounds [ Set out concisely grounds of appeal ]:
And take notice that on ..........day, the .......... day of ....................,19..., at the courthouse at ....................[ Place
].................... an application will be made to the presiding Judge in chambers at ..........[ Time
].......... for directions as to the conduct of the appeal [ Or as the case may be ].
The appellant's address for delivery of documents is:
Fax number for delivery:
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To [
The person or body appealed from ] And to [ All other persons who may be affected ] Form 60 (rule 51 (5) ) [style of proceeding] Endorsement of interpreter I, ..... [
Name, address, and occupation ]......, certify:
1. that i have a knowledge of the english and ...................................... languages and i am competent To interpret from one to the other.
2. that i am advised by the deponent and verily believe that the Deponent understands the ........................... language.
3. that before the affidavit on which this endorsement is made was Sworn by the deponent i correctly interpreted it for the deponent From the english language into the .................... language and The deponent appeared to fully understand the contents.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Interpreter
Form 61 (rule 53 (5) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of appeal from master or registrar Whereas on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., ..........[ Identify registrar ].......... made the following decision [ Or order ]....................[ State concisely the decision or order ]....................:
Take notice that [ The plaintiff or as the case may be ] appeals from that decision [ Or order ] on the following grounds ..........[ Set out concisely the grounds of appeal ]..........:
This appeal will be heard at..........[ Time
].......... on ..........[ Date
].......... at the courthouse at .............................. by The presiding judge in chambers.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 62 (rule 54 (5) ) [style of proceeding] Order granting leave to register foreign judgment (court order enforcement act, part 2) Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
Upon the application of .......................................
Coming on before me on ..................................... and Upon hearing ................................, counsel for the Applicant, and ...................................................., Counsel for ..................................................................
This court orders that the judgment dated the .......... day of ....................,19..., of ............[ Name of court ]............ whereby it was adjudged that ............[ Name and address of judgment creditor ............] recover from ............[ Judgment debtor ]............ the sum of $............ for debt [ Or as the case may be ] and $............ for costs, be registered in this court.
[ Add if order obtained ex parte.
] This court further orders that the .......[ Judgment debtor ]........ may apply to set aside the registration within one month After he or she has notice of it.
By the court.
..............................................................
Registrar
Form 63 (rules 56 (5), 56 (6) ) In the supreme court of british columbia Warrant
To any peace officer:
Whereas this court is of the opinion that .......... [ Name and address of person or corporation ].......... may be guilty of contempt of court:
You are hereby ordered to apprehend ..........[ Name and address of person or director, officer, or employee of Corporation
].......... and bring him or her forthwith before the court at the Courthouse at ........................., and thereafter deal with Him or her as directed.
Dated at .............................. the .......... day Of....................,19... .
...........................................................................
A
Judge of the supreme court Of british columbia Form 64 (rule 57 (20) ) [style of proceeding] Offer to settle Take notice that the plaintiff .............................. offers To accept $..........., and costs to be assessed, in satisfaction of The plaintiff's claim for .........[ Specify the claim or part of the claim in respect of which the Offer to settle is made ]...................... .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 65 (rule 57 (20) ) [style of proceeding] Revocation
Take notice that the plaintiff revokes the plaintiff's offer to Settle dated the ........... day of .............,19.... .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] Form 66 (rule 57 (24) ) [style of proceeding] Consent to judgment An offer to settle having been made by the plaintiff .................................. pursuant to rule 57 (20) (a), the Defendant .................................. consents to judgment Being entered against the defendant in the sum of $................,[ Add, where applicable, and costs to be assessed ] in respect of the plaintiff's claim for .....[ Specify the claim or part of claim in respect of which judgment is Consented to ]...... .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Defendant [
Or defendant's solicitor ] Form 67 (rule 57 (28) ) [style of proceeding] Bill of costs of .................................
Tariff scale ........................; unit value $.............................
Item
Description
Number of units Claimed:
Allowed:
Total number of units .......................
.......................
Multiply by unit value  x $..................  x $..................
Total
$..................
$..................
Disbursements:
Description:
Amount claimed:
Amount allowed:
.......................
.......................
Total
$..................
$..................
Total fees and disbursements allowed:
$..................
Date of assessment: .......................................
Signature of assessing officer:
..............................................
Form 68 (rule 57 (32 ) [style of proceeding] Certificate of costs I certify that on.......[ Date
]....., the costs of the ...........[ Description of party ]............. ...........[ Name of party ]............, have been assessed, and the amount payable by the ...........[ Description of party ]............. ...........[ Name of party ]............. is allowed at $.......... .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
[this certificate may be set out in a separate document or be Endorsed upon the bill of costs.] Form 69 (rule 61 (3) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re: estate of ................................................................, Deceased
Affidavit of executor I, .....(name and address of applicant)....., make oath and say That:
1. ......................................................., late of .............[ Street address and city ].............. in the province of british columbia ............[ Occupation
]........ died on the ........ day of ............................ , 19....., at ........................ in the province of british Columbia.
2. i believe exhibit a to this affidavit to be the deceased's Original last will which is dated the ........... day Of..................., 19.... , [
And exhibit(s) a-1 (and a-2, etc.) to be the codicil(s) to it Dated the......... day of.................., 19....., etc., Respectively)
].
3. i am ............................................. executor(s) Named in the will. (my appointment has not been revoked under Section 16 of the Wills act By reason of a decree of judicial separation, divorce, or nullity Granted after the date of the will in respect of a marriage of the Deceased.) [
If any executors named in the will are not applying, explain why.] 4. to the best of my knowledge the deceased did/did not marry or Remarry after the date of the will.
5. to the best of my knowledge the will is/is not witnessed by a Person to whom, or to whose then wife or husband, a beneficial Devise, bequest or other disposition or appointment is given or Made.
6. i have made a diligent search and inquiry to ascertain the assets And liabilities of the deceased.
7. the statement marked exhibit b to this affidavit discloses the Assets and liabilities of the deceased, irrespective of their Nature, location or value, which pass to the deceased's personal Representative, together with the names and addresses of the Beneficiaries, their relationship to the deceased and the property Passing to them.
8. i will disclose forthwith to the court the existence of any asset Or liability which has not been disclosed in exhibit b hereto when i Learn of the same.
9. i will administer according to law all of the estate which by law Devolves to and vests in the personal representative of the deceased And i will exhibit a true and perfect inventory of the estate and Render a just and true account thereof whenever required by law to Do so.
Sworn, etc.
Estate of........................................................., Deceased
Assets, liabilities and distribution Part i Real property (including mortgages and vendors and Purchasers interests in agreements for sale) Within or without British columbia Value at death Total
Part ii personal property (all assets except real property) Within or without british columbia Value at death Total
Gross value of estate Part iii debts and liabilities Paid or unpaid Amount
Total
Safety deposit box no.
Location:
Part iv distribution of estate Name
Relationship
Property passing This is exhibit b referred to in the affidavit Of .................................. sworn before me at ....................................... this ......... day of .................................................... 19...... .
..................................................
A
Commissioner for taking affidavits Within british columbia Form 70 (rule 61 (3) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re: estate of ................................................................, Deceased
Affidavit of administrator I, .....(name and address of applicant)....., make oath and say That:
1. ......................................................., late of .............[ Street address and city ].............. in the province of british columbia ............[ Occupation
]....... died on the ........ day of ............................, 19..... at ........................ in the province of british Columbia.
2. i have made a careful search and believe the deceased died Without having left any will, codicil or testamentary document.
3. the deceased was survived by .....( Identify the applicant and any other person entitled to inherit Under sections 95 to 102 of the estate administration act, clear Off any person who has a prior or equal right to apply for the Grant and refer to all renunciations or consents filed )..... .
4. i have made a diligent search and inquiry to ascertain the assets And liabilities of the deceased.
5. the statement marked exhibit a to this affidavit discloses the Assets and liabilities of the deceased, irrespective of their Nature, location or value, which pass to the deceased's personal Representative, together with the names and addresses of the Beneficiaries, their relationship to the deceased and the property Passing to them.
6. i believe there are no debts or liabilities for which the estate Is or may be liable except as disclosed in exhibit a all of which Have been paid [except ...................( State whether any consent in writing has been given )].
7. i will disclose forthwith to the court the existence of any asset Or liability which has not been disclosed in exhibit a hereto when i Learn of the same.
8. i will administer according to law all the estate which by law Devolves to and vests in the personal representative of the deceased And i will exhibit a true and perfect inventory of the estate and Render a just and true account thereof whenever required by law to Do so.
Sworn, etc.
Estate of .......................................................
Deceased
Assets, liabilities and distribution Part i Real property (including mortgages and vendors and Purchasers interests in agreements for sale) Within or without British columbia Value at death Total
Part ii personal property (all assets except real property) Within or without british columbia Value at death Total
Gross value of estate Part iii debts and liabilities Paid or unpaid Amount
Total
Safety deposit box no.
Location:
Part iv distribution of estate Name
Relationship
Property passing This is exhibit a referred to in the affidavit Of .................................. sworn before me at ....................................... this ......... day of .................................................... 19...... .
..................................................
A commissioner for taking affidavits Within british columbia Form 71 (rule 61 (3) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re: estate of ................................................................, Deceased
Affidavit of administrator applying for letters Of administration with will annexed I, .....(
Name and address of applicant )....., make oath and say that:
1. ......................................................., late of .............[ Street address and city ].............. in the province of british columbia ............[ Occupation
]........ died on the ........ day of ............................, 19..... at ........................ in the province of british Columbia.
2. i believe exhibit a to this affidavit to be the deceased's Original last will which is dated the ........... day Of..................., 19...., [
And exhibit(s) a-1 (and a-2, etc.) to be the codicil(s) to it Dated the ......... day of .................., 19.....
, ( And the .......... day of ...................., 19..., etc., Respectively)
].
3. there is no executor named in the will. [ Or, set out the reason no person is presently entitled and willing To act as executor of the will, e.g., executor named has Predeceased, renounced, etc.
] 4. i am .......... [ Identify the applicant's entitlement to the grant, e.g., one of The residuary beneficiaries, etc.
].......... and the renunciation or consent of all persons having a Prior or equal right to apply for the grant or entitled to share in The estate are filed herewith, as follows ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
5. to the best of my knowledge the deceased did/did not marry or Remarry after the date of the will.
6. to the best of my knowledge the will is/is not witnessed by a Person to whom, or to whose then wife or husband, a beneficial Devise, bequest or other disposition or appointment is given or Made.
7. i have made a diligent search and inquiry to ascertain the assets And liabilities of the deceased.
8. the statement marked exhibit b to this affidavit discloses the Assets and liabilities of the deceased, irrespective of their Nature, location or value, which pass to the deceased's personal Representative, together with the names and addresses of the Beneficiaries, their relationship to the deceased and the property Passing to them.
9. i believe there are no debts or liabilities for which the estate Is or may be liable except as disclosed in exhibit b all of which Have been paid [ Except .....................(state whether any consent in writing Has been given)....................
].
10. i will disclose forthwith to the court the existence of any Asset or liability which has not been disclosed in exhibit b hereto When i learn of the same.
11. i will administer according to law all the estate which by law Devolves to and vests in the personal representative of the deceased And i will exhibit a true and perfect inventory of the estate and Render a just and true account thereof whenever required by law to Do so.
Sworn, etc.
Estate of ........................................................., Deceased
Assets, liabilities and distribution Part i Real property (including mortgages and vendors and Purchasers interests in agreements for sale) Within or without British columbia Value at death Total
Part ii personal property (all assets except real property) Within or without british columbia Value at death Total
Gross value of estate Part iii debts and liabilities Paid or unpaid Amount
Total
Safety deposit box no.
Location:
Part iv distribution of estate Name
Relationship
Property passing This is exhibit b referred to in the affidavit Of .................................. sworn before me at ....................................... this ......... day of .................................................... 19...... .
..................................................
A commissioner for taking affidavits Within british columbia Form 72 (rule 61 (20) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to next of kin To [
Name and address of next of kin ]:
You are advised that the applicant whose name is set out on the back Of this notice has filed an application for grant of administration In this estate.
Particulars as to the estate are set out on the back of this notice.
It appears that you are a person eligible to apply for a grant of Administration. unless within .......... days [ To be fixed by registrar ] after the mailing of this notice to you, you notify the registrar In writing at the courthouse at ............................... of Your intention to apply for a grant of administration or of any Objection you may have to a grant of administration being made to The applicant, the court may grant administration to the applicant Without further notice to you.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Applicant [
Or applicant's solicitor ] [ Back
] Name of deceased:
Place of last residence:
Occupation:
Date of death:
Name and address of applicant for grant of administration:
Relationship of applicant to deceased:
Form 73 (rule 61 (25) ) [style proceeding] Administration bond We, ..................................., of ......................................, ................[ Occupation
]..................; ........................., of .............................., ...............[ Occupation
]...............; and ......................... of .............................., ...............[ Occupation
]..............., are jointly and severally bound unto the registrar Of the supreme court of british columbia at ..............................in the sum of $.......... to be paid To the registrar, for which payment we bind ourselves and each of Us, for the whole, our heirs, executors, and administrators.
The condition of this obligation is that if the above named .............................., the intended administrator of all The estate which by law devolves to and vests in the personal Representative of the deceased, .............................., when Lawfully required, (a) makes a true and perfect inventory of the estate which has or Shall come into his or her possession, control, or knowledge, or Into the possession or control of any other person for him or her, (b) exhibits the inventory to the supreme court of british columbia, (c) well and truly collects and administers the estate according to Law,
(d) makes a true account of his or her administration, and (e) lodges the grant of administration in the court, Then this obligation will be void and of no effect, but otherwise Will remain in full force.
Dated ..................................................
Signed, sealed, and delivered in the Presence of ) ..........................................................................
) ..........................................................................
..........................................................................
Form 74 (rule 61 (25) ) [style of proceeding] Administration bond on resealing We, ........................., of .............................., ...............[ Occupation
]...............; ........................., of .............................., ...............[ Occupation
]...............; and ......................... of .............................., ...............[ Occupation
]..............., are jointly and severally bound unto the registrar Of the supreme court of british columbia at .................... in The sum of $.......... to be paid to the registrar, for which Payment we bind ourselves and each of us, for the whole, our heirs, Executors, and administrators.
The condition of this obligation is that if the above named ...................., the administrator acting under letters of Administration of the estate of ...................., deceased, Granted to him or her on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., by ..........[ Name of issuing court ].......... and now about to be resealed in the province of british Columbia under the Probates recognition act , when lawfully required, (a) makes a true and perfect inventory of the estate in the province Of british columbia which has or shall come into his or her Possession, control, or knowledge, or into the possession or control Of any other person for him or her, (b) exhibits the inventory to the supreme court of british columbia, (c) well and truly collects and administers the estate according to Law,
(d) makes a true account of his or her administration, and (e) lodges the grant of administration in the court, Then this obligation will be void and of no effect, but otherwise Will remain in full force.
Dated ..................................................
Signed, sealed, and delivered in the Presence of ) ..........................................................................
) ..........................................................................
..........................................................................
Form 75 (rule 61 (34) ) [style of proceeding] Caveat
Let nothing be done without notice to ...................., Caveator, in the estate of ...................., deceased, late of .................... in the .................... of ...................., who died on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., at .................... in the .................... of .................... .
[state grounds for entering caveat as required by rule 61 (36)] .
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Caveator [
Solicitor for caveator ] Form 76 (rule 61 (39) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to caveator To ..............................:
Take notice that, unless you file an appearance at the office of the Registrar of the supreme court of british columbia at ...................., within 7 days after delivery of a copy of this Notice, the caveat you filed in the estate of ...................., Deceased, will be struck out by the registrar.
This notice was filed by or on behalf of ...................., whose Address for delivery is ...................., and who claims a right To issue this notice on the ground....................[ Here state ground as provided in rule 61 (40) ].................... .
A copy of your appearance is to be delivered to the above address For delivery forthwith after the original is filed at the office of The registrar.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Person issuing notice [ Or the person's solicitor ] Form 77 (rule 61 (44) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Citation to accept probate as executor To [
Name and address of executor ]:
You are advised that unless within 14 days after service of this Citation upon you, you apply for a grant of probate as executor of The will of ...................., deceased, who died on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., or within that time You file an answer undertaking to apply for probate within 14 days From the date of your answer showing cause why administration with The will annexed should not be granted to ..........[ Person intending to apply for administration with will annexed ].......... of ..........[ Address
].........., this court may grant administration of the estate to Him or her without further notice to you.
This citation was issued by ..........[name of citator]..........
Whose address for delivery is .............................
If you answer this citation your answer is to be filed at the Registry at .................................. and a copy delivered Forthwith to the above address for delivery.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Citator [
Or solicitor ] Form 78 (rule 61 (44) ) [style of proceeding] Answer
In answer to the citation dated the .......... day of ...................., 19..., i ...........[ State undertaking to apply for probate within 14 days, or refusal To act as executor, or state grounds upon which objection is taken To the citator applying for administration, as the case may be.
] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Executor
Form 79 (rule 61 (45) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Citation to propound an alleged will To [
Names and addresses of executors and other persons named in Alleged will ]:
It appears by the affidavit of ...................., sworn the .......... day of ...................., 19..., that deceased, of ..........[ Address
].......... died on ..........[ Date
].......... and that the deceased left a document purporting to be a Will, in which he or she appointed .................... sole Executor, and in which the following persons are named ..........[ List all persons named ]..........:
Take notice that, unless within 14 days after service of a copy of This citation on you, you file at the office of the registrar of the Supreme court at .................... written notice of your Intention to apply with reasonable diligence for probate or Administration based on the document referred to or show cause why Probate or administration should not be granted to ............[ Name and address of person intending to apply ].........., the court may grant probate or administration of the Estate to .................... without further notice to you and Without regard to the document referred to.
This citation was issued by ...................., whose address for Delivery is If you answer this citation, your answer is to be filed at the Registry at and a copy delivered to the above address for delivery.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Person intending to apply for probate Or administration [ Or solicitor ] Form 80 (rule 61 (45) ) [style of proceeding] Answer
In answer to the citation dated the .......... day of ...................., 19... . i ...............[ State intention of applying for probate or administration based on The document referred to in the citation, or stating grounds upon Which objection is taken to the citator applying for probate or Administration, as the case may be.
] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Person cited [ Or solicitor ] Form 81 (rule 61 (46) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Citation to bring in a will To ....................:
It appears by the affidavit of ...................., sworn ...................., that a testamentary document signed by ...................., deceased, of ...................., who died on The .......... day of ...................., 19..., may be in your Possession or control.
You are ordered to bring into registrar's office at the courthouse At .................... and leave with the registrar any Testamentary document signed by ...................., which is in Your possession or control, within 14 days after service of this Citation on you.
If no testamentary document is in your possession or control, you Are within the same time to file in the registrar's office an Affidavit to that effect and setting forth what knowledge you may Have respecting any testamentary document signed by ...................., deceased.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 82 (rule 61 (46) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Subpoena
To [
Name and address ]:
You are ordered to attend at the registrar's office at the Courthouse at .................... at ..........[ Time
].......... on ..........[ Date
].......... to be examined concerning the estate of ...................., deceased, and to deliver to me the following [ State documents or assets to be delivered ]:
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 83 (rule 61 (52) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re: estate of ................................................................, Deceased
Affidavit to lead to resealing of grant I, .......................................................[
Name and address of applicant ], make oath and say that:
1. ......................................................., late of ................................. in ..............................
Died on the ........ day of ............................, 19.....
Domiciled in ........................ [having by his or her last Will dated the ........ day of......................, 19...., Appointed me his or her executor (or intestate, or as the case may Be)].
2. a grant of probate of the will (or letters of administration of The estate) of the deceased was made to ............................................ by the ...............[ Court
]............... on the.......... day of...............,19... .
3. i have made a diligent search and inquiry to ascertain the assets And liabilities of the deceased.
4. the statement marked exhibit a to this affidavit discloses the Assets and liabilities of the deceased, irrespective of their Nature, location or value, which pass to the deceased's personal Representative, together with the names and addresses of the Beneficiaries, their relationship to the deceased and the property Passing to them.
5. i will disclose forthwith to the court the existence of any asset Or liability which has not been disclosed in exhibit a hereto when i Learn of the same.
6. i am the attorney of ..................................., Lawfully appointed under his or her hand and seal, and authorized to Apply to this court for the resealing of the grant ( Strike out this paragraph if not applicable ).
7. i believe there are no debts or liabilities in the province for Which the estate is or may be liable except as disclosed in exhibit A all of which have been paid [except ..........( State whether any consent in writing has been given )..........] and the estate is of small value, Or
, and the administrator is the beneficiary, Or
, and all persons who are or may be beneficially interested in the Estate have consented in writing. [ Strike out when not applicable. paragraph 7 required only to Reseal letters of administration — s. 3 (2) and (3) probate Recognition act.
] Sworn, etc.
Estate of ........................................................., Deceased
Assets, liabilities and distribution Part i Real property (including mortgages and vendors and Purchasers interests in agreements for sale) Within or without British columbia Value at death Total
Part ii personal property (all assets except real property) Within or without british columbia Value at death Total
Gross value of estate Part iii debts and liabilities Paid or unpaid Amount
Total
Safety deposit box no.
Location:
Part iv distribution of estate Name
Relationship
Property passing This is exhibit a referred to in the affidavit Of..................................sworn before me at ....................................... this ......... day of .................................................... 19...... .
..................................................
A
Commissioner for taking affidavits Within british columbia Form 84 (rule 61 (58) ) [style of proceeding] Affidavit in support of Application to pass accounts I ...................., of ...................., in the province of ...................., ..........[ Occupation
].........., make oath and say:
1. that a grant of administration of the estate of ...................., deceased, was made to me by this court on the .......... day of ...................., 19.... .
2. that i have administered the estate to the best of my ability.
3. that i have filed with the registrar a full and correct Accounting of the estate, showing all property, money, and effects And the proceeds thereof which have come into my hands as personal Representative, and also a full and correct statement of all Disbursements, with a full and correct statement of the assets not Yet disposed of.
4. that i have not been awarded any compensation for my services as Personal representative by this or any other court except 5. that the persons interested in the administration of the estate As beneficiaries of the deceased are as follows:
.............................., and all of them are of the full age Of 19 years except 6. that i know of no creditors of the estate who still have Unsettled claims against it which i consider to be valid except 7. that the only portion of the estate that remains unadministered Is as follows: .............................., and the reason it has Not been administered is Sworn, etc.
Form 85 (rule 62 (6) ) [style of proceeding] Citation to bring in grant To ..........[
Name and address of person holding grant ]..........:
Whereas an action has been commenced for the revocation of the Letters probate [ Or letters of administration ] of the will of [ Or of the estate of ] ...................., issued to .................... on ..........[ Date
].......... .
It is ordered that you deliver the original grant to registrar's Office at the courthouse at .................... within 7 days after Service of this citation upon you, and you shall not act under the Grant without leave from the registrar.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
Form 86 (rules 17, 25, and 2 (5) (g) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Default judgment The .......... day of ...................., 19.... .
The defendant(s) .............................. not having filed an Appearance to the writ of summons in this action and the time for Doing so having expired.
[or] The plaintiff(s) having filed and delivered a statement of claim and The defendant(s) .............................. having failed to File and deliver a statement of defence within the time allowed.
[or] Pursuant to an order made by .............................. on the .......... day of ...................., 19..., that this proceeding Continue as if no appearance had been entered or defence filed by The defendant(s).
[where rule 17 (3) or rule 25 (4) applicable] :
This court orders that the defendant(s) .............................. pay to the plaintiff(s) the sum of $.......... [interest as claimed ( Or
, interest pursuant to the Prejudgment interest act ) in the amount of $..........,] and $.......... costs, [ Or
, and costs to be assessed.] [where rule 17 (5) or rule 25 (6) applicable] :
This court orders that the defendant(s) .............................. pay to the plaintiff(s) damages to be Assessed and costs to be assessed.
[where rule 17 (6) (a) or rule 25 (7) (a) applicable] :
This court orders that the defendant(s) .............................. deliver to the plaintiff(s) the goods Detained by the defendant(s) .............................., being ..........[ Description of goods ].......... or pay to the plaintiff(s) their value to be assessed And pay $.......... costs, [ Or
, and pay costs to be assessed.] [where rule 17 (6) (b) or rule 25 (7) (b) applicable] :
This court orders that the defendant(s) .............................. pay to the plaintiff(s) the value to Be assessed of the goods detained by the defendant(s) .............................., being ..........[ Description of goods ].........., and $.......... costs. [ Or
, and costs to be assessed].
..................................................
Registrar
Form 87 (rule 57 (24) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Judgment upon a consent to judgment Given after an offer to settle The ......... day of .....................,19.... .
The defendant(s) ........................................................, having Filed and delivered a consent to judgment pursuant to an offer to Settle made by the plaintiff(s), This court orders that in accordance with the consent the Defendant(s) pay to the plaintiff(s) the sum of $..............[, And $................ costs ( Or
, and costs to be assessed) 1.
..................................................
Registrar
Form 88 (rule 43 (34) (e) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry [style of proceeding] Examiner's report I, ...................., a registrar designated as an examiner by The chief justice of the supreme court pursuant to rule 42 (27) of The rules of court, report:
1. that a subpoena was issued pursuant to rule 42 (23) directed to .................... . a copy of the subpoena is attached.
2. that the subpoena was served in accordance with the provisions of Rule 42 (25) and proof of service filed.
3. that the person subpoenaed did not attend as required at the Hearing [or, Refer to the default of the debtor specified in rule 42 (30) (a), (b), (c) or (d), giving particulars ].
4. that the solicitor for the creditor appeared at the time and Place and on the date fixed for the hearing.
5. that pursuant to rule 42 (30) i have fixed ..........day, the .......... day of ...................., 19..., at .......... o—clock In the ..........noon, at the courthouse at ..........[ Address
].......... as the time and place for appearance before the court.
Dated at ...................., b. c., this .......... day of ...................., 19... .
..................................................
Examiner
Form 89 (rule 60a (3) ) [style of proceeding] Property and financial statement I, .......................................................... (
Insert name of deponent ), of ............................................ in the province Of british columbia, make oath and say that (a) the particulars of my financial statement as set out in part 1, Are accurate to the best of my knowledge, information and belief (where applicable), and (b) the particulars of all of my property set out in part 2, are Accurate to the best of my knowledge, information and belief [note:
1. parts 1 and 2 are to be completed if a claim under the Divorce act , 1985 (canada) for a support order or variation order is made or an Application for child or spousal maintenance under part 4 of the Family relations act Is made, whether or not it is made in conjunction with a support Order under the Divorce act .
2. part 1 need not be completed if the proceeding relates solely to An application for relief under part 3 of the Family relations act (division of property), but if an application under part 3 is made In conjunction with an application for maintenance under the Family relations act Or a support order under the Divorce act , both parts of this form must be completed.
3. persons completing part 1 must attach (a) copies of the their 3 most recent income tax returns, together With attachments, if any, (b) a copy of the most recent assessment notice from the b.c.
Assessment authority for any property that the they owns in whole or In part, (c) copies of 3 recent pay slips from the their employer, and (d) if they are unemployed and in receipt of benefits under the Unemployment insurance act (canada) copies of the 3 most recent "u.i.c." benefit statements.] Part 1 — financial statement 1. income:
Gross estimated monthly employment income (a) .........................
Pension
(b) .........................
Dividends
(c) .........................
Interest
(d) .........................
Other: .........................
(e) .........................
Total:
$.............................
2. estimated monthly expenses:
Housing
Rent
(a) .........................
Mortgage payments (b) .........................
Taxes
(c) .........................
Heating
(d) .........................
Electricity
(e) .........................
Water & sewer rate (f) .........................
Insurance, property & taxes (g) .........................
Maintenance & repairs (h) .........................
Other: .........................
(i) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Automobile
Insurance
(a) .........................
Licence
(b) .........................
Repairs & maintenance (c) .........................
Gas & oil (d) .........................
Parking
(e) .........................
Other: .........................
(f) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Household expenses Food
(a) .........................
Supplies
(b) .........................
Telephone
(c) .........................
Cablevision
(d) .........................
Furniture repairs & replacement (e) .........................
Cleaning lady (f) .........................
Grass cutting (g) .........................
Other: .........................
(h) .........................
Subtotal
$............................
Medical/dental Medical insurance (a) .........................
Medical payments not covered (b) .........................
Dental insurance (c) .........................
Dental payments not covered (d) .........................
Orthodontistry
(e) .........................
Pharmaceuticals
(f) .........................
Other: .........................
(g) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Children
Clothing
(a) .........................
Hairdresser
(b) .........................
Entertainment
(c) .........................
Activities (sports, etc.) (d) .........................
Allowance
(e) .........................
Camp
(f) .........................
School supplies (insurance) (g) .........................
Babysitter
(h) .........................
Daycare
(i) .........................
Other: .........................
(j) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Yourself
Clothing
(a) .........................
Hairdresser & cosmetics (b) .........................
Entertainment
(c) .........................
Pocket money (e) .........................
Educational expenses (f) .........................
Newspaper & magazines (g) .........................
Life insurance (h) .........................
Other: .........................
(i) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Miscellaneous
Restaurant meals (a) .........................
Newspaper & magazines (b) .........................
Birthdays, christmas & gifts (c) .........................
Cigarettes
(d) .........................
Liquor
(e) .........................
Transportation (cabs & bus) (f) .........................
Vacation (reserve) () .........................
Laundry & drycleaning (g) .........................
Other: .........................
(h) .........................
.........................
(i) .........................
.........................
(j) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Loan payments & debts ..................................................
(a) .........................
..................................................
(b) .........................
..................................................
(c) .........................
..................................................
(d) .........................
..................................................
(e) .........................
Subtotal
$.............................
Reserve for income tax:
$.............................
Total monthly expenses:
$.............................
Total:
$.............................
Part 2 — property statement Real estate (include any interest in land, including leasehold interests and Mortgages, whether or not you are registered as owner. show Estimated market value of your interest, without deducting Encumbrances or costs of disposition, and show encumbrances under Debts and other liabilities.) Nature and type of Ownership
State percentage Interest where relevant Nature and Address of Property
Date of acquisition Estimated market Value of your Interest at date of The statement (insert value) Total $
General household items and vehicles (show items by category. include furniture and household effects, Clothing, jewelry, appliances, automobiles, boats and any other Vehicles and any other household items. give make, model and licence Number of automobiles, boats and other vehicles. list major items in Each category. show estimated market value, not cost of replacement For these items. do not deduct encumbrances here, but show Encumbrances under debts and other liabilities below.) Item
Particulars
Date of acquisition Of major items Estimated market Value of your Interest at date of The statement (insert value) Total $
Savings, savings plans and pensions (show items owned by category. include cash, accounts in financial Institutions, registered retirement or other savings plans, deposit Receipts, pensions and any other savings.) Category
Institution
Account
Number
Amount as at date of The statement (insert value) Total $
Securities
(show items owned by category. include shares, bonds, warrants, Options, debentures, notes and any other securities. give your best Estimate of market value if the items were to be sold on an open Market.)
Category
Number
Description
Date of acquisition Estimated market Value as at date Of the statement (insert value) Total $
Life and disability insurance Company
And
Policy no.
Kind of Policy
Owner
Beneficiary
Face
Amount
Date of Acquisition
Cash
Surrender
Value as at Date of the Statement
(insert value) Total $
Accounts receivable (give particulars of all debts owing to you, whether arising from Business or from personal dealings.) Particulars
Amount as at date of the Statement
(insert value) Total $
Business interests (show any interest owned directly or indirectly in any Unincorporated business including partnerships, trusts and joint Ventures. a controlling interest in an incorporated business may be Shown here or under securities above.) Name and address of Firm or company Nature of Interest
Date of acquisition Estimated market Value as of date of the Statement
(insert value) Total $
Other property (show other property by categories. include property of any kind not Shown above.) Category
Particulars
Date of acquisition Estimated market Value as at date of The statement (insert value) Total $
Debts and other liabilities (show your debts and other liabilities, whether arising from Personal or business dealings, by category such as mortgages, Charges, liens, notes, credit cards and accounts payable. include Contingent liabilities such as guarantees and indicate that they are Contingent.)
Category
Particulars
Date of acquisition Amount as at date of The statement (insert value) Total $
Disposal of property (show the value by category of all property that you disposed of During the 2 years immediately preceding the making of this Statement or since the date of the marriage, whichever period is Shorter.)
Category
Particulars
Date of disposal Date of disposal Total $
Which of these statements applies to you?
I do not anticipate any material changes in the information set out Above.
Or
I anticipate the following material changes in the information set Out above:
Sworn before me at .........................
) ......................................................
)......................................................
(signature of deponent) This ....... day of .................. 19....
Form 90 (rule 60 (44) ) Consent
I, ........................................, consent to the filing Of the attached agreement dated .................... in the supreme Court of british columbia for the purposes of the enforcement of any Provision of it respecting:
(a) custody or access to a child by a parent, or (b) the maintenance of a child by a parent or of a person by the Person's spouse.
Sworn before me at .........................
) ......................................................
)......................................................
(signature of deponent) This ....... day of .................. 19....
) ...........................................................
) A commissioner for taking affidavits ) For the province of british columbia.
) Form 91 (rule 60a (4) ) [style of proceeding] Notice to file a property and financial statement Take notice that, whether or not you intend to defend this Proceeding, you are required to deliver to the applicant a property And financial statement in form 89.
And take notice that under rule 60a (4) you must deliver to the Applicant or the applicant's solicitor your financial statement Within 30 days after being served with this notice.
And further take notice that if you do not deliver your property and Financial statement as required, the applicant may apply to the Court without further notice to you for an order compelling you to Deliver a property and financial statement.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Applicant [
Or applicant's solicitor ] To the respondent Form 92 (rule 26 (1) ) [style of proceeding] Demand for discovery of documents Take notice that the .............................. demands that you Make discovery of all documents which are or have been in your Possession or control relating to any matter in question in this Action within 21 days from the delivery of this demand.
Dated at .................... british columbia, this .......... day Of ....................,19... .
Per:..................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To:
And to:
This demand for discovery of documents is made by ............................ of the firm of .................................... solicitors for ..................................... whose place of business and Address for delivery is Form 93 (rule 26 (1) and (7) ) [style of proceeding] List of documents of (party) Part i. documents to which there is no objection to production:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Part ii. documents which have been but are not now in possession or Control:
1.
2.
Part iii. documents for which privilege from production is claimed ( State grounds of privilege ):
1.
2.
Take notice that the documents listed in part i may be inspected During normal business hours at ........................................ [ Place
] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To:
And to:
This notice is given by .............................. of the firm Of .................................. solicitors for ................................... whose place of business and Address for delivery is:
Form 94 (rule 60 (16) ) [style of proceeding] Offer to settle a claim for property or maintenance Take notice that the .................................... offers to Accept [
Specify the amount or the property acceptable to the spouse making The offer ], and costs to be assessed ( Or as the case may be ) in satisfaction of his or her claim for [ Specify the claim for maintenance or property, or part of the Claim, in respect of which the offer to settle is made ].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To: [
Other party ] And to: [ Other party's solicitor ] Form 95 (rule 60 (17) ) [style of proceeding] Revocation of offer to settle a claim for property or maintenance Take notice that the ........................................................ revokes his Or her offer to settle dated the ....... day of ..........................,19.... [or, revokes that part of his or Her offer to settle dated the .......day of ........................
19.... relating to ( Specify the part of the offer which is revoked )].
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To: [
Other party ] And to: [ Other party's solicitor ] Form 96 (rule 60 (18) ) [style of proceeding] Acceptance of offer to settle a claim For property or maintenance An offer to settle having been made by the ...................................................... under rule 60 (17), the ...................................................
Accepts the offer and consents to an order incorporating the terms Of the offer being made by the court.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Party [
Or party's solicitor ] To: [
Other party ] And to: [ Other party's solicitor ] Form 97 (rule 60b (9) ) [style of proceeding] No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Between
Petitioner
And
Respondent(s) Petition for divorce Notice to:
( Name and address of each respondent and other person named in Petition
.) This is a divorce proceeding. the claims made against you, or your Alleged involvement in the breakdown of the marriage, are specified In this petition for divorce, Your attention is directed to the notice and directions to persons Served which forms part of the petition and appears immediately After the signature of the petitioner and, if any, the statement of Solicitor.
The petition for divorce is issued out of the ........................ registry of the supreme court of british Columbia on this .......... day of .................., 19.... .
.........................................................................
District registrar Address of registry:
( Full address ) This is the petition for divorce of:
( Name and address of petitioner.
) Claim and grounds (1) the petitioner claims a divorce from the respondent spouse (and, .......................
Add any claim for support, custody, costs or other relief claimed ).
(2) the petitioner alleges that there has been a breakdown of the Marriage under the Divorce act , 1985 , (canada) section 8 (2) ( ) ( ), [and section 8 (2) ( ) ( ), As the case may be ] the particulars of which are as follows:
( Refer to specific paragraph or paragraphs of section 8 (2) relied Upon,
And for particulars set out each material fact relied upon But not the evidence by which it might be proved.
) Reconciliation
(3) the particulars of the circumstances which may assist the court To determine if there is a possibility of the reconciliation of the Spouses are as follows:
( Give particulars ) (4) the following efforts to reconcile have been made:
( Give particulars. if no effort has been made, so state.
) Particulars of marriage (5) date of marriage:
(6) place of marriage:
(7) surname of wife before marriage:
(8) maiden surname of wife:
(9) marital status of husband at time of marriage:
(10) marital status of wife at time of marriage:
(11) a certificate of the marriage or a certified copy of the Registration of the marriage is filed with this petition (or, cannot Be filed for the following reason:
[state reason, e.g. all records destroyed by fire in marriage Registry in country where marriage took place] ).
Residence and jurisdiction (12) petitioner's residence is:
(13) respondent spouse's residence is:
(14) the petitioner and the respondent ceased to reside together on:
(15) petitioner's birth date:
(16) respondent's birth date:
(17) the petitioner ( Or
, the respondent spouse) has been ordinarily resident in british Columbia for at least one year immediately preceding the Commencement of this proceeding.
Age and disability (18) that no party or person named in this petition for divorce, Excluding children of the marriage, is under 19 years of age except:
( Name the person and give the age ) (19) that no party or person named in this petition for divorce is Under any other legal disability except:
( Name the person and describe the disability.
) Children
(20) the name and date of birth of each living child of the marriage As defined by the Divorce act, 1985 (canada) is:
(21) the particulars of the past, present and proposed custody, Care, upbringing and education of the child(ren) are as follows:
(22) the petitioner claims custody of the following child(ren):
(23) the facts in support of the claim for custody are as follows:
(24) the petitioner is willing for the respondent spouse to have Access to the child(ren) as follows:
( Give particulars, e.g. at all reasonable times, or specify times And length of access, E.g. every second weekend and one month during summer vacation.
If petitioner objects to any access, so state and give reasons.
) Other proceedings (25) the particulars and status of any other proceeding commenced With respect to the marriage or any child thereof, including Proceedings for support or maintenance or under any statute are as Follows:
( No proceeding prior to marriage, or adoption proceeding, should be Included,
But where a support or maintenance order is in arrears, state the Amount of arrears.
) Separation agreements and financial arrangements (26) the petitioner and the respondent spouse have entered into the Following marriage agreement as defined in the Family relations act , or separation agreement, or other post or ante nuptial agreement Or financial arrangement:
( Give particulars of dates and nature of each agreement or Arrangement
And state whether or not it is still in effect.
) (27) the financial position, both income and capital, of the Petitioner and of the respondent is as follows:
( To be completed only if claim for support or custody, Or other financial relief, is made.
) Collusion, condonation and connivance (28) there has been no collusion in relation to this petition, that Is, there has been no agreement or conspiracy to which the Petitioner is either directly or indirectly a party for the purpose Of subverting the administration of justice, and no agreement, Understanding or arrangement to fabricate or suppress evidence or to Deceive the court.
(29) ( Where the ground for divorce is adultery or physical or mental Cruelty.
) there has been no condonation of or connivance at the grounds for Divorce set forth in this petition. ( Or, where collusion or connivance exists, state the facts on which The court will be asked to find that the public interest would be Better served by granting the divorce .) Relief claimed The petitioner therefore claims and asks this honourable court to Grant the following relief:
(a) that the petitioner and the respondent spouse shall be divorced From each other, (b) Etc.,
(c) Etc.
Place of hearing The petitioner proposes that this petition will be heard by the Court at: .................( Place
)..............
Signed at ...................., in the province of british columbia, This ........... day of ..................., 19...., the petitioner Acknowledging that the statements in this petition for divorce are True to the best of the petitioner's knowledge, information and Belief.
..................................................
Signature of petitioner ( Where the petitioner acts in person, set out below the Petitioner's address for service or delivery, Which must be within 10 miles [i 6 km] of the registry, and Telephone number, And strike out the "statement of solicitor" following.
) Petitioner's address for service/delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
Petitioner's telephone number:
Statement of solicitor I, ......................................, solicitor for the Petitioner, certify to the court that i have complied with section 9 Of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
( Where the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it Would
Clearly not be appropriate to so comply, set out such Circumstances.
) Dated at ...................., in the province of british columbia, This ........... day of ..................., 19.... .
Address of solicitor:
............................................................
............................................................
......................................................
Signature of solicitor ............................................................
Notice and directions to persons served Let all respondents and other persons upon whom this petition for Divorce is served take notice:
(a) if you wish to oppose the divorce proceeding or any claim made Against you, or if you wish to advance claims of your own, you must Cause a document known as an "answer" or an "answer and counter- Petition", respectively, in the form prescribed by the rules of Court to be filed in the above noted registry of this court and Cause a copy to be either delivered or served, as provided by the Rules, on the petitioner or, if the petitioner has a lawyer, Delivered to that lawyer, within the following time limit:
(i) if you were within british columbia when served with this Petition for divorce, the time limit is 20 days; or (ii) if you were anywhere else in canada or in one of the Continental united states of america when served, the time limit is 40 days; or (iii) if you were served anywhere else, the time limit is 60 days; And
(iv) if the petition for divorce was served upon you by some Substitutional means (not in person) the time limit is the time Fixed by the order of this court granting substituted service, (b) your answer, or answer and counter-petition, must provide an Address at which further documents may be served or delivered, which Address, unless it is the office address in british columbia of your Lawyer, must be within 10 miles (16 kilometres) of the above noted Registry of this court, (c) if you do not file and serve or deliver an answer or answer and Counter-petition within the proper time limit set out above, then The petitioner may proceed without any further notice to you, you Will not be entitled to further notice, and a judgment granting a Divorce and any other claims against you may be given in your Absence,
(d) that, unless the court otherwise orders, a divorce takes effect On the 31st day after the day on which the judgment granting the Divorce is rendered, and that neither spouse is free to remarry Until the divorce is in effect, (e) if you are not a respondent but have been named in the petition For divorce and you wish to make a claim against the petitioner for Costs or other relief, you must apply to the court to be added as a Respondent within the time limit set out above and the court will Decide the additional time, if any, to be given you for the purpose Of filing an answer or answer and counter-petition.
Form 98 (rule 60b (23) ) [style of proceeding] Answer
1. the respondent, ......................................., admits The facts alleged in paragraphs ..................................of The petition for divorce.
2. the respondent, ..........................................., Denies the facts alleged in paragraphs .................................... of the petition for divorce.
3. the respondent, ................................................, Has no knowledge in respect of the facts or allegations in Paragraphs of the petition for divorce.
4.
Etc. (set out in consecutively numbered paragraphs the material Facts relied upon for opposing the petition, but not the evidence By which they might be proved).
The respondent, ..............................., therefore claims And asks this honourable court to dismiss the petition for divorce With costs.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Signature of respondent Or respondent's solicitor ( Where the respondent acts in person, set out below the Respondent's address for service Or delivery, which Must
Be within 10 miles [16 km] of the registry, and telephone number, And strike out the "statement of solicitor" following.
) Respondent's address for service/delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
Respondent's telephone number:
Statement of solicitor I, .................................., solicitor for the above named Respondent, certify to the court that i have complied with section 9 Of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
( Where the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it Would
Clearly not be appropriate to so comply, set out such Circumstances.
) Dated at ...................., in the province of british columbia, This ........... day of ..................., 19.... .
Address of solicitor:
............................................................
............................................................
......................................................
Signature of solicitor ............................................................
[ Note: where answer is made by a person named in a petition for Divorce who is not a respondent, strike out the words "the respondent" Wherever they appear and substitute the name of that person Without any description or title .
Where the answer is made to a counter-petition, make any necessary Change required in the circumstances, e.g. instead of "respondent" Substitute
"petitioner" Or
"respondent by counter-petitio" As the case may be, and change "petition for divorce" To
"counter-petition".] Form 99 (rule 60b (23) ) [style of proceeding] Answer
1. the respondent, ...................................., opposes the Petition for divorce limited to the claim or claims of:
[ ] (a) costs [ ] (b) custody of children [ ] (c) access to child(ren) [ ] (d) support of spouse [ ] (e) support of child(ren) 2.
Etc. (set out in consecutively numbered paragraphs the material Facts relied upon for opposing the petition, but not the evidence By which they might be proved).
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Signature of respondent Or respondent's solicitor ( Where the respondent acts in person, set out below the Respondent's address for service Or delivery, which Must
Be within 10 miles [16 km] of the registry, and telephone number, And strike out the "statement of solicitor" following.) Respondent's address for service/delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
Respondent's telephone number:
Statement of solicitor I, .................................., solicitor for the above named Respondent, certify to the court that i have complied with section 9 Of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
( Where the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it Would
Clearly not be appropriate to so comply, set out such Circumstances.
) Dated at ...................., in the province of british columbia, This ........... day of ..................., 19.....
Address of solicitor:
............................................................
............................................................
......................................................
Signature of solicitor ............................................................
[ Note: where answer is made by a person named in a petition for Divorce who is not a respondent, Strike out the words "the respondent" Wherever they appear and substitute the name of that Person without any description or title .
Where the answer is made to a counter-petition, make any necessary Change required in the Circumstances, e.g. instead of "respondent" Substitute
"petitioner" Or
"respondent by counter- Petition"
As the case may be, and change "petition for divorce" To
"counter-petition".] Form 100 (rule 60b (10) ) No. ..............................
.............................. registry In the supreme court of british columbia Re: a divorce proceeding by both spouses for dissolution of the Marriage between ............................, husband, and ....................................., wife.
Petition for divorce This is the joint petition for divorce of:
(names and addresses of both spouses) Claim and grounds (1) the petitioners claim a divorce from each other .............................................. (and by consent an Order for, [ Add: support, custody, costs or other relief claimed ]).
(2) the petitioners allege that there has been a breakdown of the Marriage under section 8 (2) (a) of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada), the particulars of which are that the petitioners are Living separate and apart at the time of commencement of this Proceeding and have lived separate and apart since the ...........
Day of ........................, 19.... .
Reconciliation
(3) the particulars of the circumstances which may assist the court To determine if there is a possibility of the reconciliation of the Spouses are as follows:
( Give particulars ) (4) the following efforts to reconcile have been made:
( Give particulars. if no effort has been made, so state.
) Particulars of marriage (5) date of marriage:
(6) place of marriage:
(7) surname of wife before marriage:
(8) maiden surname of wife:
(9) marital status of husband at time of marriage:
(10) marital status of wife at time of marriage:
(11) a certificate of the marriage or a certified copy of the Registration of the marriage is filed with this petition (or, cannot Be filed for the following reason:
[state reason, e.g. all records destroyed by fire in marriage Registry in country where marriage took place] ).
Residence and jurisdiction (12) husband's residence is:
(13) wife's residence is:
(14) the petitioners ceased to reside together on:
(15) the petitioners ( Or
, one of the petitioners) has been ordinarily resident in british Columbia for at least one year immediately preceding the Commencement of this proceeding.
Age and disability (16) husband's birth date:
(17) wife's birth date:
(18) that neither petitioner is under any other legal disability.
Children
(19) the name and date of birth of each living child of the marriage As defined by the Divorce act, 1985 (canada) is:
(20) the particulars of the past, present and proposed custody, Care, upbringing and education of the child(ren) are as follows:
(21) the husband/wife with the consent of the other spouse asks for An order for custody of the following children:
(22) the facts in support of the claim for custody are as follows:
(23) the petitioners consent to and agree to the following terms of Access to the child(ren) by the spouse who will not have custody:
( Give particulars, e.g. at all reasonable times, or specify times And length of access, E.g. every second weekend and one month during summer vacation.
) Other proceedings (24) the particulars and status of any other proceeding commenced With respect to the marriage or any child thereof, including Proceedings for support or maintenance or under any statute are as Follows:
( No proceeding prior to marriage, or adoption proceeding, should Be included, but where a support or maintenance order is in Arrears, state the amount of arrears.
) Separation agreements and financial arrangements (25) the petitioners have entered into the following marriage Agreement as defined in the Family relations act , or separation agreement, or other post or ante nuptial agreement Or financial arrangement:
( Give particulars of dates and nature of each agreement or Arrangement and State whether or not it is still in effect.
) (26) the financial position, both income and capital, of the husband And of the wife is as follows:
( To be completed where there is a claim by a spouse for a support Order,
Or where there is a child of the marriage as defined by the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
) Collusion
(27) there has been no collusion in relation to this petition, that Is, there has been no agreement or conspiracy between the Petitioners, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of subverting The administration of justice, and no agreement, understanding or Arrangement to fabricate or suppress evidence or to deceive the Court.
Relief claimed The petitioners claim and ask this honourable court to grant the Following relief:
(a) that the petitioners shall be divorced from each other, (b) by consent, that (c) by consent, that Place of hearing The petitioners propose that this petition will be heard by the Court at: ..................( Place
).................. .
Signature and acknowledgements The petitioners state that they are presenting this joint petition For divorce with full knowledge that:
(a) each of them is entitled to obtain legal advice independently of The other, (b) each of them is entitled to be separately represented by a Lawyer of his or her own choice, (c) neither of them can legally be forced or required by the other To seek a divorce or to sign this petition for divorce.
Signed by the petitioners at .................................., in The province of british columbia, on the ............day of ......................, 19...., the petitioners certifying that the Statements in this petition for divorce are true.
..................................................
Signature of petitioner ..................................................
Signature of petitioner ( Where the petitioners act in person, strike out "statement of Solicitor" following, and add:
) Husband's mailing address and telephone number:
Wife's mailing address and telephone number:
Statement of solicitor I, .........................................., solicitor for the ...................................................., certify to the Court that i have complied with section 9 of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
( Where the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it Would clearly not Be appropriate to so comply, set out such circumstances.
) Dated at ...................., in the province of british columbia, This ........... day of ..................., 19....
Address of solicitor:
............................................................
............................................................
......................................................
Signature of solicitor ............................................................
( Note: if the husband and the wife are separately represented, Each solicitor must make a statement in the above form.
) Form 101 (rule 60b (24) ) [style of proceeding] Answer and counter-petition Notice to: the petitioner And to:
( Name and address of each respondent by counter-petition and other Person named in the counter-petition .) This is an answer to the petition for divorce issued by the Petitioner
And a counter-petition .
The claims made against you, or your alleged involvement in the Breakdown of the marriage, are specified in the Counter-petition .
Your attention is directed to the notice and directions to persons Served which forms part of the counter-petition and appears Immediately after the signature of the respondent and, if any, the Statement of solicitor.
The answer and counter-petition is filed and issued out of the ..................... registry of the supreme court of british Columbia on this ........ day of......................, 19.... .
Address of registry:
..................................................
District registrar Answer
1. the respondent, .............................., admits the facts Alleged in paragraphs .............................. of the petition For divorce.
2. the respondent, .............................., denies the facts Alleged in paragraphs .............................. of the petition For divorce.
3. the respondent, .............................., has no knowledge In respect of the facts or allegations in paragraphs .............................. of the petition for divorce.
4. etc. ( Set out in consecutively numbered paragraphs the material facts Relied upon for opposing the petition, but not the evidence by Which they might be proved ).
Counter-petition This is the counter-petition of the respondent, ( Full name and address ) 1. the respondent, .............................., claims a divorce From the petitioner ( And, add any claim for support, custody, costs or other relief Claimed
) [ Or alternatively : the respondent, .............................., claims custody of The child(ren) of the marriage, ..............................( Names
), support for the respondent, and support for the child(ren) ...............................( And, add any other relief claimed ) ].
2. [ If applicable ] the respondent, .............................., alleges that there Has been a breakdown of the marriage under the Divorce act, 1985 (canada), section 8 (2) ( ) ( ), [and section 8 (2) ( ) ( ), As the case may be ] The particulars of which are as follows :
( Refer to specific paragraph or paragraphs of section 8 (2) relied Upon, and for particulars set out each material fact relied upon But not the evidence by which it might be proved.
) [ Where the facts set out in any paragraph in the petition for Divorce (form 97) are not admitted in paragraph 1 of the above Answer, repeat the paragraphs not admitted in the following Manner:
3. in response to paragraph ( ) of the petition for divorce, the Respondent, .............................., says the true facts are:
4.
Etc.
] [ Note: if a divorce is claimed by the respondent, paragraphs (26) And (27) in form 97 must be pleaded in the counter-petition, Changing the words "petition for divorce" to read "counter-petition".
] The respondent, .............................., therefore claims and Asks this honourable court to grant the following relief:
(d) that, unless the court otherwise orders, a divorce takes effect On the 31st day after the day on which the judgment granting the Divorce is rendered, and that neither spouse is free to remarry Until the divorce is in effect, (a) that the petition for divorce be dismissed, (b) [ If applicable ] that the petitioner and the respondent, .........................., shall be divorced from each other, (c) etc., (d) etc.
Signed at ..................., in the province of british columbia, This ........ day of......................, 19...., the respondent, .............................., acknowledging that the statements in This answer and this counter-petition are true to the best of the Respondent's knowledge, information and belief.
..................................................
Signature of respondent ( Where the respondent acts in person, set out below the Respondent's address for service or Delivery which must be within 10 miles [16 km] of the registry, And telephone number, and strike Out the "statement of solicitor" following.
) Respondent's address for delivery:
Fax number for delivery:
Respondent's telephone number:
Statement of solicitor I, .............................., solicitor for the above named Respondent, certify to the court that i have complied with section 9 Of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada).
( Where the circumstances of the case are of such a nature that it Would clearly not be appropriate to so comply, set out such Circumstances.
) Dated at .................... british columbia, this .......... day Of ....................,19...
Address of solicitor:
............................................................
............................................................
......................................................
Signature of solicitor ............................................................
Notice and directions to persons served Let the petitioner and all respondents by counter-petition or other Persons upon whom this counter-petition is served take notice:
(a) if you wish to oppose the counter-petition or any claim made Against you, you must cause a document known as an "answer", Substantially in one of the forms of answer prescribed by the rules Of court but with any necessary changes, to be filed in the above Noted registry of this court and cause a copy to be delivered, as Provided by the rules, to the respondent who has issued the Counter-petition or, if the respondent has a lawyer, to that lawyer, Within the following time limit:
(i) if you were within british columbia when served with this Counter-petition, the time limit is 20 days; or (ii) if you were anywhere else in canada or in one of the Continental united states of america when served, the time limit is 40 days; or (iii) if you were served anywhere else, the time limit is 60 days, And
(iv) if the counter-petition was served upon you by some Substitutional means (not in person) the time limit is the time Fixed by the order of this court granting substituted service, (b) your answer must provide an address at which further documents May be served or delivered, which address, unless it is the office Address in british columbia of your lawyer, must be within 10 miles (16 kilometres) of the above noted registry of this court, (c) if you do not file and deliver an answer within the proper time Limit set out above, then the divorce proceeding may be determined Without any further notice to you, you will not be entitled to Further notice, and a judgment granting a divorce and any other Claims made against you in the counter-petition may be given in your Absence,
(d) that, unless the court otherwise orders, a divorce takes effect On the 31st day after the day on which the judgment granting the Divorce is rendered, and that neither spouse is free to remarry Until the divorce is in effect, (e) if you are not the petitioner or a respondent by Counter-petition and you wish to make a claim for costs or other Relief against the respondent who has issued the counter-petition, You must apply to the court to be added as a respondent by Counter-petition within the above time limit set out above and the Court will decide the additional time, if any, to be given you for The purpose of filing an answer.
Form 102 (rule 60b (38) ) [style of proceeding] Affidavit of service I,..............................[
Name in full , of ...............................[ Address in full ] ....................[ Occupation
], make oath and say:
1. that a copy of the petition for divorce in this proceeding was Served by me on the respondent,..........................., at ...................................[ Insert full address of place where service made ] on the .......... day of ....................,19..., at the hour Of................ o—clock in the .....noon, by handing it to and Leaving it with the respondent.
[insert similar paragraphs for each additional respondent served; And for any person served who is not a respondent change the Wording to read "served by me on ..........................., a Person named therein, at ..." and repeat the full name of the Person instead of the word "respondent" in the last line] 2. that a copy of the document served by me on the person(s) and in The manner aforesaid is annexed and marked exhibit "a" to this Affidavit.
3. [ If applicable ] that marked exhibit "b" to this affidavit is a photograph which is A true likeness of the respondent, ................................., whom i served as aforesaid.
4. [ If applicable ] that the means by which i identified the person(s) served are:
[complete in subparagraphs (a), (b), etc. (where more than one Person served) and describe means, e.g. admissions, driver's Licence (give number), etc.] Sworn, etc.
Form 103 (rule 60b (48) ) [style of proceeding] Order
Before the honourable mr. justice ) ............day, the ...............
Signing officer ) day of ....................,19.... .
This proceeding [coming on for trial at ........................., On the ............... day of ....................,19...., and on Hearing ..............................., counsel for the petitioner, And ..............................., counsel for the respondent, and Upon hearing the evidence adduced].......... [ Or, if such is the case , coming before me as an undefended divorce proceeding without an Oral hearing, and upon reading the affidavits and other documents Filed].............. [
Where the divorce is effective earlier than 31 days after judgment Add:
And the court being of the opinion that by reason of special Circumstances the divorce should take effect earlier than the 31st Day after this date and the spouses having agreed and undertaken That no appeal will be taken from this order]:
This court orders that, subject to section 12 of the Divorce act, 1985 (canada), the petitioner, ..............................., and the Respondent, ..............................., who were married at ...............................on the ............... day of ....................,19...., are divorced from each other, the Divorce to take effect on the 31st day after the date hereof [ Or, if so ordered , to take effect forthwith] [ Or, if so ordered , to take effect on the ............... day of ....................,19....].
And further orders that, etc.
And further orders that, etc.
By the court.
..................................................
District registrar Form 104 (rule 13 (14) ) Request
For service abroad of judicial or extrajudicial documents Convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial Documents
In civil or commercial matters, Signed at the hague, november 15, 1965.
Identity and address of the applicant Address of receiving authority The undersigned applicant has the honour to transmit — in duplicate — the documents listed below and, in conformity with article 5 of The convention, requests prompt service of one copy thereof on the Addressee, i.e., [identity and address] ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(a) in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of the First paragraph of article 5 of the convention*.
(b) in accordance with the following particular method (subparagraph (b) of the first paragraph of article 5*).............................................................................................
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(c) by delivery to the addressee, if he or she accepts it Voluntarily (second paragraph of article 5*) The authority is requested to return or to have returned to the Applicant a copy of the documents — and of the annexes* — with a Certificate as provided in form 106.
List of documents ........................................................................................................
Done at ..............................................................
, .........................................,..............................................................
The
.......................................................................
........................................................................................................
( Date
) ........................................................................................................
.......................................................................
........................................................................................................
Signature and/or stamp.
........................................................................................................
*delete if inappropriate.
Form 105 (rule 13 (14) ) Notice and summary of document Identity and address of the addressee Important
The enclosed document is of a legal nature and may affect your Rights and obligations the "summary of the document to be served" Will give you some information about its nature and purpose. you Should, however, read the document itself carefully. it may be Necessary to seek legal advice.
If your financial resources are insufficient you should seek Information on the possibility of obtaining legal aid or advice Either in the country where you live or in the country where the Document was issued.
Inquiries about the availability of legal aid or advice in the Country where the document was issued may be directed to:
Legal services society 300-1140 west pender street Vancouver, b.c. v6e 4g1 (phone) (604) 660-4600 Summary of document to be served ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Name and address of the requesting authority .....................................................................................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
*particulars of the parties .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**judicial document Nature and purpose of the document ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Nature and purpose of the proceedings and where appropriate the Amount in dispute ............................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**date and place for entering appearance ............................................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**court which has given judgment .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**date of judgment/- - - - ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**time limits stated in the document ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**extrajudicial document Nature and purpose of the document .................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
**time limits stated in the document .................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
*if appropriate, identity and address of the person interested in The transmission of the document.
**delete if inappropriate/----- Form 106 (rule 13 (15) ) Certificate
The undersigned authority has the honour to certify, in conformity With article 6 of the convention.
1. that the document has been served* — the [ Date
] — at [ Place, street, number ] — In one of the following methods authorized by article 5 — (a) in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of the First paragraph of article 5 of the convention* (b) in accordance with the following particular method*:
.........................................................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(c) by delivery to the addressee, who accepted it voluntarily*.
The documents referred to in the request have been delivered to:
— ( Relationship of person to addressee (family, business or other ))* 2. that the document has not been served, by reason of the following Facts*:
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
In conformity with the second paragraph of article 12 of the Convention, the applicant is requested to pay or reimburse the Expenses detailed in the attached statement* Annexes
Documents returned:
.................................................................................
................................................................................
Done at ......................................................, The
..............................................................
In appropriate cases, documents Stablishing the service:
.................................................................................
.................................................................................
Signature and/or stamp.
*delete if inappropriate.
Form 107 (rule 63a (3) ) In the supreme court of british columbia Admiralty action in rem against The ship ............................... (and/or property) Between
Plaintiffs
And
The owners and all others Interest in the ship ................................
(and for other property), Defendants
Writ of summons Name and address of each plaintiff Description of ship and/or other property Elizabeth the second, by the grace of god, of the united kingdom, Canada and her other realms and territories, queen, head of the Commonwealth, defender of the faith.
To the defendant(s):
Take notice that this action has been commenced against you by the Plaintiff(s) for the claim(s) set out in this writ.
If you intend to defend this action, or if you have a set off or Counterclaim which you wish to have taken into account at the trial, You must give notice of your intention by filing a form entitled "appearance" in the above registry of this court within the time for Appearance endorsed hereon and you must also deliver a copy of the "appearance" to the plaintiffs address for delivery, which is set Out in this writ.
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance". you may obtain a Form of "appearance" at the registry.
If you fail to file the "appearance" within the proper time for Appearance, judgment may be taken against you without further Notice.
The address of the registry is:
Name and office address of plaintiff's solicitor:
Plaintiff's address for delivery: ................ as above.
Fax number for delivery:
[ Back
] The plaintiff's claim is [ Or set out a statement of claim in form 13 ] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or solicitor ] Time for appearance The time for appearance is 7 days from the service of this writ on The ship or other property described herein (not including the day Of service).
Form 108 (rule 63a (4) ) In the supreme court of british columbia Admiralty action In rem Against
The ship .................................... (and/or property) And in personam Between
Plaintiffs
And
The owners and all others Interest in the ship .......................................................
(and/or other property), and Defendants
Writ of summons Name and address of each plaintiff Description of ship and/or other property Name and address of the defendants in personam Elizabeth the second, by the grace of god, of the united kingdom, Canada and her other realms and territories, queen, head of the Commonwealth, defender of the faith.
To the defendant(s):
Take notice that this action has been commenced against you by the Plaintlff(s) for the claim(s) set out in this writ.
If you intend to defend this action, or if you have a set off or Counterclaim which you wish to have taken into account at the trial, You must give notice of your intention by filing a form entitled "appearance" in the above registry of this court within the time for Appearance endorsed hereon and you must also deliver a copy of the "appearance" to the plaintiffs address for delivery, which is set Out in this writ.
You or your solicitor may file the "appearance". you may obtain a Form of "appearance" at the registry.
If you fail to file the "appearance" within the proper time for Appearance, judgment may be taken against you without further Notice.
The address of the registry is:
Name and office address of plaintiff's solicitor:
Plaintiff's address for delivery: .................... as above.
Fax number for delivery:
[ Back
] The plaintiff's claim is .........................[ Or set out a statement of claim in form 13 ] Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Plaintiff [
Or solicitor ] Time for appearance Service on ship The time for appearance is 7 days from the service of this writ on The ship or other property described herein (not including the day Of service).
Service on defendant in personam Where this writ is served on a person in british columbia, the time For appearance by that person is 7days from the service (not Including the day of service).
Where this writ is served on a person outside british columbia, the Time for appearance by that person, after service, is 21 days in the Case of a person residing anywhere within canada, 28 days in the Case of a person residing in the united states of america, and 42 Days in the case of a person residing elsewhere. the court may Shorten the time for appearance on Ex parte Application.
Form 109 (rule 55 (9) ) [style of proceeding] Affidavit to lead warrant I, ..........[
Name of the deponent ].......... of ..........[ Address
].......... hereby make oath and say as follows:
I, ....................[
Here describe relationship to the party at whose instance the ship Or other property is to be arrested and the basis of the Deponent's knowledge ].................... and accordingly have knowledge of the facts to Which hereinafter i depose save and except where such are stated to Be on information and belief.
The name and address of the party making application for a warrant For the arrest of the ship or other property named herein is [ State name and address ] .
The nature of the claim which is the subject of the action against The ship or other property named herein is [ Describe the claim and state the amount if known ] .
The claim has not been satisfied.
The property to be arrested is [ Describe the ship or other property in sufficient detail to Facilitate an arrest ] .
No notice of this action is required or the notice of this action Required has been given and a copy of the notice is annexed to this My affidavit and marked exhibit "a".
Sworn before me etc.
Form 110 (rule 55 (11) ) [style of proceeding] Warrant
You are commanded to arrest the ship ...................., her cargo And freight etc. [ Or as the case may be ], and to keep the same under arrest until you are otherwise Ordered.
Dated ..................................................
.......................................................................
Registrar
This warrant is taken out by .................................[ Name of person at whose instance the warrant is issued or his or Her solicitor and his or her address for service in british Columbia
] Form 111 (rule 55 (20) ) [style of proceeding] Caveat
Caveat entered this .......... day of ...................., 19..., Against the issue of a release from arrest of the ship ...................., her cargo and freight etc. [ Or as the case may be ], or the payment out of court of the proceeds of any sale of the Ship ...................., her cargo and freight etc. [ Or as the case may be ], by ...................[ Name and address for service in british columbia ]......................................................................................
....................................................................................................................................
Person entering caveat or person's solicitor Form 112 (rule 55 (21) ) [style of proceeding] Notice of withdrawal of caveat Take notice that .................... withdraws the caveat entered Herein the .......... day of ...................., 19... .
Caveat withdrawn this .......... day of ...................., 19...
.
......................................................................................
Person filing notice or person's solicitor Form 113 (rule 55 (26) ) [style of proceeding] Payment into court as bail The amount of .................... is hereby paid into court as bail To answer judgment given against the defendant ship [ Or as the case may be ] together with interest and costs.
Given at ...................., british columbia, this .......... day Of ...................., 19... .
...............................................................................
Person making payment or person's solicitor Form 114 (rule 55 (26) ) [style of proceeding] Bank guarantee or bailbond We, .........[
Bank or surety company ]........., hereby submit to the jurisdiction of this court and Consent that if a judgment given herein against the defendant ship [ Or as the case may be ] is not satisfied or stayed, execution may issue against us for a Sum not exceeding $.......... inclusive of interest and costs.
Given this .......... day of ...................., 19... .
..........................................................................
Bank or surety company Form 115 (rule 55 (30) ) [style of proceeding] Release
Whereas by our warrant issued in this action on the .......... day Of ...................., 19..., you were commanded to arrest the Ship ...................., her cargo and freight etc. [ Or as the case may be ] and to keep the same under arrest until you should receive a Further order, you are commanded to release the ship ...................., her cargo and freight etc. [ Or as the case may be ], from arrest upon payment being made to you of all fees due and All charges incurred by you in respect of the arrest and custody Thereof.
Given at ...................., british columbia, this .......... day Of ...................., 19... .
.........................................................................
Registrar
Appendix b Ordinary costs Interpretation
1.
In this appendix "process" means the drawing, filing, service or Delivery of a document and any amendment to it or particulars of it, But does not include an application made with respect to the process Or any part of the process.
Scale of costs 2.
(1) where a court has made an order for costs, it may fix the scale, From scale 1 to 5 in subsection (2), under which the costs will be Assessed, and may order that one or more steps in the proceeding be Assessed under a different scale from that fixed for other steps.
(2) in fixing the scale of costs the court shall have regard to the Following principles:
(a) scale 1 is for matters of little difficulty; (b) scale 2 is for matters of less than ordinary difficulty; (c) scale 3 is for matters of ordinary difficulty or importance; (d) scale 4 is for matters of more than ordinary difficulty or Importance;
(e) scale 5 is for matters of unusual difficulty or importance.
(3) in fixing the appropriate scale under which costs will be Assessed, the court may take into account the following:
(a) whether a difficult issue of law, fact or construction is Involved;
(b) whether an issue is of importance to a class or body of persons, Or is of general interest; (c) whether the result of the proceeding effectively determines the Rights and obligations as between the parties beyond the relief that Was actually granted or denied.
(4) where an order for costs has been made, or where, on a Settlement, payment of assessed costs has been agreed to, but no Scale has been fixed or agreed to, then the costs shall be assessed Under scale 3, unless a party, on application, obtains an order of The court that the costs be assessed under another scale.
Assessment of costs 3.
(1) the value for each unit allowed on an assessment is as follows:
(a) scale 1 — $20 for each unit; (b) scale 2 — $40 for each unit; (c) scale 3 — $60 for each unit; (d) scale 4 — $80 for each unit; (e) scale 5 — $100 for each unit.
(2) where maximum and minimum numbers of units are provided for in An item in the tariff, the registrar has the discretion to allow a Number within that range of units.
(3) in assessing costs where the tariff indicates a range of units, The registrar shall have regard to the following principles:
(a) one unit is for matters upon which little time should ordinarily Have been spent; (b) he maximum number of units is for matters upon which a great Deal of time should ordinarily have been spent.
Per diem rates 4.
(1) where in a tariff item a number of units is allowed for each day But the time spent during a day is not more than 2 1/2 hours, only 1/2 of the number of units shall be allowed for that day.
(2) where in a tariff item a number of units is allowed for each day But the time spent during a day is more than 5 hours, the number of Units allowed for that day shall be increased by 1/2 of the number.
(3) where in a tariff item a number of units is allowed for Preparation for an attendance but the time spent on the attendance Is not more than 2 1/2 hours, only 1/2 of the number of units for Preparation shall be allowed.
Uncontested matrimonial proceedings 5.
In a divorce proceeding that has proceeded to judgment under rule 60b (46) (a), or in a proceeding for judicial separation or Annulment of marriage that is uncontested at trial on any issue Except costs, the costs shall be assessed under scale 2.
Uncontested foreclosure proceedings 6.
In a proceeding under rule 50, uncontested at the hearing on any Issue except costs, the costs shall be assessed under scale 2.
Increased costs 7.
(1) where the court determines that for any reason there would be an Unjust result if costs were assessed under scales 1 to 5, the court May, at any time before the assessment has been completed, order That costs be assessed as increased costs under subsection (2).
(2) where costs are ordered to be assessed as increased costs, the Assessing officer shall fix the fees that would have been allowed if An order for special costs had been made under rule 57 (2), and Shall then allow 1/2 of those fees, or a higher or lower proportion As the court may order, together with all proper expenses and Disbursements.
Default judgment and process for execution 8.
(1) where judgment is entered upon default of appearance or of Pleading, the costs shall be in accordance with schedule 1.
(2) where a writ of execution or garnishing order, or process in Forms 51 to 53, is issued, the costs shall be endorsed on the Process and allowed in accordance with schedule 2, instead of item 32.
(3) the amount involved under subsection (1) is the amount for which The judgment is entered.
(4) the amount involved under subsection (2) is the amount payable, If any, that is endorsed on the process.
(5) in addition to the fees set out in schedules 1 and 2, the costs Of any application to the court relating to the process for Execution may be ordered to be assessed under the tariff.
Schedule 1
Item
1. where the amount involved is (a) less than $5 000....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
$100 (b) $5 000 or more, but less than $10 000.....................................................................................................................................................................................
125 (c) $10 000 or more, but less than $20 000...................................................................................................................................................................................
175 (d) $20 000 or more, but less than $30 000...................................................................................................................................................................................
225 (e) $30 000 or more, but less than $40 000...................................................................................................................................................................................
275 (f) $40 000 or more, but less than $50 000....................................................................................................................................................................................
325 (g) $50 000 or more, but less than $60 000...................................................................................................................................................................................
375 (h) more than $60 000................................................................................................................................................................................................................
400 2. where no amount is Involved....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
200 3. and in addition, disbursements.
Schedule 2
Item
1. where the amount involved is (a) less than $5 000..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
$20 (b) $5 000 or more, but less than $10 000...................................................................................................................................................................................
30 (c) $10 000 or more, but less than $20 000..................................................................................................................................................................................
40 (d) $20 000 or more, but less than $30 000.................................................................................................................................................................................
55 (e) $30 000 or more, but less than $40 000.................................................................................................................................................................................
70 (f) $40 000 or more, but less than $50 000..................................................................................................................................................................................
85 (g) $50 000 or more, but less than $60 000..................................................................................................................................................................................
100 (h) ore than $60 000................................................................................................................................................................................................................
110 2. where no amount is Involved..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
60 3. and in addition, disbursements.
Tariff
Item
Description
Units
Instructions and investigations 1 Correspondence, conferences, instructions, investigations or Negotiations by a party relating to a proceeding, whether Before or after commencement, for which provision is not made Elsewhere in this tariff.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 2 Instructions to an agent to appear at a trial, hearing, Application, examination, reference, inquiry, assessment, or Other analogous proceeding, where necessary or proper, and Where held more than 40 km from the place where the Instructing solicitor carries on business.
1 Pleadings
3 All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this Tariff, for commencing and prosecuting a proceeding.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 4 All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this Tariff, for defending a proceeding, and for commencing and Prosecuting a counterclaim.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 5 All process for which provision is not made elsewhere in this Tariff for commencing and prosecuting or defending a third Party proceeding.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 6 Defence to counterclaim and, where necessary, reply.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 Discovery
7 Process for obtaining discovery and inspection of documents.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 8 Process for giving discovery and inspection of documents.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 9 Process for delivering interrogatories.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 10 Process for answering interrogatories.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 11 Process for obtaining admissions of fact where obtained or Made.
Minimum
Maximum
1 3 12 Making admission of facts.
Minimum
Maximum
1 5 13 Preparation of accounts, statement of property or financial Information where required by enactment or by order of court.
Minimum
Maximum
1 3 Examinations
14 Preparation for examination of a person coming under item 15 (a) by party conducting examination.
(b) by party being examined.
5 3 15 Attendance on examination of a person for discovery, on Affidavit, upon a subpoena to debtor, or in aid of execution, Or of a person before trial under rule 28 or 38, or any other Analogous proceeding, for each day (a) by party conducting examination.
(b) by party being examined.
8 6 Applications, hearings and conferences 16 Preparation for an application or other matter referred to in Item 17, for each day of hearing where hearing commenced.
5 17 Interlocutory application or other application for which Provision is not made elsewhere in this tariff, and reference To or inquiry, assessment or accounting, or hearing before, or On appeal from, a master, registrar or special referee, with Or without witnesses and whether before or after judgment, for Each day.
8 18 Preparation for an application or other matter referred to in Item 19, for each day of hearing where hearing commenced.
5 19 Hearing of proceeding including originating application, Special case, proceeding on a point of law, interpleader or Any other analogous proceeding, and applications for judgment Under rules 18,18a and 31 (6), for each day.
8 20 Preparation for attendance referred to in item 21, for each Day of attendance.
2 21 Attendance before a registrar to settle an order or to assess Costs, for each day.
6 22 Preparation for attendance referred to in item 23, for each Day of attendance 5 23 Attendance at a pre-trial, or settlement conference or a Mini-trial, for each day.
Minimum
Maximum
1 8 Trial
24 Preparation for trial, if proceeding set down for trial (a) for each day of trial where trial commenced.
(b) where trial not commenced.
Minimum
Maximum
5 1 5 25 Attendance at trial of proceeding or of an issue in a Proceeding, for each day.
9 26 Written argument where requested or ordered by the court.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 27 Attendance at the court for trial or hearing where party is Ready to proceed and when trial or hearing not commenced.
3 28 Attendance to speak to trial or hearing list.
1 Attendance at registry 29 Process for payment into or out of court.
1 30 Process for setting down proceeding for trial or hearing.
1 31 Process relating to entry of an order or a certificate of Costs when item 21 does not apply.
3 32 All process, for which provision is not made elsewhere in this Tariff, relating to execution upon or enforcement of an order, Exclusive of any application to the court.
1 Miscellaneous
33 Conduct of sale where property sold by order of court.
Minimum
Maximum
1 10 34 Negotiations and process for settlement, discontinuance, or Dismissal by consent of any proceeding if settled, Discontinued, or dismissed by consent as a result of the Negotiations.
5 35 Making an offer to settle, or giving notice of payment into Court under rule 38.
1 36 Travel by a solicitor to attend at any trial, hearing, Application, examination, reference, inquiry, assessment, or Other analogous proceeding where held more than 40 km from the Place where the solicitor carries on business, for each day Upon which solicitor travels.
2 In addition, reasonable travelling and subsistence expenses Shall be allowed as a disbursement.
Appendix c Schedule 1
Fees payable to the crown ( Unless otherwise provided by statute ) $ In the court of appeal 1.
For filing a notice of appeal or a notice of an application For leave to appeal 100.00 2.
For filing an application to the court of appeal or a justice Of the court of appeal 50.00 3.
For filing a certificate of readiness 100.00 4.
For hearing an appeal, payable by the party who files the Certificate of readiness, unless the court orders payment by Another party, per day or part thereof after the first day 100.00 In the supreme court of british columbia 5.
For commencing a proceeding in the supreme court not being an Appeal under rule 53 (6) or an application pursuant to section 71, 72, 74 or 78 of the Legal profession act 100.00 6.
For filing an interlocutory application whether by motion or Praecipe, or any other application for which a fee is not Payable under this schedule 20.00 7.
For filing a notice of trial or hearing where proceedings are Set down on the trial list 100.00 8.
For hearing a proceeding set down on the trial list, payable By the party who files the notice of trial or hearing, unless The court orders payment by another party, for time spent After the first day (a) per half day or less 50.00 (b) per day or any period less than a day but more than a half Day
100.00 9.
Filing of a written agreement as provided for in section 74.1 Of the Family relations act 20.00 Masters, registrars and special referees 10.
For filing an appointment for a hearing before a master, Registrar or special referee for an inquiry, assessment or Accounting, or to review a solicitor's bill under the Legal profession act , or upon a reference from a court but not including a Hearing, inquiry or reference under the Court order enforcement act 15.00 11.
For filing a certificate of the registrar under section 73 of The
Legal profession act 10.00 Probate, administration and resealing 12.
In addition to the fee payable under item 5, for every grant Or ancillary grant of probate and administration, and on every Resealing under the Probate recognition act , but not on a grant de bonis non, a cessate grant, or a Double probate, for each $1 000 or part thereof by which the Gross value of all the real and personal property of the Deceased situated in the province which passes to the personal Representative exceeds $25 000, whether disclosed to the court Before or after the grant is issued or resealed, the sum of 4.00 No fee is payable under item 5 or this item to file for and Obtain a grant of letters probate or administration where a Person dies leaving an estate not exceeding $10 000 in value.
The fee payable under this item or item 5 shall be calculated On the values deposed to by or on behalf of a personal Representative in the statement of assets, liabilities and Distribution exhibited to the affidavit leading to the grant As required by the rules of court.
13.
For filing a caveat 50.00 14.
For issuing a citation 15.00 Enforcement and execution For issuing a writ of execution, or a garnishing order before Or after judgment, not including an application to the court 15.00 16.
For issuing a subpoena to debtor 25.00 Generally, in any court 17.
For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court Except where 10.00 (a) the deponent swears the affidavit in the course of his Duties as a peace officer or as an agent or officer of the Province, or (b) the affidavit is sworn for the purpose of enforcing a Maintenance or support order 18.
For a search of a record, other than a search of a record of a Proceeding by a party to that proceeding or his solicitor 2.00 19.
For copies, per page 0.30 20.
For typing, per page 2.00 21.
For
(a) a certified copy of a document of record (i) for 10 pages or less 10.00 (ii) for each additional page over 10 pages, per page 2.00 (b) issuing a certificate of judgment 10.00 (c) issuing a lis pendens or certificate not otherwise Provided for 10.00 22.
For each payment into or out of court, except in a proceeding To which item 1, 5 or 6 applies 15.00 23.
For rental of a room for examination for discovery, per day 25.00 Notwithstanding anything in this schedule, no fee is payable To the crown by a person to commence, defend or continue a Proceeding if the court, on summary application before or After the commencement of the proceeding, finds that the Person is indigent unless the court considers that the claim Or defence (a) discloses no reasonable claim or defence as the case may Be,
(b) is scandalous, frivolous or vexatious, or (c) is otherwise an abuse of the process of the court.
Schedule 2
Fees payable to the sheriff $ 1.
For service (a) receiving, filing, serving on one person and returning any Process together with an affidavit of service or attempted Service
35.00 (b) each additional party served at the same address 5.00 (c) each additional party served not at the same address 10.00 2.
For arrest or execution on goods and chattels (a) every arrest, execution or similar writ or order 100.00 (b) attending, investigating, inventorying, cataloguing, Taking possession, preparing for sale, per hour for each Person involved 40.00 (c) commission on the sum realized or settled for (i) where that sum is $5 000 or less 10% (ii) where that sum is more than $5 000 but is less than $100 000 $500 plus 2 1/2% On the amount in Excess of $5 000 (iii) where that sum is $100 000 or over $2 875 plus 1% On the amount in Excess of $100 000 3.
For lien and recovery actions (a) executing a lien other than a repairer's lien or for Recovering specific property other than land where the Execution or recovery is accomplished in whole or in part 150.00 (b) attending, investigating, inventorying, cataloguing, Taking possession, per hour for each person involved 40.00 4.
For sale or possession of land (a) executing order for sale or possession of land, in part or In whole 150.00 (b)commission on the sum realized or settled for, on the sale Of land (i) where that sum is $5 000 or less 10% (ii) where that sum is more than $5 000 but is less than $100 000 $500 plus 2 1/2% Of the amount in Excess of $5 000 (iii) where that sum is $100 000 or over $2 875 plus 1% Of the amount in Excess of $100 000 5.
For arrest of ships (a) for every warrant or order to arrest a ship, including Release
150.00 (b) for each person in possession, per hour 40.00 6.
For a search made by a sheriff including the certificate of Result
10.00 7.
For taking or swearing an affidavit for use in the court Except where the deponent swears the affidavit in the course Of his duties as a peace officer or as an agent or officer of The province 10.00 8.
In respect of each of the foregoing items except item 1 the Sheriff shall be paid 40¢ for each kilometre travelled beyond A radius of 16 km from the sheriff's office or court registry Nearest to the place where service is effected, whichever is Closer.
9.
In respect of each of the foregoing items, all disbursements Properly incurred.
Schedule 3
Fees payable to witnesses $ 1.
For each day travelling to and from or attending to give Evidence
20.00 2.
For attendance on examination for discovery or deposition Examination
5.00 3.
Travel allowance, where the hearing or examination is held at A place (a) Within 200 km by road (including any ferry route within the Provincial road system) of where the witness resides, 30¢ per Km each way by road between his or her residence and the place Of hearing or examination; provided that no travel allowance Shall be made if the distance by road between that residence And the place of hearing or examination is less than 8 km.
This allowance includes ferry fares and road tolls; (b) More than 200 km from where the witness resides, the minimum Return air fare by scheduled airline plus 30¢ per km each way From his or her residence to the departure airport and from The arrival airport to the place of hearing or examination.
4.
A reasonable allowance for meal expenses made necessary by the Witness— attendance, and where the witness resides elsewhere Than the place of hearing or examination and is required to Remain overnight, a reasonable allowance for overnight Accommodation.
5.
A reasonable sum shall be allowed for the time employed and Expenses incurred by the witness in preparing to give Testimony.