"point in time" regulation content Health professions act Psychologists regulation B.c. reg. 442/99 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 270/2008, effective october 17, 2008.
B.c. reg. 442/99 O.c. 1772/99 Deposited december 17, 1999 Effective january 1, 2000 Health professions act Psychologists regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "practice of psychology" Includes, for a fee or reward, monetary or otherwise, (a) the provision, to individuals, groups, organizations or The public, of any service involving the application of Principles, methods and procedures of understanding, predicting And influencing behaviour, including the principles of learning, Perception, motivation, thinking, emotion and interpersonal Relationships,
(b) the application of methods and procedures of Interviewing, counselling, psychotherapy, behaviour therapy, Behaviour modification, hypnosis or research, or (c) the construction, administration and interpretation of Tests of mental abilities, aptitudes, interests, opinions, Attitudes, emotions, personality characteristics, motivations and Psychophysiological characteristics, and the assessment or Diagnosis of behavioural, emotional and mental disorder.
Designation
2 (1)  psychology is designated as a health profession.
(2)  the "college of psychologists of british columbia" is The name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Act to regulate the practice of psychology.
Reserved titles 3 (1)  no person other than a registrant may use the title "registered psychological associate", "psychological associate", "registered psychologist", "psychologist", a title, description or Words incorporating the word "psychology", "psychological" or "psychologist", or other terms implying training, experience or Expertise as a psychologist.
(2)  despite subsection (1) a person who is not a registrant May use the title "psychologist", and a society whose members are Not registrants may incorporate the words "psychology", "psychological" or "psychologist" in their title or designation, If that person is, or the members of that society are, (a) practising the profession in the course of the person's Employment with a board or council under the Health authorities act Or with a community health services society, designated by the Minister for the purposes of this paragraph, incorporated under The
Society act , (b) teaching, lecturing or engaging in research as a Psychologist if those activities are carried out by reason of, and In the course of, duties under an academic appointment or program In a university as defined by the University act , or (c) acting in the course of employment by (i)  a provincial, federal or municipal government or Government agency, (ii)  an authority as defined in the Independent school act , (iii)  a francophone education authority as defined in the School act , or (iv)  a board of school trustees constituted under the School act , If qualifications in psychology are a condition of such Employment.
[am. b.c. regs. 377/2002; 153/2007.] Scope of practice 4 A registrant may practise psychology.
Patient relations program 5 The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) Of the act.
[provisions of the Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: sections 12 and 55]