"point in time" regulation content Workers compensation act Industrial health and safety regulation B.c. reg. 585/77 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 312/2004, effective january 1, 2005.
B.c. reg. 585/77 W.c.b.
Filed december 14, 1977 Effective january 1, 1978 Workers compensation act Industrial health and safety regulation Section 2 — application of regulations [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Scope of application or regulations 2.02 These regulations apply to all employers, workers and all other Persons working in or contributing to the production of any Industry within the scope of part 3 of the Workers compensation act And within the inspectional jurisdiction of the board.
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 4.] Absence of specific regulations 2.04 Notwithstanding the absence of a specific regulation, all Employment and work shall be carried out without undue risk of Injury or industrial disease to any person subject to these Regulations.
Conflict with codes and standards 2.06 If any conflict should appear between these regulations, or the First aid regulations, and any code or standard with which Compliance is required by these regulations, the provisions of These regulations or the first aid regulations shall prevail over Any conflicting provision of such code or standard.
Repealed
2.08-2.10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 5.] Prompt compliance 2.12 Every person to whom an order or directive is issued by the board Shall comply forthwith or so soon thereafter as the order or Directive shall provide.
[en. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 6.] Inspection reports 2.14 (1)  an inspection report shall remain posted for a minimum Of 7 days.
(2)  where a joint committee or a worker health and safety Representative is required at a workplace, the employer shall Produce for the committee or representative the inspection report Or a copy thereof at or before the next meeting of the committee Or with the representative.
[en. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 7.] Contravention of regulations 2.16 (1)  contravention of a regulation shall be deemed to be a Contravention by the employer and shall make that employer liable For the penalty prescribed by the Workers compensation act , but nothing in this clause shall relieve the supervisor or Worker.
(2)  contravention of a regulation by a supervisor or a Worker shall be deemed to be a contravention by the supervisor and Shall make that supervisor liable for the penalty prescribed, but Nothing in this clause shall relieve the worker.
(3)  contravention of a regulation by a worker shall make That worker liable for the penalty prescribed.
(4)  contravention of a regulation by a person working in or Contributing to the production of an industry within the scope of The
Workers compensation act , being neither an employer nor a worker, shall make that person Liable for the penalty prescribed.
[en. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 8.] "notice to workers" placard 2.18 Every employer shall cause to be kept posted in a conspicuous Place at each workplace, any placard or notice issued by the board Which is headed by the words "notice to workers".
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 9.] Repealed
2.20 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 10.] Section 4 — occupational health and safety programs [see b.c. reg. 340/97] General requirements General requirements 4.02 (1)  an occupational health and safety program as outlined in Clause (5) shall be initiated and maintained by each employer Having
(a) a work force of 20 or more workers, in an industry Classified as "a" or "b" hazard by the board's first aid Regulations, or (b) a work force of 50 or more workers in an industry Classified as "c" hazard by the board's first aid regulations.
(2)  notwithstanding the foregoing, an occupational health And safety program may be required when, in the opinion of a board Officer, such a program is necessary.
(3)  in any operation where the work force is less than that Referred to in clause (1) the employer shall initiate and maintain A less formal program based on regular monthly meetings with Employees for discussion of health and safety matters. the Meetings shall be directed to matters concerning the correction of Unsafe conditions and practices and the maintenance of cooperative Interest in the safety of the work force. the employer shall Maintain a record of the meetings and the matters discussed.
(4)  repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 12 (i).] (5)  the occupational health and safety program shall be Designed to prevent injuries and occupational diseases. without Limiting the generality of the foregoing, the program shall Include:
(a) a statement of the employer's aims and the Responsibilities of the employer, supervisors and workers; (b) provision for the regular inspection of premises, Equipment, work methods and work practices, at appropriate Intervals, to ensure that prompt action is undertaken to correct Any hazardous conditions found, as required by regulation 8.08; (c) appropriate written instructions to supplement the Board's industrial health and safety regulation. copies of the Instructions shall be available for reference by all employees; (d) provision for holding periodic management meetings for The purpose of reviewing health and safety activities and incident Trends, and for the determination of necessary courses of action; (e) provision for the prompt investigation of incidents to Determine the action necessary to prevent their recurrence; (f) the maintenance of records and statistics, including Reports of inspections and incident investigations, with provision For making this information available to the joint committee or The worker health and safety representative, as applicable and Upon request, to an officer of the board, the union representing The workers at the workplace or, where there is no union, the Workers at workplace; (g) repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 12 (g).] (h) provision by the employer for the instruction and Supervision of workers in the safe performance of their work.
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 12.] Repealed
4.04-4.06 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 13.] Section 6 — incident investigation reports [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Repealed
6.02-6.04 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 15.] Incident investigation reports 6.06 The employer shall ensure that an incident investigation report Required by division 10 of part 3 of the Workers compensation act Contains
(a) the place, date and time of the incident, (b) the names and job titles of persons injured in the Incident
1 , (c) the names of witnesses, (d) a brief description of the incident, (e) a statement of the sequence of events which preceded the Incident,
(f) identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or Procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident, (g) recommended corrective actions to prevent similar Incidents, and (h) the names of the persons who investigated the incident.
[am. b.c. regs. 374/79, s. 6; 187/99, s. 16.] Repealed
6.08-6.10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 17.] Section 8 — workplaces — general requirements [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Scope
8.00 This section contains regulations which are common to all Workplaces.
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 18.] Maintenance and safe premises and operations Strength of structures and equipment 8.02 (1)  the employer shall ensure that (a) machinery and equipment are capable of safely performing The functions for which they are used, and (b) all buildings and permanent and temporary structures are Capable of withstanding any stresses likely to be imposed upon Them.
(2)  except as provided elsewhere in these regulations, the Safe working load of any equipment shall be that specified by the Manufacturer.
(3)  the safe working load shall be certified by a registered Professional engineer where (a) the manufacturer's specification or other acceptable Warranty cannot be produced, (b) the equipment has been modified in a manner which will Change its safe working load, (c) wear, corrosion, damage or signs of fatigue are found Which may reduce the safe working load, (d) the equipment is used in a manner or for purposes other Than that for which it was originally designed, when such use will Change the safe working load, or (e) in the opinion of the board, the provision of such Certification is deemed to be necessary.
Maintenance of safe work conditions 8.04 All buildings, excavations, structures, machinery, equipment, Tools and workplaces shall be maintained in such condition that Workers will not be endangered.
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 18.] Re-assembled equipment or structures 8.06 When any equipment or structure is dismantled in whole or in part, And subsequently re-assembled, it shall not be used until Completely checked and found to be safe for operation or use.
Inspection of workplaces 8.08 (1)  every employer shall ensure that regular inspections are Made of all workplaces, including buildings, structures, grounds, Excavations, tools, equipment, machinery and work methods and Practices. such inspections shall be made at intervals that will Prevent the development of unsafe working conditions.
(2)  machinery, tools and equipment shall be inspected in Accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations or as otherwise Specified by the relevant sections of these regulations.
(3)  special inspections shall be made when required by Malfunction or accident.
(4)  inspections required by clause (1) and major inspections Required by clause (3) shall, where feasible, include the Participation of members of the joint committee or worker health And safety representative, as applicable. where there is no joint Committee or worker health and safety representative, the employer Shall designate an employer representative and the union shall Designate a worker representative. where there is no union the Employer shall invite the workers to designate one of their Number.
(5)  unsafe or harmful conditions found in the course of such Inspections shall be remedied without delay.
[am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 19.] Correction of unsafe conditions 8.10 Whenever a person observes what appears to be an unsafe or harmful Condition or act he shall report it as soon as possible to a Supervisor or to the employer. the person receiving the report Shall investigate the reported unsafe condition or act and shall Ensure that any necessary corrective action is taken without Delay.
Exposure to imminent danger 8.12 Where emergency action is required to correct a condition which Constitutes an immediate threat to workers only those qualified And properly instructed workers necessary to correct the unsafe Condition shall be exposed to the hazard. every possible effort Shall be made to control the hazard while this is being done.
Provision and use of clothing and protective equipment 8.14 (1)  every worker shall equip himself with clothing suitable For protection against the natural elements to which the workers May be exposed, and, where required by these regulations, with Gloves, safety headgear and safety footwear.
(2)  every employer shall equip each worker, at no cost to The worker, with respiratory, fall-arresting, buoyancy, eye and Hearing protective devices, foot guards and other specialized Protective garments and equipment, where required by these Regulations.
(3)  every employer shall ensure that all safeguards, safety Appliances and devices, including personal protective equipment Necessary for the protection of workers, are available and are Used by the workers.
(4)  nothing in this regulation precludes or alters a future Or existing agreement or arrangement between a worker or workers And an employer to the effect that the employer will be Responsible for the provision, either at no cost to the worker or At some cost to the worker, of any or all of the items described In clause (1).
Circumvention of safeguards 8.16 No person shall intentionally remove, impair, or render Ineffective any safeguard provided for the protection of workers.
Repealed
8.18-8.20 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 20.] Equipment and work processes Authorized operation of machinery and equipment 8.22 Machinery and equipment shall be operated only by authorized Persons. no person shall be authorized who has not been adequately Instructed and trained, and who has not demonstrated an ability to Operate safely the machinery or equipment.
Work restrictions 8.24 (1)  no person shall carry out or cause to be carried out any Work process or operate or cause to be operated any tool, Appliance or equipment when that person has reasonable cause to Believe that to do so would create an undue hazard to the health Or safety of any person.
(2)  pursuant to clause (1) a worker who refuses to carry out A work process or operate a tool, appliance or equipment shall Forthwith report the circumstances of the unsafe condition to his Supervisor or employer.
(3)  the supervisor or employer receiving a report made under Clause (2) shall forthwith investigate the matter and (a) ensure that any unsafe condition is remedied without Delay, or (b) if in his opinion the report is not valid he shall so Inform the person who made the report.
(4)  when the procedure under clause (3) does not resolve the Matter and a worker continues to refuse to carry out a work Process, the supervisor or employer shall investigate the matter In the presence of the worker who made the report and in the Presence of (a) a worker representative of the joint committee, (b) a worker who is selected by a trade union representing The worker, or (c) when there is no joint committee or the worker is not Represented by a trade union, any other reasonably available Worker selected by the worker.
(5)  when the investigation under clause (4) does not resolve The matter and a worker continues to refuse to carry out a work Process or operate a tool, appliance or equipment, both the Supervisor, or the employer, and the worker shall forthwith notify An officer of the board who shall investigate the matter without Undue delay and issue whatever orders he deems necessary.
(6)  no worker shall be subject to the discriminatory action As defined in section 150 of the Workers compensation act Because he has acted in compliance with this regulation or an Order made by an officer of the board.
(7)  temporary assignment to alternative work at no loss in Pay to the worker until the matter in clause (1) is resolved shall Be deemed not to constitute discriminatory action.
(8)  materials, articles or objects to be manually lifted, Carried or moved shall be lifted, carried or moved in such a Manner and with such precautions and safeguards, including Training, protective clothing, and mechanical aids, as will ensure That the process does not endanger the health and safety of any Worker.
[en. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 7; am. b.c. reg. 187/99, s. 21.] Putting equipment into operation 8.26 Before any equipment or machinery is put into operation the person Responsible for doing so shall ensure that:
(a) all safeguards and air contaminant controls required by These regulations are in place and functioning, and (b) no person will be endangered by putting the equipment or Machinery into operation.
Impaired persons Physical and mental impairments 8.28 Workers with physical or mental impairment shall not be assigned To work where such impairment endangers themselves or others.
Impairment by alcohol, drug or other substance 8.30 No person shall enter or remain or be permitted to remain on the Premises of any place of employment while his ability to work is So affected by alcohol, drug or other substance as to endanger his Health or safety or that of any other person.
Men working alone Checking worker's well-being 8.32 Where a worker is employed under conditions which present a Significant hazard of disabling injury, and when the worker might Not be able to secure assistance in the event of injury or other Misfortunes, the employer shall provide a means of periodically Checking the well-being of the worker. checks shall be made at Such intervals and by such means as are appropriate to the nature, Hazard and circumstances of the employment.
Improper conduct Improper conduct 8.34 No person shall engage in any improper activity or behaviour that Might create or constitute a hazard to himself or any other Worker. for the purpose of this regulation, improper activity or Behavior includes "horseplay", scuffling, fighting, practical Jokes, unnecessary running or jumping, or similar conduct.
Access to and egress from work areas Access to work area 8.36 All places where work is performed shall have safe means of access And egress appropriate to the conditions of the work area, and Workers shall not use any other means, if these means are Hazardous.
Arrangement of work area 8.38 (1)  work areas shall be arranged to allow the safe movement Of workers, equipment and materials.
(2)  wherever practicable, aisles and passageways in work and In storage areas shall be clearly delineated by floor markings.
Such markings shall be maintained in a clearly visible condition.
Provision for emergency escape 8.40 (1)  emergency means of escape shall be provided from any Work area in which the malfunctioning of work processes could Create an immediate danger to workers, and where regular means of Exit could be rendered dangerous or unusable.
(2)  emergency exits shall be designed and marked to provide Quick and unimpeded exit. periodic emergency drills shall be held To ensure awareness of the availability of such exits.
Door installations 8.42 (1)  doors shall not open directly onto stairways, but shall Open onto floors or landings having a width in excess of the swing Of the doors.
(2)  double-acting swing doors shall be designed and Installed to permit an adequate view through the doors.
(3)  transparent glass doors, and glass panels, extending to Less than 12 inches (30 cm) from the floor, which could be Mistaken for doorways, shall be constructed of laminated, tempered Or wired safety glass, meeting the current requirements of the National building code of canada.
(4)  this regulation does not apply where the glass is fitted With bars, or other devices or markings, which clearly indicate The presence and position of such doors and panels.
Illumination
Illumination requirements 8.44 Adequate illumination shall be provided in all working areas, in Accordance with the requirements of section 13 of these Regulations.
Restricted visibility Restricted visibility 8.46 Workers shall not be permitted to work where the visibility within A work area is restricted by the presence of smoke, steam or other Substances in the atmosphere, to the extent that it might result In workers being injured, unless safe means of communication are Provided.
High temperature hazards High temperature hazards 8.48 (1)  open flames, steam pipes, steam hot water jets and other High temperature sources shall be positioned or shielded to Prevent contact by workers, unless the exposed sources are Necessary to the work process.
(2)  where such sources are necessarily unshielded, exposed Workers shall wear suitable personal protective equipment, in Accordance with the requirements of section 14.
Housekeeping
Slipping and tripping hazards 8.50 Floors, platforms, stairs and walkways used by workers shall be Maintained in a state of good repair and shall be kept free of Tripping and slipping hazards.
Spillage of liquids 8.52 Where the work process results in the spillage of liquids on the Floors of work areas and where this spillage could create a Slipping or other hazard, floor drains shall be installed, or Other suitable means adopted to control this hazard.
Removal of waste materials 8.54 Refuse, spills and waste materials shall not be allowed to Accumulate so as to constitute a hazard.
Use of compressed air for cleaning 8.56 (1)  compressed air or steam shall not be used for blowing Dust, chips, or other substances, from equipment, materials and Structures, if any person could be exposed to the jet, or to the Material expelled or propelled thereby, or if a fire, explosion or Other injury or health hazard is likely to result.
(2)  subject to clause (3) compressed air shall not be used For blowing harmful or hazardous dusts or other harmful substances From clothing being worn by workers. where such clothing is Cleaned prior to leaving the work area, suitable cleaning Equipment shall be used.
(3)  compressed air may be used in specially designated areas For blowing dusts or other substances from clothing being worn by Workers, provided that (a) the substances have an exposure limit greater than 1.0 Mg/m 3 As established under section 5.48 of the occupational health and Safety regulation, and (b) appropriate eye protection is worn, and (c) the compressed air supply is limited to 10 psig (69 Kpag), or (d) safety nozzles which have the same pressure limiting Effect are used.
[am. b.c. reg. 315/2003, app. c, s. 1.] Storage of materials Materials stacked or stored 8.58 (1)  no material and equipment shall be so placed, stacked or Stored as to constitute a hazard to workers.
(2)  stacked materials or containers shall be stabilized when Necessary by interlocking, strapping or other effective means of Restraint.
Bulk-storage places 8.60 (1)  a worker must not enter any place where there is a Danger of entrapment in loose material, unless safe access has Been provided by catwalks, walkways, or other means, or unless the Worker is equipped with a safety belt and lifeline and is attended By another worker who is stationed, equipped and capable of Immediately effecting a rescue.
(2)  where the worker must be lifted through an opening of a Size that necessitates lifting in a vertical attitude, the worker Must wear a harness which will permit lifting in that manner. a Wrist harness alone is not acceptable for this purpose.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 1.] Protection against falling materials 8.62 The area in which materials may be dropped, dumped or spilled, Shall be barricaded and protected by warning signs, to prevent the Inadvertent entry of workers.
Handrails and guardrails Handrails on stairways 8.64 (1)  every flight of stairs having more than 4 risers shall Be equipped with handrails:
(a) on all open sides of stairways, and (b) on one side of enclosed stairways 44 inches (1.12 m) or Less in width, and (c) on both sides of enclosed stairways over 44 inches (1.12 M) in width.
(2)  the top of a handrail shall be at a height of 32 to 36 Inches (81 cm to 91 cm) 2 Above the stair tread, measured vertically from the nose of the Tread. the height shall not vary on any flight or succession of Flights of stairs.
(3)  handrails on open-sided stairways shall be fitted with Midrails located approximately equidistant from the top of the Handrail and the nose of the stair tread.
Detour guardrails at stairways 8.66 When a stairway ends in direct proximity to dangerous traffic or Other hazards, detour guardrails shall be installed.
Where standard guardrails shall be installed 8.68 (1)  guardrails shall be installed where any open-sided Floor, working platform, runway, walkway, or balcony is 4 feet (1.22 m) or more above grade or floor level.
(2)  guardrails shall be installed across glass panels, the Lower edges of which are less than 30 inches (76 cm) above the Levels of stair tread nosings, ramps, platforms, or landings.
(3)  clause (2) does not apply where laminated, wired, or Tempered glass is installed having strength equivalent to a Guardrail, as required by regulation 8.70 (2).
Specifications for standard guardrails 8.70 (1)  a standard guardrail shall consist of a top rail, Approximately 42 inches (107 cm) above the floor level, a Toe-board as required by regulation 8.78, and an intermediate rail Centered at approximately the midpoint of the space between the Underside of the top rail and the upper edge of the toe-board. the Top and intermediate rails and toe-board shall be supported by Vertical members spaced not more than 8 feet (2.44 m) apart. where The guardrails are of wooden construction the top rail shall be Securely fastened to the top of the upright or at the top of the Upright on the side facing the protected area and the intermediate Rail shall be securely fastened to the side facing the protected Area.
(2)  standard guardrails shall be designed to withstand a Static load of 200 pounds (890 n) applied in any direction at any Point on the top rail.
Guardrails around open tanks 8.72 When workers are employed around open tanks, 4 feet (1.22 m) or More in depth, or containing liquids or harmful substances, the Sides of the tanks shall be constructed to extend at least 42 Inches (107 cm) above any working platform, or standard guardrails Shall be provided to prevent workers from falling into the tanks.
Walkways over open tanks 8.74 Guardrails shall be installed on walkways over open tanks Containing harmful substances, or over open tanks 4 feet (1.22 m) Or more in depth.
Floor openings Floor openings 8.76 (1)  openings or pits in floors, roofs, walkways or work Areas accessible to workers, shall be securely covered or fitted With fixed, removable or collapsible guardrails conforming to the Requirements of regulation 8.70.
(2)  where compliance with this regulation is impracticable For vehicle service pits the perimeters shall be delineated by Paint of high visibility colour having a skid resistant surface.
Toe-boards, walkways, platforms and curbs Toe-board requirements 8.78 (1)  all floor openings, and all permanent walkways and Platforms 10 feet (3 m) or more above grade, shall be equipped With toe-boards.
(2)  walkways and platforms at any height, when installed Over machinery and work areas, shall be equipped with toe-boards.
(3)  the top of the toe-board shall be approximately 4 inches (10 cm) above the floor or platform, and the clearance between the Bottom of the toe-board and the floor or platform shall not exceed 1/2 inch (13 mm).
(4)  where materials are stored nearby, toe-boards shall be Increased in height or solid or mesh panels of appropriate height Shall be installed to prevent such material from falling.
Walkway specifications 8.80 Walkways shall not be less than 20 inches (50 cm) in width. safe Access to walkways shall be provided by means of fixed ladders or Stairways.
Elevated vehicular thoroughfares 8.82 Curbs shall be installed where practicable, wherever there is Danger of vehicles or other equipment running off the edge of an Elevated area.
Fire protection Equipment; training; special hazards 8.84 (1)  fire fighting equipment shall be maintained in Accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, or with the Instructions of the authority having jurisdiction.
3 (2)  all workers shall be given adequate instruction in those Fire prevention and emergency evacuation procedures that are Applicable to their place of employment.
(3)  workers who are assigned to fire fighting duties shall Be given adequate training in fire fighting procedures applicable To their place of employment.
(4)  local fire departments shall be informed of any special Fire hazards which are peculiar to the employer's premises.
[am. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 8.] Electrical hazards General requirements 8.86 Work on electrical installations and equipment and work in Proximity to energized electrical conductors shall be carried out In accordance with regulations 16.100 and 16.102 and with sections 22 and 24 of these regulations.
4 Protection of workers from violence in the workplace Definition of violence 8.88 Violence means the attempted or actual exercise by a person, other Than a worker, of any physical force so as to cause injury to a Worker, and includes any threatening statement or behaviour which Gives a worker reasonable cause to believe that the worker is at Risk of injury.
[en. b.c. reg. 266/93.] Risk assessment 8.90 (1)  a risk assessment shall be performed in any place of Employment in which a risk of injury to workers from violence Arising out of their employment may be present.
(2)  the risk assessment shall include the consideration of (a) previous experience in that place of employment, (b) occupational experience in similar places of employment, And
(c) the location and circumstances in which work will take Place.
[en. b.c. reg. 266/93.] Procedures and policies 8.92 Where a risk of injury to workers from violence is identified by An assessment performed under regulation 8.90 the employer shall (a) establish procedures, policies and work environment Arrangements to eliminate the risk to workers from violence, (b) where elimination of the risk to workers is not possible, Establish procedures, policies and work environment arrangements To minimize the risk to workers, and (c) establish procedures for reporting, investigating and Documenting incidents of violence in accordance with the Requirements of section 6.
[en. b.c. reg. 266/93.] Instruction of workers 8.94 (1)  the employer shall inform workers who may be exposed to The risk of violence of the nature and extent of the risk.
(2)  the duty to inform workers, in clause (1), includes a Duty to provide information related to the risk of violence from Persons who have a history of violent behaviour and whom workers Are likely to encounter in the course of their work.
(3)  the employer shall instruct workers who may be exposed To the risk of violence in (a) the means for recognition of the potential for violence, (b) the procedures, policies and work environment Arrangements which have been developed to minimize or effectively Control the risk to workers from violence, (c) the appropriate response to incidents of violence, Including how to obtain assistance, and (d) procedures for reporting, investigating and documenting Incidents of violence.
[en. b.c. reg. 266/93.] Response to incidents 8.96 (1)  incidents of violence shall be reported and investigated In accordance with the requirements of section 6.
(2)  the employer shall ensure that corrective actions are Taken in response to incidents of violence in accordance with the Requirements of regulations 6.08 and 8.10.
(3)  the employer shall ensure that a worker reporting an Injury or adverse symptom as a result of an incident of violence Is advised to consult a physician of the worker's choice for Treatment or referral.
[en. b.c. reg. 266/93.] Fall protection Definitions
8.100 In these regulations:
"anchor" Means a secure point of attachment for a lifeline or lanyard; "carabiner" Means a link with a gate that is normally closed or that Automatically closes, and is used to connect components of a Personal fall protection system; "control zone" Means the area between an unguarded edge of a building or Structure and a line which is set back a safe distance; "fall arrest system" Means a system that will stop a worker's fall before the worker Hits the surface below; "fall protection system" Means any of the following when used to protect a worker from a Fall or minimize the risk from falling:
(a) guardrails; (b) a safety belt or full body harness with a lanyard and/or Lifeline and an anchor, and their related equipment; (c) a safety net; (d) a control zone; (e) a safety monitor with a control zone; (f) other procedures acceptable to the board; "fall restraint system" Means a work positioning system to prevent a worker from falling From a work position, or a travel restriction system such as Guardrails or a personal fall protection system to prevent a Worker from travelling to an edge from which the worker could Fall;
"free fall distance" Means the distance from the point where the worker would begin to Fall to the point where the fall arrest system would begin to Cause deceleration of the fall; "full body harness" Means a body support device consisting of connected straps Designed to distribute a fall arresting force over at least the Thigh, shoulders and pelvis, with provision for attaching a Lanyard, lifeline or other components; "horizontal lifeline system" Means a system composed of a synthetic or wire rope, installed Horizontally between two anchors, to which a worker attaches a Personal fall protection system; "lanyard" Means a flexible line of webbing, or synthetic or wire rope, that Is used to secure a safety belt or full body harness to a lifeline Or anchor; "lifeline" Means a synthetic or wire rope, rigged from one or more anchors, To which a worker's lanyard or other part of a personal fall Protection system is attached; "personal fall protection system" Means an individual worker's fall protection system, composed of a Safety belt or full body harness, and lanyard, lifeline, and any Other connecting equipment, that is used to secure the worker to An individual anchor or to a horizontal lifeline system; "safety belt" Means a body support device consisting of a strap with a means for Securing it about the waist and attaching it to other components; "safety monitor system" Means a system in which a trained worker is designated to monitor Work activities in a control zone to ensure that work is done in a Manner that minimizes the potential for a worker to fall; "safety strap" Means a pole strap or similar support strap, used with a work Positioning suspension belt, for climbing trees or structures such As utility poles; "shock absorber" Means a device intended to limit deceleration of a worker during Fall arrest; "swing-fall hazard" Means the hazard to a worker of swinging and colliding with an Obstruction following a fall when connected to a lanyard or Lifeline that runs at an angle off vertical; "total fall distance" Means the distance from the point where the worker would begin to Fall to the point where the fall would be stopped; "unusual risk of injury" Means, with respect to the risk of injury from a fall, there is a Risk of injury greater than the risk of injury from impact on a Flat surface; for example, from a fall onto operating machinery or Into a tank of chemical.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] General requirements Obligation to use fall protection 8.102 (1)  unless elsewhere provided for in these regulations, the Employer must ensure a fall protection system is used when work is Being done at a place (a) from which a fall of 3 metres (10 feet) or more may Occur, or (b) where a fall from a lesser height involves an unusual Risk of injury.
(2)  the employer must ensure that guardrails or other Similar means of fall restraint are used when practicable.
(3)  when compliance with subsection (2) is not practicable, The employer must ensure that another fall restraint system is Used.
(4)  when the use of a fall restraint system is not Practicable, the employer must ensure that a fall arrest system is Used.
(5)  when the use of a fall arrest system is not practicable Or will result in a hazard greater than if the system was not Used, the employer must ensure (a) a control zone is used in accordance with these Regulations,
(b) a safety monitor system with a control zone is used in Accordance with these regulations, or (c) other procedures acceptable to the board are followed.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Fall protection plan 8.104 (1)  the employer must have a written fall protection plan For a workplace where (a) work is being done at a location where workers are not Protected by permanent guardrails, and from which a fall of 7.5 Metres (25 feet) or more may occur, (b) the employer uses a safety monitor and control zone or Other work procedures as the means of fall protection, or (c) the board so directs, because a fall may involve an Unusual risk of injury.
(2)  the fall protection plan must be available at the Workplace before work with a risk of falling begins.
(3)  the plan must specify (a) the fall hazards expected in each work area, (b) the fall protection system or systems to be used in each Area,
(c) the procedures to assemble, maintain, inspect, use and Disassemble the fall protection system or systems, and (d) the procedures for rescue of a worker who has fallen and Is suspended by a personal fall protection system or safety net, But is unable to effect self rescue.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Instruction of workers 8.106 Before a worker is allowed into an area where a risk of falling Exists, the employer must ensure the worker is instructed in the Fall protection system for the area and the procedures to be Followed.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Guardrails
Temporary removal 8.108 (1)  when a guardrail must be removed to accommodate work, (a) only that portion of the guardrail necessary to allow the Work to be done may be removed, and (b) workers exposed to a fall hazard must be protected by Another fall protection system when the guardrail is absent.
(2)  the guardrail must be replaced (a) when the unguarded area is left unattended, and (b) after the work is completed if the circumstances still Require guardrails.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Harnesses and safety belts Selection
8.110 (1)  a worker must wear a full body harness or other harness Acceptable to the board when using a personal fall protection System for fall arrest.
(2)  a worker must wear a safety belt, a full body harness or Other harness acceptable to the board when using a personal fall Protection system for fall restraint.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Standards
8.112 (1)  a full body harness must meet the requirements of Canadian standards association standard can/csa z259.10-m90, full Body harnesses, or other standard acceptable to the board.
(2)  a safety belt must meet the requirements of canadian Standards association standard z259.1-1995, safety belts and Lanyards or other standard, appropriate to the type of belt Involved, that is acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Connecting equipment Lanyards
8.114 (1)  a lanyard must meet the requirements of canadian Standards association standard can/csa-z259.1-1995, safety belts And lanyards or other standard acceptable to the board.
(2)  when a tool is used that could sever, abrade or burn a Lanyard or safety strap, the lanyard or safety strap must be made Of wire rope.
(3)  a worker working near an energized conductor or in Another work area where a conductive lanyard or safety strap Cannot be safely used, is exempt from subsection (2) provided that Two nonconductive lanyards or safety straps are used, or other Effective means of fall protection is used.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Snap hooks 8.116 A snap hook on a lanyard or lifeline must be self-locking.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Shock absorbers 8.118 (1)  a shock absorber must be used with (a) a lanyard made of wire rope or other inelastic material In a fall arrest system, and (b) a wire rope vertical lifeline unless the lifeline is part Of a ladder safety device.
(2)  a shock absorber in a personal fall protection system Must meet the requirements of canadian standards association Standard can/csa z259.11-m92, shock absorbers for personal fall Arrest systems, or other standard acceptable to the board.
(3)  when a shock absorber is used in a fall arrest system, Allowance must be made for the potential increase in the total Fall distance.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Carabiners
8.120 (1)  when in use, a carabiner or similar connecting hardware Must be secured to prevent inadvertent opening.
(2)  carabiners, links and rings must (a) have an ultimate load capacity of at least 22 kilonewtons (5 000 pounds), and (b) be clearly marked with their load capacity, and with a Means of identifying the manufacturer.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Other equipment 8.122 (1)  a descent device, harness, safety strap, rope grab, Shepherd's hook, connecting hardware, shock absorber and other Fall protection equipment used as part of a fall protection system And not covered by one of the standards referenced in these Regulations must be of a type acceptable to the board.
(2)  a prusik sling may be employed in place of a rope grab Only if it is used in a manner acceptable to the board.
(3)  a triple sliding hitch may not be used as part of a Personal fall protection system.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Anchors
General requirements 8.124 (1)  a lifeline, or a lanyard used without a lifeline, must Be secured to an anchor.
(2)  an anchor plate with multiple attachment points designed To support combinations of suspension lines, tie-back lines and Lifelines must be certified in writing by a professional engineer.
(3)  a temporary anchor must be removed upon completion of The work for which it was intended.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] For vertical lifelines — fall restraint 8.126 (1)  in a fall restraint system, a temporary anchor for a Vertical lifeline, or for a lanyard used without a lifeline, must Have an ultimate load capacity of at least 3.5 kilonewtons (800 Pounds) in any direction in which a load may be applied.
(2)  in a fall restraint system, a permanent anchor for a Vertical lifeline or for a lanyard used without a lifeline must Meet the requirements for a fall arrest anchor in regulation 8.128.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] For vertical lifelines — fall arrest 8.128 In a fall arrest system, an anchor for a vertical lifeline or for A lanyard used without a lifeline must (a) have an ultimate load capacity of at least 22 kilonewtons (5 000 pounds), in any direction required to resist a fall, and, (b) when permanent, be certified in writing by a professional Engineer as having the required load capacity.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Vertical lifelines Standards
8.130 A vertical lifeline must meet the requirements of canadian Standards association standard z259.2-m1979, fall arresting Devices, personnel lowering devices, and lifelines, or other Standard acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Rope strength 8.132 A vertical lifeline must have a breaking strength specified by the Manufacturer of at least 27 kilonewtons (6 000 pounds).
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Knots and splices 8.134 (1)  a vertical lifeline must be free of knots or splices Except at its termination.
(2)  a termination knot or splice must not reduce the Breaking strength of the lifeline to less than 22 kilonewtons (5 000 pounds).
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Prohibited use of wire rope 8.136 A wire rope vertical lifeline must not be used when there is Potential for contact with energized electrical conductors.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Protection against abrasion 8.138 (1)  a vertical lifeline must be effectively protected at Points of attachment and elsewhere, as necessary, to prevent Chafing or abrasion caused by contact with sharp or rough edges.
(2)  when a tool is used that could sever, abrade or burn a Lifeline, the lifeline must be made of wire rope.
(3)  a worker working near an energized electrical conductor Or in another work area where a conductive lifeline cannot be Safely used, is exempt from subsection (2) provided that another Effective means of fall protection is used.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Rope length 8.140 (1)  a vertical lifeline must extend to within 1.2 metres (4 Feet) of ground level or other safe lower surface.
(2)  the suspended length of a vertical lifeline must not Exceed 91 metres (300 feet), unless previously authorized by the Board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Free fall limits 8.142 (1)  a personal fall arrest system without a shock absorber Must limit the free fall of a worker to 1.2 metres (4 feet).
(2)  a personal fall arrest system with a shock absorber may Allow a free fall of up to 2 metres (6.5 feet), or the limit Specified in the manufacturer's instructions, whichever is less.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Swing-fall hazard 8.144 A vertical lifeline must be installed and used in a manner that Minimizes the swing-fall hazard.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Independent anchorage 8.146 Each vertical lifeline used for fall arrest must be secured to an Independent point of anchorage.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Number of workers 8.148 Only one worker may be attached to a vertical lifeline, unless the Vertical lifeline is part of a ladder safety device.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Ladder safety devices 8.150 A lifeline used as part of a ladder safety device must meet the Requirements of american national standards institute standard A14.3-1984-for ladders-fixed-safety requirements, or other Standard acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Double line systems 8.152 A double line system, where the lifeline and equipment suspension Line are rigged through a common control descent device, must not Be used unless the system and procedures for its use are Acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Horizontal lifeline systems Temporary systems for fall restraint 8.154 A temporary horizontal lifeline system for fall restraint must Provide an ultimate load capacity of at least 3.5 kilonewtons (800 Pounds) for each worker connected to it.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Temporary systems for fall arrest 8.156 Unless certified by a professional engineer in accordance with the Requirements for a permanent system as outlined in regulation 8.158, a temporary horizontal lifeline system used for fall arrest Must meet the following requirements:
(a) the horizontal lifeline must be a minimum 12 mm (1/2 Inch) diameter wire rope having a breaking strength specified by The manufacturer of at least 89 kilonewtons (20 000 pounds); (b) the horizontal lifeline must be free of splices except For the end terminations; (c) connecting hardware such as shackles and turnbuckles must Have an ultimate load capacity of at least 71 kilonewtons (16 000 Pounds);
(d) the span must be at least 6 metres (20 feet) and not more Than 18 metres (60 feet); (e) end anchors must have an ultimate load capacity of at Least 71 kilonewtons (16 000 pounds); (f) the horizontal lifeline must have an unloaded sag of Approximately the span length divided by 60; (g) the elevation of the line at any point must be at least 1 Metre (39 inches) above the working surface; (h) the free fall distance must be limited to 1.2 metres (4 Feet);
(i) a minimum of 3.5 metres (12 feet) of unobstructed Clearance must be available below the working surface; (j) no more than three workers may be secured to the Horizontal lifeline; (k) the horizontal lifeline must be positioned so it does not Impede the safe movement of workers.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Permanent systems 8.158 Before a permanent horizontal lifeline system is used the employer Must ensure that a professional engineer supplies to the workplace A signed and dated drawing and instructions for the lifeline System showing (a) the layout in plan and elevation, including anchor Locations, installation specifications, anchor design and Detailing,
(b) horizontal lifeline system specifications, including Permissible free fall distance, clearance to obstructions below, And rope size, breaking strength, termination details and initial Sag or tension, (c) the number of workers permitted to connect to the Lifeline, and maximum arrest force to each worker, and (d) written certification that the lifeline system has been Installed in accordance with the design documents.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Inspection and maintenance General requirement 8.160 Safety belts, harnesses, lanyards, lifelines, connecting hardware, Anchors and other similar devices must be (a) inspected by a qualified person before use on a Workshift,
(b) kept free from substances and conditions that could Contribute to their deterioration, and (c) maintained in good working order.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Removal from service 8.162 (1)  a device or part that is defective in condition or Function must be removed from service.
(2)  after a fall protection system has arrested the fall of A worker, it must (a) be removed from service, and (b) not be returned to service until it has been inspected And recertified for use by the manufacturer or its authorized Agent, or by a professional engineer.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Safety nets Standards
8.164 A safety net must be designed, installed, tested and inspected in Accordance with the requirements of american national standards Institute standard a10.11-1989, for construction and demolition Operations — personnel and debris nets, or other standard Acceptable to the board.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Supporting structures 8.166 The employer must ensure the supporting structure to which a Personnel safety net is attached is certified in writing by a Professional engineer as being capable of withstanding any load The net is likely to impose on the structure.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Exemption for firefighters 8.168 Regulations 8.164 and 8.166 do not apply to rescue nets used by Firefighters.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Control zones and procedures Prohibited use of control zones 8.170 Use of a control zone is not permitted as the fall protection System
(a) on a working surface where the slope of that surface Exceeds 4 vertical in 12 horizontal, or (b) on skeletal structure work, or (c) for scaffold erection and removal.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Width of the control zone 8.172 (1)  the width of the control zone must be at least 2 metres (6 1/2 feet).
(2)  additional distance must be added to the minimum width Of a control zone, with regard to whether (a) the working surface is slippery or sloped, (b) the work is carried out at an elevation relative to the Unguarded edge, and (c) the risk is increased by the use of equipment near the Control zone.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Work outside the control zone 8.174 When workers will at all times remain further from the unguarded Edge than the width of the control zone, no other fall protection System need be used.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Work near the control zone 8.176 (1)  if a worker will be working within 2 metres (6.5 feet) Of the control zone, the line defining the control zone must be Established by a raised warning line or other equally effective Means at all times during such work.
(2)  a raised warning line marking the edge of a control zone Must be (a) a line of high visibility material, or a line flagged or Clearly marked with high visibility materials at intervals not Exceeding 2 metres (6.5 feet), and (b) rigged and maintained to be between 0.85 and 1.15 metres (34 inches and 45 inches) above the working surface.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Safety monitor for work in the control zone 8.178 (1)  when permitted by regulation 8.102, a safety monitor System with a control zone may be used as the means of fall Protection for workers in the control zone.
(2)  the duty of the safety monitor is to ensure that the Work activity in the control zone is performed in accordance with The fall protection plan and in a manner that minimizes the Potential for a worker to fall.
(3)  a safety monitor must (a) be experienced in the work overseen and trained in the Role of safety monitor, (b) be present at all times when a worker is in the control Zone,
(c) have complete authority over the work as it relates to The prevention of falls, (d) engage in no other duties while acting as the safety Monitor,
(e) be located so as to have a clear view of the work, (f) be able to have normal voice communication with the Workers being protected, and (g) be instantly distinguishable from other workers.
(4)  only workers directly required for the work at hand may Be inside the control zone.
(5)  a safety monitor may monitor a maximum of 8 workers.
(6)  the fall protection plan for the workplace must specify The name of each safety monitor and contain a record of the Monitor's training for this role.
[en. b.c. reg. 7/96, s. 3.] Section 10
Repealed
10.00-10.18 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 11 — underwater diving [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Repealed
11.00-11.20 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Reports of diving accidents Accident/incident reports 11.22 (1)  an accident/incident report as required by regulation 6.06 shall be submitted to the board as soon as possible if the Following occurs during any diving operation:
(a) death; (b) injury; (c) convulsions or serious impairment of consciousness during Or after a dive; (d) decompression sickness requiring treatment; (e) air embolism; (f) any serious mishap, even though the diver escapes actual Injury, or a series of incidents which render equipment or Procedures suspect prior to, during, or after the diving Operation.
(2)  the facts shall be established with care and recorded as Soon after the accident/incident as possible and the report shall Include
(a) the dive profile, and (b) all relevant details, however remote.
(3)  in the event of any diving accident/incident (a) the board reserves the right to take temporary possession Of, and investigate, all equipment related to the diving Operation, and (b) the equipment shall not be tampered with or altered in Any manner until authorization has been received from the board.
Section 12
Repealed
12.01-12.25 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 13 — health hazards and work environment controls [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Repealed
13.01-13.17 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Blanking requirements 13.19 (1)  before a worker enters a confined space (a) piping containing hazardous substances or substances Under pressure or so located as to allow hazardous substances to Enter such space shall be disconnected, blanked or blinded off, or (b) where it is impractical to employ blanks or blinds, as in Welded piping systems 5 , written work procedures shall be developed and implemented to Ensure equivalent protection to all workers exposed to the hazard, And
(c) the closing of a valve on any line will not be accepted As a substitute for blanking or blinding.
(2)  when blanking or blinding a piping system, blanks or Blinds shall be of sufficient strength and so installed as to Provide adequate safety for the particular conditions of Anticipated pressure, temperature and service.
(3)  visual indication that a blank or blind has been Installed shall be provided at the point of installation.
(4)  when required, gaskets shall be installed on the Pressure side of blanks or blinds and flanges shall be tightened To make the blanks or blinds effective.
(5)  where threaded lines are used threaded plugs or caps Shall be used to blank the lines.
(6)  records shall be kept which identify the blanked lines And the locations of blanks or blinds.
Repealed
13.21-13.35 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 8/96, s. 1.] Repealed
13.37-13.73 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Lighting requirements 13.77 Illumination in industrial, commercial and retail establishments Shall be in compliance with the occupational environment Regulations made under the Factories act , 1966 6 As amended by order-in-council 722, approved and ordered february 26, 1974, published in the gazette as b.c. reg. 128/74.
Emergency lighting 13.79 (1)  where failure of the regular lighting system would Create conditions dangerous to the health and safety of the Workers, an emergency lighting system shall be provided for the Workplace and the exit routes.
(2)  emergency lighting systems shall provide dependable Illumination to enable the carrying out of all emergency measures Including
(a) emergency shutdown procedures, and (b) evacuation of all workers from the premises.
Repealed
13.81-13.122 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 14
Repealed
14.02-14.28 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Repealed
14.30-14.50 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 43/96.] Section 16 — machinery, equipment and industrial processes [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Repealed
16.02-16.96 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Maintenance of machinery and equipment Definitions; safety 16.98 (1)  for the purpose of regulations 16.98, 16.100 and 16.102 The following definitions apply:
"control device" Means the device controlling the flow of power to the machinery or Equipment and includes, but is not limited to, switches, circuit Breakers, valves and clutches. in the case of electrical controls It means the device controlling the flow of current to the branch Circuit which supplies power to the machinery or equipment.
Individual control buttons or switches in control circuits are Excluded;
"maintenance" Means the work of keeping machinery or equipment in a safe Operating condition and includes but is not limited to repairing, Adjusting, cleaning, lubricating and the clearing of obstructions To the normal flow of material.
(2)  except as permitted by clause (3) the maintenance of Moving machinery or equipment is prohibited when contact with Moving parts could injure workers.
(3)  the following precautions shall be taken when it is Essential to the process that the equipment remain in operation (a) only that part of the machinery which is vital to the Process shall be energized, (b) workers engaged in such operations shall be fully trained And authorized to carry out the process, and (c) a safe procedure shall be established in each instance And the procedure shall be readily available and, where practical, Shall be posted adjacent to the machinery.
Requirements prior to working on machinery or equipment 16.100 (1)  except as provided by regulation 16.98, when machinery Or equipment is shut down for maintenance or repairs, no work Shall be carried out (a) until all parts, extensions and attachments have been Secured against inadvertent movement, (b) when the nature of the work exposes workers to mechanical Hazards or harmful substances, until the hazardous conditions have Been controlled, and (c) until all control devices have been locked out in Accordance with regulation 16.102.
(2)  when workers are required to work in any confined space Which is connected to a system of material conveyance, the control Devices shall be locked in the inoperative position and the Requirements of regulation 13.19 shall be complied with.
Lockout procedures Lockout requirements 16.102 (1)  (a) except as provided by regulation 16.98, when Circumstances require the application of lockout procedures the Control devices shall be secured in the inoperative position by The use of locks. such locks shall be marked or tagged to identify The person applying them. written lockout procedures shall be made Available to all workers who are required to work on the machinery Or equipment.
(b) locks issued to an individual worker shall be operable Only by that worker's key and by a master key for emergency use, Per clause (4) (a), which shall be kept securely under a senior Shift supervisor's control. combination locks shall not be used.
(c) where a number of locks are issued to a worker for his Sole use they may be mastered to a single key.
(2)  each worker who works on the machinery or equipment Requiring lockout procedures shall be responsible for (a) locking the control devices, except as provided by clause (5) of this regulation, and (b) removal of his own locks on the completion of his work.
(3)  the person applying the first lock in a lockout Procedure shall forthwith ensure that the locked out machinery or Equipment cannot be operated.
(4)  (a) locks shall only be removed by the person or persons Who installed them, or in emergency, by the senior shift Supervisor on duty who shall first make every effort to contact The individual who put the lock on, and who shall then ensure that The machinery or equipment can be operated safely.
(b) workers coming on shift shall place their own locks on All control devices before the individuals going off shift remove Their locks, or shift supervisors may lock out the control devices During shift changes to allow workers going off shift to remove Their locks.
(5)  the use of a key box system as outlined hereunder is Acceptable when multiple lockout points are involved:
(a) 2 qualified workers, one of whom may be a supervisor, Shall be responsible for (i)  locking out the multiple control devices, each using a Set of locks, keyed alike, but not keyed to the other set, (ii)  completing, signing and posting the checklist adjacent To the key box, (iii)  placing in the key box the keys for the locks which Are affixed to the multiple control points, and (iv)  locking out the key box using personal locks or other Positive sealing devices acceptable to the board.
(b) all other workers who are required to work on the Machinery or equipment shall also lock out the key box using Personal locks before commencing maintenance or repair work.
(c) on the completion of the work all workers referred to in Subclause (5) (b) shall remove their locks from the key box.
(d) the 2 qualified workers who locked out the equipment Shall then remove their locks from the key box and from the Multiple lockout points.
(e) a written key box lockout procedure shall be kept posted At the key box location.
(6)  clause (2) does not apply where systems are controlled By a central control operator. the operator shall lock out the Central control and record the portion locked out and the time. he Shall re-energize the system on the instructions of the person who Requested the de-energization, who has first determined that it is Safe to do so.
(7)  where motor disconnect switches are installed for Lockout purposes they shall simultaneously disconnect both the Motor and motor control circuits from their sources of supply.
Such motor disconnect switches shall be readily accessible and Where installed in elevated positions, access shall be by means of A permanent ladder or by a stairway to a platform which conforms To regulation 8.68.
(8)  existing exemptions from lockout requirements, which Were granted under the authority of regulation 16.102 (7) (b) of The regulations which came into effect on may 1, 1972, will expire On july 1, 1978.
(9)  applications for renewal of exemptions shall be Submitted to the board in writing by april 1, 1978 and by that Date on each year thereafter. such applications shall include (a) a copy of the alternative procedure currently in effect, (b) proof that the alternative procedure is effectively Enforced, and (c) confirmation that the alternative procedure is endorsed By the industrial health & safety committee.
(10)  exemptions may be revoked at any time for failure to Enforce the alternative procedure, and, if revoked, will not be Renewed.
[am. b.c. reg. 374/79, ss. 18, 19, 20.] Repealed
16.104-16.124 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Mobile chippers Hand fed mobile chippers 16.126 (1)  every hand fed mobile chipper shall be equipped with (a) a barrier, located on the feed side of the rotor, Designed to prevent the ejection of chipped material from the feed Side of the chipper, and (b) a guard or device of a design acceptable to the board, Which will prevent the operator from contacting the rotor.
(2)  clause (1) (b) does not apply to small mobile chippers Equipped with vertical hoppers which feed material by gravity to The rotor, provided that the hopper is of such depth as to prevent The operator from contacting the rotor. the depth shall in no case Be less than 36 inches (91 cm), measured from the lip of the Hopper to the periphery of the rotor.
Repealed
16.128-16.130 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Sections 17 to 21 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 22 — electrical systems [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Definitions
22.02 For the purpose of sections 22 and 24 of these regulations the Following definitions apply:
"approved" As applied to electrical equipment means electrical equipment as Defined in the 12th edition of the canadian electrical code and Amended for use in british columbia; "conductor" Means a wire or cable or other form of metal, installed for the Purpose of conveying electric current from one piece of electrical Equipment to another or to ground; "electrical equipment" Means any apparatus, appliance conduit, cable, device, fitting, Fixture, instrument, insulator, machinery, material, pipe, pole, Plant, structure, wire, works, or other things used for, or Designed or intended for use for or in connection with, the Generation, transformation, transmission, distribution, supply, Control, or use of electrical energy for any purpose, and includes Any assembly or combination of materials or thing used, or Intended to be used or adapted, to serve any purpose or function When connected to a source of electrical energy; "electrical installation" Means the installation of any system of wiring in or upon any Land, building or premises from the point or points where electric Power or energy is delivered therein or thereon by the supply Authority or from any other source of supply to the point or Points where such power or energy can be used therein or thereon By any electrical equipment and shall include the connection of Any such wiring with any of the said equipment, and any part of The wiring system aforesaid, and shall include the maintenance, Alteration, extension and repair of such wiring; "hazardous area" Means an area where tree limbs are so located beside or above Energized high voltage conductors as to present a hazard of Contact with the conductors during the tree trimming process; "high voltage" Means an alternating or direct current potential of 751 volts or Over, between conductors or between conductors and ground; "live line caution tag" Means a tag issued by the owner of an electrical system as part of A procedure to inform their systems-operating personnel of work Being done in proximity to energized high voltage conductors; "low voltage" Means any voltage from 31 to 750 volts inclusive; "qualified person" Means one familiar with the construction and operation of the Equipment and with the hazards involved.
Authorized workers 22.04 Only qualified persons shall work or be authorized to work on Electrical installations and equipment.
Working on energized equipment Gloves and shields 22.06 (1)  subject to clause (2) of this regulation, rubber gloves, "cover up" and other necessary safety equipment shall be used by Workers engaged in work on energized electrical conductors or Equipment operating at more than 250 volts to ground. refer to Regulation 14.04 regarding medic-alert bracelets.
(2)  the maximum voltage permitted for the use of rubber Gloves and rubber equipment while working on energized electrical Conductors or equipment, shall be 3 000 volts to ground.
[am. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 26] Voltages in excess of 3 000 22.08 No worker shall work on any energized electrical conductors or Equipment operating at more than 3 000 volts, unless procedures Satisfactory to the board are used, or the workers are provided With and trained in the use of special tools which are approved For use by an authority acceptable to the board.
2 man requirements for voltages in excess of 750 22.10 (1)  no work shall be done on the energized parts of any Electrical conductor or equipment operating at more than 750 volts Ac, or 300 volts dc, to ground, unless 2 or more qualified persons Are present while the work is being performed.
(2)  this regulation does not apply to the fusing of Transformers, where such transformer fuses are accessible without Passing or reaching past electrical conductors or appliances Carrying more than 250 volts, nor does it apply to work done with Special tools which are designed for the purpose, and which are Used by qualified persons who have been trained in the use of such Tools.
Labour requirements in tunnels and manholes 22.12 In tunnels and manholes no work shall be done on any energized Electrical conductor or equipment operating at more than 250 Volts, unless at least 2 qualified persons are present.
Guarding of energized lines or equipment 22.14 (1)  no work shall be done in or about any place or structure In proximity to energized electrical conductors or equipment, Which are normally isolated by position or elevation unless guards Are provided to prevent contact by any worker, or by any equipment Or tools being handled or used.
(2)  guards shall be constructed to specifications of an Authority acceptable to the board.
High voltage warning signs and notices 22.16 Notices reading "danger—high voltage" shall be placed in proximity To electrical equipment accessible to workers, and operating at Over 750 volts ac, or 300 volts dc, to ground.
Working on de-energized equipment De-energizing procedures 22.20 (1)  before work is commenced on any part of an electrical Power system which, for reasons of safety, must be handled in a De-energized condition, the worker in charge shall ensure that the Part of the system being worked on is de-energized and grounded, And that the controls are locked out, in accordance with Regulations 16.100 and 16.102.
(2)  when the control devices are not under the direct Control of the worker, he shall receive assurance from the person In charge of the control devices that the work may safely proceed.
Such assurances shall be recorded by the person giving the Assurance.
(3)  before commencing work on the de-energized part of the System the worker in charge shall ensure that all workers are Protected against re-energization.
(4)  the system shall not be re-energized except on the Instructions of the worker who had requested the de-energizing, or A supervisor, who has first determined that it is safe to do so.
Miscellaneous requirements Tunnels, manholes and spaces 22.22 All tunnels, manholes, and other confined spaces containing Electrical conductors or equipment shall be cleared of free water, And properly ventilated and tested for dangerous gas levels before A worker enters. the requirements of regulations 13.05 to 13.19 Inclusive shall be complied with.
Unsound poles or structures 22.24 (1)  before a worker starts to climb or support himself on Any pole or structure, or before any work is done which will Affect the stability of the pole or structure (a) the pole or structure shall be tested for soundness, (b) when any doubt as to soundness exists, the pole or Structure shall be effectively guyed or otherwise supported before Any wires or cables are changed, and (c) guys or supports shall be left in place until workers are Clear of the pole.
(2)  pike poles alone shall not be considered adequate Support.
Obstructions on poles 22.26 (1)  except as provided by clause (2) mail boxes, signs, Clothes lines or other obstructions or hazards, shall not be Allowed on, or in proximity to poles upon which workers are Required to work.
(2)  aluminum pole identification tags may be placed on the Side which a worker will face, when climbing, at a height above Grade not exceeding 66 inches (1.7 m).
Access to equipment; storage of flammable material 22.28 (1)  passageways, including aisles and walkways, and working Space around electrical equipment shall not be used for storage And shall be kept clear of obstructions and so arranged as to give Authorized persons ready access to all parts requiring attention.
(2)  flammable material shall not be stored or placed in Dangerous proximity to electrical equipment.
Identification of controls 22.30 All electrical distribution switches and controls shall be clearly Marked to indicate the machinery or equipment which they serve.
Tool and equipment grounding 22.32 (1)  exposed non-current carrying metal parts of portable Tools and equipment shall be effectively grounded.
(2)  clause (1) does not apply if (a) the equipment is of the double insulated type and is Identified as such, (b) the equipment is supplied through an isolating Transformer having an ungrounded secondary of not more than 50 Volts output, (c) the equipment is supplied through a ground fault circuit Interrupter, or (d) the equipment is supplied from a battery of not over 50 Volts output.
(3)  portable tools and equipment required to be grounded and Not permanently connected to the wiring system, shall be Effectively grounded by the use of approved 3 wire cords and 3 Prong polarized plugs inserted in grounded polarized receptacles.
Prohibition of metal ladders 22.34 Metal ladders, or wire reinforced wooden ladders, shall not be Used in proximity to energized electrical equipment, except where Authorized by the board or an authority acceptable to the board.
Acceptable equipment 22.36 All dielectric strength test equipment and equipment used to Detect faulty wiring, operating at potentials greater than 50 Volts ac or dc, shall be of a type acceptable to the british Columbia ministry of labour, safety engineering services division, Electrical safety branch and shall bear evidence of certification By the canadian standards association.
[am. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 27.] Protective equipment for work on energized conductors 22.38 Electrical protective equipment including rubber blankets, hose, Hoods, gloves and live-line tools and equipment shall be of types Approved by an authority acceptable to the board and shall be Used, stored, tested and maintained in accordance with the Regulations of that authority.
7 Section 24 — proximity to overhead power lines [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Definitions
24.00 Terms used in this section are defined in regulation 22.02.
General requirements Minimum clearance 24.02 (1)  (a) no worker shall be employed, no material shall be Piled, stored or otherwise handled, no scaffolding erected or Dismantled, nor any tools, machinery or equipment operated within The specified minimum distances from any energized high voltage Electrical conductor capable of energizing the material or Equipment, unless workers are protected in accordance with this Section.
(b) the following minimum distances shall be maintained:
Voltage
Minimum distance (phase to phase) (feet) (metres) 751 v to 75 kv 10 (3) Over 75 kv to 250 kv 15 (4.6) Over 250 kv to 550 kv 20 (6.1) (c) where overhead electric conductors are encountered in Proximity to a work area, the employer shall be responsible for (i)  ascertaining the voltage and minimum clearance distance Required,
(ii)  maintaining the minimum clearance distance, and (iii)  ensuring that the requirements of clause (1) are Complied with.
(d) this regulation does not apply to qualified persons using Safe work procedures acceptable to the board nor to workers under Their close supervision.
(2)  when work is being carried out in proximity to energized Electrical conductors operating at 750 volts or less, such work Shall be performed in a manner to prevent contact by any worker With the energized conductors.
Assurance in writing Assurance of safe conditions 24.04 (1)  when the minimum distance specified in regulation 24.02 Cannot be maintained because of the circumstances of work or Inadvertent movement of persons or equipment, an assurance in Writing, signed by the person or persons controlling the Electrical system shall be obtained before any work commences in Proximity to energized conductors. this assurance shall state That, during the time the work is to be carried on, the electrical Conductors will be (a) de-energized, (b) effectively guarded against contact, or (c) displaced or re-routed from the work area.
(2)  (a) unqualified persons shall not touch or handle Electrical guarding. equipment shall not be intentionally allowed To contact such guarding.
8 (b) whenever guarding is used a qualified safety watcher Shall be posted to control the approach of equipment and loads and To stop immediately the movement when contact with guarding Appears possible.
(3)  the written assurance shall be available for inspection At the work project, and shall be made known to all persons who May be permitted access to the area within which equipment or Materials are to be moved or stored.
[am. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 28.] Energized conductors Alternative precautions 24.06 (1)  when the high voltage conductors cannot be de-energized, Re-routed or effectively guarded, no work shall commence until Approval is obtained from the board and the following precautions Are taken:
(a) the area, within which equipment or materials are to be Moved, shall be barricaded and supervised to restrict entry to Only those workers necessarily engaged in the work; (b) a qualified person shall be designated as a watchman Whose sole task, during the movement of any equipment or material, Shall be (i)  to observe the relative position of the moving equipment Or material and the electrical conductors, and (ii)  to order the movement stopped at any time that contact Appears probable, or when conditions arise which prevent the Watchman from properly performing his task; (c) positive means shall be provided for the watchman to give A clear, understandable stop signal to the equipment operator, and The watchman shall give the stop signal by no other means; (d) while equipment or material is in motion in an area in Proximity to energized electrical conductors, no person other than Equipment operators shall touch any part of the equipment or Material;
(e) no workman shall move a load, or any rigging line, from Its position of natural suspension, when it is in proximity to an Energized electrical conductor.
(2)  where emergency action is required in proximity to Energized high voltage electrical conductors, only qualified and Properly instructed workers shall be exposed to the danger of Contact with the electrical conductors. every possible effort Shall be made to control the hazards while work is being done, Including the following precautions:
(a) entry into the area within which equipment or materials Are to be moved shall be restricted to those necessarily engaged In the work; (b) a qualified person shall be designated as a watchman Whose sole task shall be (i)  to observe the relative position of the moving equipment Or material and the electrical conductors, and (ii)  to order the movement stopped at any time that contact Appears probable or when conditions arise which prevent him from Properly performing his task; (c) positive means shall be provided for the watchman to give A clear, understandable stop signal to the equipment operator and The stop signal shall be given by no other means; (d) while equipment or material is in motion in an area in Proximity to energized electrical conductors, no persons other Than equipment operators shall touch any part of the equipment or Material;
(e) the equipment operator shall operate the controls from The seat provided on the equipment or from a metal stand which is Integral with the frame of the equipment and clear of the ground, Or from a metallic mat, bonded to the frame of the machine and Located on the ground beside the machine. in no case shall he Operate the controls while standing on the ground.
Tree trimming near energized conductors Preliminary inspection; limits of approach; tools 24.08 (1)  every area in which tree trimming in proximity to Energized high voltage overhead conductors is intended shall first Be inspected by a qualified person, authorized by the owner of the Electrical system, for the purpose of identifying hazardous areas.
(2)  no trimming shall be done in areas identified as Hazardous unless (a) the necessary "live line caution tag" has been taken out By a qualified person authorized to do so by the owner of the Electrical system, (b) an authorized, qualified person is in charge at the work Site,
(c) the workers are qualified tree trimmers, and (d) the limits of approach specified in clause (3) are Maintained.
(3)  under no circumstances of work or inadvertent motion Shall workers, other than qualified electrical workers, come Closer to energized conductors than the following limits of Approach:
Voltage
Minimum distance (phase to phase) (feet) (metres) 751 v to 20 kv 3 (0.9) 20 kv to 30 kv 4 (1.2) 30 kv to 75 kv 5 (1.5) 75 kv to 250 kv 10 (3) 250 kv to 325 kv 15 (4.6) 325 kv to 550 kv 20 (6.1) (4)  a tree or limb in contact with an energized high voltage Conductor shall be removed by a qualified person, authorized by The owner of the electrical system involved.
(5)  all tree trimming vehicle mounted aerial devices shall Be in conformity with the requirements of regulation 32.36.
(6)  insulated hand tools shall be used wherever practicable And shall be in conformity with the requirements of regulation 22.38.
(7)  mobile chippers shall be equipped with safety devices as Required by regulation 16.126.
Section 25
Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 26 — mobile equipment Repealed
26.00-26.04 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Braking and steering requirements 26.06 (1)  (a) mobile equipment, except forklift trucks, shall be Equipped with braking systems meeting the requirements of the Following applicable society of automotive engineers (sae) Recommended practices, or other standards acceptable to the board:
Sae j1152 minimum performance criteria for braking systems for Off-highway rubber-tired, self propelled construction machines; Sae j1026a minimum performance criteria for braking systems for Crawler tractors and crawler loaders; Sae j1178 minimum performance criteria for braking systems for Rubber-tired skidders; Sae j1136 minimum performance criteria for braking systems for Self-propelled, smooth steel wheel, pneumatic tired or multiple Projection steel wheel rollers and compactors; Sae j1224 minimum performance criteria for braking systems for new Off-highway dumpers.
(b) mobile equipment including forklift trucks manufactured On or before january 1, 1980 may remain in service except when, in The opinion of the board, modification is required to ensure the Safety of workers.
(2)  forklift trucks shall be equipped with braking systems Meeting the requirements of section 408 of ansi b56.1-1975, or Other standards acceptable to the board.
(3)  all mobile equipment shall be fitted with a parking System. the use of gas or fluid pressure for maintaining Application of the parking system is prohibited.
(4)  when mobile equipment depends on engine power for Stopping and power failure will result in loss of adequate Stopping capability, supplementary means shall be provided to Enable the operator to bring the equipment to a safe stop.
(5)  when any wheeled mobile equipment depends on engine Power for steering and power failure will result in loss of Adequate directional control, a supplementary power source shall Be provided for the steering system to enable the operator to Steer the machine to a safe stop. such installations shall conform To standards acceptable to the board.
(6)  steering wheel knobs other than those of the mushroom Type shall not be used on any mobile equipment on which the Steering gear feeds back road wheel reactions to the steering Wheel. the knobs shall lie completely within the periphery of the Wheels.
(7)  all mobile equipment manufactured after january 1, 1979 Shall be provided with protection against engine starter Engagement when the engine is coupled to the wheels or tracks.
(8)  where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the board That compliance with clauses (1), (3) or (4) is not feasible or is Unnecessary, the mobile equipment may be exempted from compliance With any of these clauses, subject to any limitations or Conditions that the board may consider necessary.
[en. b.c. reg. 374/79, s. 32.] Repealed
26.08-26.50 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Sections 28 to 30 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 32 — scaffolds, swing stages and miscellaneous stages Repealed
32.02-32.34 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Elevating work platforms Definitions and compliance 32.36 (1)  for the purposes of this regulation, the following Definitions apply:
"elevating work platform" Means a work platform that can be self-elevated to overhead work Locations and includes all types of aerial devices that are not Covered elsewhere in these regulations; "self propelled elevating work platform" Means any elevating work platform designed to be self-propelled And controlled from the operator's station on the work platform; "self-propelled, boom-supported elevating work platform" Means a self-propelled elevating work platform which has its Platform supported by an elevating means that both elevates and Rotates relative to the machine base and which is not mounted on a Separate self-propelled vehicle.
(2)  except as provided hereafter, all elevating work Platforms other than fire fighting equipment, shall be designed, Fabricated, operated, inspected, tested and maintained in Accordance with the following applicable standards:
(a) csa c225 "vehicle mounted aerial devices"; 9 (b) wcb standard a321 "self-propelled elevating work Platforms";
(c) wcb standard a322 "elevating rolling scaffolds"; (d) wcb standard a323 "work platforms mounted on industrial Lift trucks"; (e) canadian standards association z249.2 "safety standard For powered industrial trucks"; (f) other standards acceptable to the board.
(3)  (a) except as provided hereafter, work platforms mounted On forklift trucks shall conform to those requirements of canadian Standards association z249.2 relating to order-picker trucks.
(b) work platforms mounted on forklift trucks and not Conforming to clause (1) shall be in compliance with w.c.b.
Standard a323 and shall be used only for emergent or infrequent Operations.
(4)  (a) elevating work platforms and all similar aerial Platforms shall (i)  be fitted with guardrails, intermediate rails and Toeboards
10 On all open sides, or be enclosed to a height of 42 inches (107cm), (ii)  be fitted with guards to protect the occupants from Contact with the elevating machinery, (iii)  be secured to the fork carriage when the work Platforms are mounted on forklift trucks, and (iv)  be fitted with signs clearly indicating the safe Working load.
(b) electric trolley line maintenance vehicles may have Guardrails not less than 28 inches (71cm) in height.
(5)  if a unit is fitted with outriggers it shall be equipped With notices clearly indicating the circumstances in which the Outriggers must be used.
(6)  (a) carrier vehicles of work platforms shall be Immobilized against inadvertent movement before workers occupy the Platform. where it is permitted by the equipment manufacturer to Elevate the platform on a slope, the vehicle's wheels shall be Chocked.
(b) all elevating work platforms shall be fitted with Stopping systems meeting the requirements of regulation 26.06.
(7)  (a) all operators shall be adequately trained in the Safe operation of these devices and be familiar with their Limitations.
(b) where the motion of an aerial work platform is controlled From an operator station at the base of the machine, the operator Shall not leave the controls while workers are on the platform and Shall respond only to signals from a designated occupant of the Platform.
(8)  occupants of elevating work platforms must wear full Body harnesses, secured to a fall arrest anchor, in accordance With the relevant regulations contained in section 8. this Requirement does not apply to workers on self-propelled scissor Lift type elevating platforms with all manufacturer's guardrails And chains in place, while operating on level, smooth terrain.
(9)  (a) workers shall not be transported on aerial work Platforms. workers may remain on platforms while minor adjusting Movements are made.
(b) elevating work platforms designed to be moved with the Platform elevated may be exempted from the requirements of clause (9) (a) subject to limitations as specified in the applicable wcb Standards.
(10)  scissor type and other lifting mechanisms which create A shearing hazard shall be guarded where there is a possibility of Workers inadvertently coming into contact with any hazardous Moving parts of the platform lifting mechanism.
(11)  (a) all vehicle mounted aerial devices and Self-propelled boom-supported elevating work platforms shall be Subject to non-destructive testing of critical components, Conducted by an agency or persons acceptable to the board, at Intervals not to exceed 24 months. where defects are found in the Critical components, the aerial device shall be repaired and then Certified by a registered professional engineer. a permanent Record of such tests and repairs shall be maintained for each Unit.
(b) for the purposes of this regulation "critical component" Means any component the failure of which could result in immediate Uncontrolled motion of the platform.
(c) notwithstanding sub-clauses (11) (a) and (b) an Alternative preventive maintenance program to ensure the Structural integrity of any such equipment may be submitted to the Board for consideration.
(12)  every elevating work platform shall be fitted with an Emergency stop button on the platform which will effectively De-energize all systems in the case of a malfunction of the Control circuits.
(13)  every elevating work platform shall be fitted with a Clearly marked over-riding lowering control which, in an Emergency, will enable a worker at ground level to lower the Platform.
(14)  elevating work platforms shall be fitted with "deadman" Type controls. such controls shall be protected against Inadvertent operation through physical contact, electrical Malfunction or other causes.
(15)  every elevating work platform, except truck mounted Units covered by csa c225, shall be fitted with a warning system Consisting of an intermittent horn or flashing light which will be Activated automatically during any forward, reverse, up or down Motion of the work platform.
(16)  (a) every self-propelled boom-supported elevating work Platform shall be fitted with a tilt alarm or other suitable Warning device activated automatically when the platform is Elevated and the carrier is more than 5 degrees out of level.
(b) all other self propelled elevating work platforms, except Truck mounted units covered by csa c225, shall be provided with a Tilt angle indicator readily visible to the operator.
(c) (i) scaffolds mounted on vehicles shall be secured to the Vehicle in a manner that will ensure the stability of the Scaffold.
(ii)  scaffolds shall be mounted only on vehicles which are Equipped with levelling jacks or other devices designed to Maintain the chassis in a level and stable condition.
(17)  modifications, additions, or repairs to elevating work Platforms shall only be effected in accordance with the Instructions of the manufacturer or of a registered professional Engineer.
[am. b.c. regs. 374/79, s. 37; 7/96, s. 9.] Repealed
32.38-32.82 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Sections 33 to 44 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Section 46 — explosives [see b.c. reg. 340/97] Repealed
46.00-46.20 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Reporting blasting accidents or irregularities 46.22 (1)  when a blasting accident occurs in which any personal Injury is sustained, or when there is any unusual occurrence in Which explosives are involved, whether or not personal injury is Sustained, the employer shall (a) report the incident immediately to the accident Prevention department as required by regulation 6.02, and (b) forward a written report of the incident without delay to The accident prevention department.
(2)  the written report shall state (a) the names and certificate numbers of all blasters Involved,
(b) the names and occupations of any persons injured, (c) the type of explosives, detonators and blasting machine Used,
(d) a factual account of events pertinent to the accident, And
(e) action taken by the employer.
Repealed
46.24-46.136 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Sections 48 to 76 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Appendices a and b Repealed. [b.c. reg. 315/2003, app. c, s. 2.] Appendices c to l Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] Appendix m Repealed. [b.c. reg. 8/96, s. 1.] Appendix n Repealed. [b.c. reg. 296/97.] 1.
Names of the injured may be deleted from published reports if Desired.
2.
This height specification is similar to that of the national Building code – 1975. handrails on existing stairs conforming To the earlier specification of 30 to 34 inches (76 cm to 86 Cm) will not require modification.
3.
The design and use of structures is governed by the Municipal act Of british columbia and regulations pursuant thereto. the Provision of fire fighting equipment is governed by the Fire services act Of british columbia and regulations pursuant thereto.
4.
Electrical equipment and installations are generally governed By the Electrical safety act Of british columbia and regulations pursuant thereto.
5.
Many piping systems are subject to the Power engineers and boiler and pressure vessel safety act Of british columbia and regulations pursuant thereto.
6.
The
Factories act , 1966 was revised as the Factory act , r.s.b.c. 1977-118, which was replaced by the Workplace act , s.b.c. 1985-34, now r.s.b.c. 1996-493.
7.
For the purposes of this regulation, b.c. hydro and power Authority has been accepted by the board as such an authority And the relevant regulations are the "safety practice Regulations".
8.
Guarding will not completely eliminate the danger of Electrical shock if contact is made.
9.
The testing requirements of clause 3.2.1. (b) of this standard Shall be modified to cover the full range of platform height, Rather than the upper 2/3 of platform height as specified by That clause.
10.
Toeboards may be omitted at the access openings.
[provisions of the Workers compensation act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 492, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: sections 70 and 71]