"point in time" regulation content Pharmacists, pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act Access to pharmanet patient record information regulation B.c. reg. 384/99 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 537/2004, effective february 1, 2005.
B.c. reg. 384/99 O.c. 1579/99 Deposited november 19, 1999 Pharmacists, pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act Access to pharmanet patient record information regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"access" Means access to patient record information on the pharmanet system For the purpose of providing therapeutic treatment or care to Patients;
"hospital" Means a hospital as defined in paragraph (a) of the definition of "hospital" in section 1 of the Hospital act That is designated under paragraph (a) of the definition of "hospital" in section 1 of the Hospital insurance act ; "medical practice" Means any premises where a medical practitioner ordinarily Practices medicine; "pilot project" Means a study and evaluation, administered by the ministry of Health, of access from medical practices.
Designated persons 2 Subject to section 3, the following persons are permitted to have Access:
(a) a medical practitioner; (b) a licensed practical nurse who is a registrant of the College of licensed practical nurses of british columbia and in Good standing with the college; (c) a registered nurse who is a member of the registered Nurses' association of british columbia and in good standing with The association; (d) a registered psychiatric nurse who is a registrant of the College of registered psychiatric nurses of british columbia and In good standing with the college; (e) a person authorized by a medical practitioner to have Access
(i)  under the direct supervision of the medical Practitioner, and (ii)  in the course of carrying out the person's employment Or other duties in a hospital emergency department or a medical Practice.
Requirements, restrictions and conditions for access 3 A person designated in section 2 is only permitted to have access (a) if the purpose and manner of access is consistent with The standards set out in the healthnet/bc application services Professional and software compliance standards published by the Ministry of health, and (b) from (i)  a hospital emergency department; (ii)  a medical practice that is included in the pilot Project.
Note:
This regulation replaces b.c. reg. 401/97.
[provisions of the Pharmacists, pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 363, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 38.1]