"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Community Care and Assisted Living Act
Child Care Licensing Regulation
B.C. Reg. 319/89
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 332/2007, effective November 8,
2007.
B.C. Reg. 319/89
O.C. 1476/89
Deposited October 13, 1989
effective November 1, 1990 (section 4);
effective March 1, 1990 (section 22 (c));
effective November 1, 1989 (remainder)
Community Care and Assisted Living Act
Child Care Licensing Regulation
Part 1 - Definitions and Exemptions
Definitions
1
(1)  In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Community Care and Assisted Living Act
;
"assistant"
means a person who has the qualifications required by section 11;
"certificate"
means a certificate issued under section 8 of the Act or section 9
of the
Community Care Facility Act
before its repeal;
"director of the early childhood educator registry"
means the person responsible for
(a) issuing certificates to educators under sections 9, 10
and 13, and
(b) varying, suspending, or cancelling certificates under
section 14,
that being the person described in section 8;
"educator"
means an early childhood educator certified under section 9, and a
special needs early childhood educator and an infant and toddler
educator certified under section 10;
"group day care"
means the provision, in a group setting, of care to children and
of opportunities for their social, emotional, physical and
intellectual growth;
"local assistant to the fire commissioner"
means "local assistant" as defined in the
Fire Services Act
;
"parent"
, in respect of a person in care, means
(a) the guardian of the person in care,
(b) the person legally entitled to custody of the person in
care, or
(c) the person who usually has the care and control of the
person in care;
"reportable incident"
means a reportable incident described in Schedule F;
"residential care facility"
means a community care facility in which care and opportunities
for social, emotional, physical and intellectual growth are
provided to persons in care who are placed in the community care
facility to receive 24 hours of care and supervision each day, but
does not include a community care facility referred to in section
36;
"responsible adult"
means a person who has the qualifications required by section 12;
"special needs children"
means children who, because of physical, mental or emotional
handicaps, require additional support and services;
"substitute parent"
means a person designated, in writing, by the parent of a person
in care as a substitute parent of the person in care.
(2)  For the purpose of paragraph (a) of the definition of
"care" in section 1 of the Act, the prescribed programs are those
regulated by the following Parts of this regulation:
Part 3
[Group Day Care, under 36 Months]
;
Part 4
[Group Day Care, 30 Months to School Age]
;
Part 5
[Preschool, 30 Months to School Age]
;
Part 6
[Special Needs Day Care]
;
Part 7
[Family Child Care]
;
Part 8
[Out of School Care]
;
Part 10
[Emergency Care]
;
Part 11
[Child Minding, 18 Months to School Age]
;
Part 11.1
[Occasional Child Care at Ski Hill or Resort]
.
(3)  For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of
"care" in section 1 of the Act, the prescribed program is that
regulated by Part 9
[Residential Care]
of this regulation.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 457/2004,
Sch. 2, s. 1.]
Exemptions under section 16 of the Act
2
(1)  An applicant for an exemption under section 16 of the
Act must provide, in writing and in a form acceptable to the
medical health officer, the information requested by the medical
health officer.
(2)  If the exemption requested under subsection (1) is not
granted, or is not granted in full, the medical health officer
must provide to the applicant for the exemption written reasons
for not granting the exemption or for not granting part of the
exemption.
(3)  The medical health officer may grant an exemption to any
section of the Act or regulation, except those listed in Schedule
G.
(4)  In determining whether to grant an application under
subsection (1) for a variation to
(a) an exemption that was granted to a licensee or applicant
for a licence under section 5 (3) of the
Community Care Facility Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 60, before that section was repealed,
(b) a substitute requirement that was imposed on a licensee
or applicant for a licence under section 5 (4) of the
Community Care Facility Act
before that section was repealed,
(c) an alternative arrangement approved by the medical health
officer under sections 15 (3), 30 (1.1), 30.1, 33.1, 36.1 (1),
67.1 (1), or section 10 of Schedule E of this regulation before
those provisions were repealed, or
(d) an authorization granted under section 51 (2) (a) before
that provision was amended,
the medical health officer must accept the exemption, substitute
requirement, alternative arrangement or authorization on its face
and consider only the merits of the application under subsection
(1).
(5)  In addition to any information required by the medical
health officer under subsection (1), a licensee who is applying to
temporarily place or retain in a facility a child who does not
meet the requirements specified in the definition of "child" in
sections 37, 42, 47, 52, 57, 61, 71, 76 or 80.1, as applicable,
must show that
(a) the temporary placement or retention is in the best
interests of the child, and
(b) none of the following limits or ratios specified for the
facility, as applicable, are exceeded:
(i)  the maximum size of a group, however determined;
(ii)  the maximum number of children cared for or living in a
facility at one time, however determined;
(iii)  the ratio of employees to children.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Part 1.1 - Licensee and Employees
Application for licence
3
(1)  An applicant for a licence to operate a community care
facility must
(a) submit an application to the medical health officer, and
(b) provide, in the form specified by the medical health
officer, the information set out in subsection (3).
(2)  An applicant for a licence must immediately notify the
medical health officer of any change in the information provided
under subsection (1) (b).
(3)  An application referred to in subsection (1) must be
accompanied by
(a) a statement of the qualifications, relevant work
experience and suitability of the person who is proposed to be the
manager of the community care facility,
(b) 3 references and a criminal record check under the
Criminal Records Review Act
for
(i)  the applicant, if the applicant is not a corporation,
and
(ii)  the proposed manager, if the manager is different than
the applicant,
(c) a statement of the number of employees, excluding the
manager, the applicant proposes to employ and their
qualifications,
(d) a brief description of the program to be offered at the
community care facility,
(e) a floor plan of the proposed community care facility
drawn to scale and showing
(i)  the inside dimensions of each room and the width of each
corridor and stair,
(ii)  the size and location of the fixed equipment in each
room,
(iii)  the location and size of windows and the height of
windowsills from the floor, and
(iv)  the location of accommodation reserved for family or
staff,
(f) a site plan of the proposed community care facility drawn
to scale and showing
(i)  the boundaries of the property on which the community
care facility is located,
(ii)  the location of the community care facility, and
(iii)  the location and dimensions of the play area,
(g) a statement of projected monthly revenue and
expenditures, including the estimated cost of employee salaries,
food, utilities, maintenance, housing and programs,
(h) if the play area is not within the boundaries of the
property on which the community care facility is located, a sketch
map showing the location of the play area in relation to the
community care facility and its distance from the community care
facility, and
(i) if the applicant is a society, a copy of the constitution
and bylaws of the society.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Duty to inform
4
A licensee must notify the medical health officer
(a) immediately of any change in the information provided
under section 3, and
(b) before any structural alteration is made to a community
care facility.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Criminal record checks
5
(1)  A licensee must not employ a person in a community care
facility unless the licensee is satisfied of the person's good
character and suitability for employment in the community care
facility after the licensee
(a) obtains a criminal record check under the
Criminal Records Review Act
for the person, and
(b) examines character references for the person.
(2)  The licensee must not permit a person over the age of
12, other than a person in care or a parent of a person in care
enrolled at the community care facility, to be ordinarily present
on the premises of a community care facility during the time that
persons in care are present, unless the person is of good
character and the licensee has obtained a criminal record check
under the
Criminal Records Review Act
for that person.
(3)  If the licensee is not a corporation, the licensee must
be of good character and must submit to the registrar under the
Criminal Records Review Act
an authorization to obtain a criminal record check under that Act
for the licensee.
(4)  The licensee must retain all results of the criminal
record check referred to in this section as long as the subject of
the criminal record check remains an employee of the community
care facility.
(5)  The licensee must retain records of all character
references done under subsection (1) (b) for at least one year,
after which the records must be returned to the person who was the
subject of the check or be destroyed.
(6)  The licensee must retain all signed original
authorization forms for a minimum of 5 years.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Employee standards
6
(1)  The licensee must not employ a person in a community
care facility as
(a) an educator, unless the person has the appropriate
certificate, or
(b) an assistant or responsible adult, unless the person has
the qualifications required by section 11 or 12, as applicable.
(2)  A licensee must ensure that each of its employees who
works in or about a community care facility, at all times,
(a) possesses the personality, ability and temperament
necessary to maintain the spirit, dignity and individuality of the
persons being cared for,
(b) possesses the training and experience and demonstrates
the skills necessary to carry out the duties assigned to the
employee, and
(c) is physically and mentally competent to carry out the
duties assigned to the employee.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Manager
7
(1)  A licensee who is not the manager of the community care
facility must ensure that the manager
(a) is a person of good character,
(b) has the personality, ability and temperament necessary to
manage a community care facility in a manner that will maintain
the spirit, dignity and individuality of the persons being cared
for, and
(c) is physically and mentally competent to carry out
assigned duties.
(2)  A manager must not manage more than one community care
facility.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Director of the early childhood educator registry
8
(1)  The director of the early childhood educator registry is
the person who occupies the position of Executive Director of the
Child Care Programs and Services Branch of the Ministry of
Children and Family Development.
(2)  The director of licensing must perform the duties and
functions of the director of the early childhood educator registry
if all of the following apply:
(a) there is no person described in subsection (1) or that
person is unable to act;
(b) there is no person acting for a person described in
subsection (1) or that person is unable to act;
(c) there is no deputy to a person described in subsection
(1) or that person is unable to act.
[en. B.C. Reg. 457/2004, Sch. 2, s. 2.]
Qualifications for an early childhood educator certificate
9
(1)  The director of the early childhood educator registry
may issue an early childhood educator certificate to an applicant
who
(a) has successfully completed a basic early childhood
education training program
(i)  through an educational institution listed in item 1 of
Schedule B, or
(ii)  that is equivalent, in the opinion of the director of
the early childhood educator registry, to a program offered by an
educational institution described under subparagraph (i),
(b) has completed 500 hours of work experience in Canada
(i)  within 5 years after completion of a training program
described in paragraph (a),
(ii)  in not more than 2 community care facilities as defined
in section 37, 42, 47, 52, 57, 71 or 76, and
(iii)  under the direction of
(A)  an educator, if the work experience is completed in the
Province, or
(B)  an individual acting in a position equivalent to an
educator in a child care setting outside the Province, in any
other case,
(c) is recommended by the person or persons under whose
direction the work experience was completed and who can attest to
the applicant's suitability to act as an educator, and
(d) is of good character.
(2)  If an applicant has, in qualifying for another
profession, completed a course that the director of the early
childhood educator registry considers is at least equivalent to a
course forming part of a training program referred to in
subsection (1) (a) (i), the director of the early childhood
educator registry may exempt the applicant from the requirement to
complete that course.
(3)  For the purpose of subsection (1) (a) (ii), the director
of the early childhood educator registry may refuse to issue a
certificate to a person solely on the basis that the educational
institution from which the person received training is not
approved by a provincial, state, national or other government
body.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Qualifications for other certificates
10
(1)  The director of the early childhood educator registry
may issue a special needs early childhood educator certificate or
an infant and toddler educator certificate to an applicant who
(a) qualifies for an early childhood educator certificate
under section 9, and
(b) has successfully completed, as applicable,
(i)  a special needs early childhood educator training
program through an educational institution listed in item 2 (a) of
Schedule B,
(ii)  an infant and toddler educator training program through
an educational institution listed in item 2 (b) of Schedule B, or
(iii)  a program that is equivalent, in the opinion of the
director of the early childhood educator registry, to a program
offered by an educational institution described under subparagraph
(b) (i) or (ii).
(2)  For the purpose of subsection (1) (b) (iii), the
director of the early childhood educator registry may refuse to
issue a certificate to a person solely on the basis that the
educational institution from which the person received training is
not approved by a provincial, state, national or other government
body.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 457/2004,
Sch. 2, s. 3.]
Qualifications for assistants
11
To qualify for employment in a community care facility as an
assistant, a person must
(a) be of good character,
(b) be able to provide care and mature guidance to persons in
care, and
(c) either
(i)  be in the process of qualifying for a certificate under
section 9, or
(ii)  have completed a training program that is equivalent,
in the opinion of the director of the early childhood educator
registry, to one course of a basic early childhood education
program referred to in section 9 (1) (a) (i).
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Qualifications for responsible adults
12
To qualify for employment in a community care facility as a
responsible adult, a person must
(a) be of good character,
(b) have reached 19 years of age,
(c) be able to provide care and mature guidance to persons in
care,
(d) either have completed a course on the care of young
children or have relevant work experience, and
(e) if persons in care in a residential care facility are
(i)  less than 6 years of age, have completed a course on the
care of young children or have relevant work experience, or
(ii)  from 6 to less than 19 years of age, have completed a
course in the care of children or youths or have relevant work
experience.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Expiry and renewal of a certificate
13
(1)  A certificate expires on the 5th anniversary after its
date of issue.
(2)  On application before a certificate expires, the
director of the early childhood educator registry may renew a
certificate if satisfied that
(a) the applicant is of good character, and
(b) during the term of the current certificate, the applicant
(i)  has completed 300 hours of work experience in the field
of early childhood education, and
(ii)  has
(A)  attended at least 2 seminars, conferences or workshops
on early childhood education, lasting a total of at least 12
hours, or
(B)  completed a course relating to early childhood
education.
(3)  On application after a certificate expires, the director
of the early childhood educator registry may issue a new
certificate if satisfied that
(a) the applicant is of good character,
(b) during the term of the expired certificate, the applicant
completed the requirements set out in subsection (2) (b) (i) and
(ii), and
(c) the applicant's failure to apply before the expiry of the
certificate was due to circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 457/2004,
Sch. 2, s. 4.]
Variation, suspension or cancellation of a certificate
14
(1)  In this section:
"action"
, in relation to a certificate, means a decision by the director
of the early childhood educator registry
(a) to attach or vary terms or conditions of a certificate,
or to suspend or cancel a certificate, under subsection (2), or
(b) not to issue a new certificate under section 13;
"written response"
means a written response referred to in subsection (3) (b).
(2)  The director of the early childhood educator registry
may attach or vary terms or conditions of a certificate, or
suspend or cancel a certificate, if, in the opinion of the
director of the early childhood educator registry, the certificate
holder
(a) no longer meets the requirements in section 6 (2) of this
regulation, or
(b) has engaged in conduct that detrimentally affected, or
may detrimentally affect, the health, safety or well being of a
person in care.
(3)  Thirty days before taking an action, the director of the
early childhood educator registry must give the certificate holder
(a) written reasons for the action, and
(b) written notice that the certificate holder may give a
written response to the director of the early childhood educator
registry setting out the reasons why the director of the early
childhood educator registry should make a decision under
subsection (4) respecting the action.
(4)  If the director of the early childhood educator registry
considers that this would be appropriate in the circumstances, the
director of the early childhood educator registry may, on receipt
of a written response,
(a) delay or suspend the implementation of the action if
(i)  the director of the early childhood educator registry
requires further time to consider the written response or for an
investigation under section 4 (1) (d) or 15 (1) (b) or (d) of the
Act to be completed, and
(ii)  it is reasonable to conclude that, if the delay or
suspension is granted, the health or safety of no person in care
will be placed at risk, or
(b) take the action.
(5)  The director of the early childhood educator registry
must give written reasons to the certificate holder on acting or
declining to act under subsection (4).
(6)  A certificate holder may not give the director of the
early childhood educator registry a further written response
concerning an action on or after receipt of written reasons under
subsection (5) concerning the action.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Posting of licence
15
(1)  The licensee must display the following in a prominent
place in the community care facility:
(a) the licence, including any terms or conditions of the
licence;
(b) the name of the manager;
(c) a copy of the current certificate of each educator
employed at the community care facility.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply if the community care
facility is located in a private single family dwelling as defined
in section 9 (7) of the Act.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Health of employees
16
The licensee must
(a) ensure that, before a person is employed in a community
care facility, the person provides the licensee with the written
opinion of a medical practitioner that the mental and physical
health of the person is adequate for the duties to be assigned,
(b) require each employee, as a condition of employment, to
comply with the Province's immunization and tuberculosis control
programs, and
(c) keep records respecting each employee's compliance with
and participation in the programs referred to in paragraph (b)
and, on request, make the records available to the medical health
officer.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Part 2 - General
Staffing
17
(1)  The licensee must ensure that the applicable ratio of
employees to persons in care, as set out in this regulation, is
maintained in a community care facility at all times.
(2)  If an educator is absent from a community care facility,
the licensee must appoint another educator or an assistant to
assume the responsibilities of the absentee.
(3)  If an assistant is absent from a community care
facility, the licensee must appoint an educator, another assistant
or a responsible adult to assume the responsibilities of the
absentee.
(4)  If a responsible adult is absent from a community care
facility, the licensee must appoint an educator, an assistant or
another responsible adult to assume the responsibilities of the
absentee.
(5)  If an employee absence exceeds one month, a person who
is less qualified than the absentee must not be appointed under
subsection (2), (3) or (4) without the approval of the medical
health officer.
(6)  The licensee must immediately notify the medical health
officer if the manager resigns or is expected to be absent from
duty for more than 21 consecutive days.
(7)  The licensee must immediately notify the medical health
officer of any changes in the permanent personnel.
(8)  The licensee must ensure that persons in care, while at
the community care facility or on an outing organized by
employees, are under the supervision of an employee who is capable
of ensuring that effective communication will take place during an
emergency.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Supervision of persons in care
18
The licensee must ensure that persons in care are supervised at
all times by a responsible adult, an educator or an assistant, and
that a second adult is readily available.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Release of a person in care from a community care facility
19
(1)  The licensee must obtain in writing from a parent of a
person in care, and maintain at the community care facility, the
name of each person authorized to remove the person in care from
the community care facility.
(2)  The licensee must ensure that a person in care is not
released from a community care facility to anyone except
(a) a parent of the person in care, or
(b) a person authorized under subsection (1).
(3)  The licensee must have written policies and procedures
to guide employee actions when
(a) a person referred to in subsection (2)
(i)  appears to be incapable of providing safe care, or
(ii)  does not arrive to pick up the person in care, or
(b) a person not authorized under subsection (1) requests the
release of the person in care from the community care facility.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Parental access
20
The licensee must ensure that a parent of a person in care has
reasonable access to a person in care while that person in care is
in the community care facility.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Records and consents
21
(1)  The licensee must maintain at the community care
facility current records showing the following information in
respect of each person in care:
(a) name, sex, date of birth, medical insurance plan number
and immunization record;
(b) date of enrolment in the community care facility;
(c) daily attendance record;
(d) name and telephone number of a parent, medical
practitioner and emergency contact person;
(e) any therapeutic diet or special instruction that is
recommended or given by a medical practitioner and of which a
parent or the medical practitioner has notified the licensee in
writing;
(f) any medication that is prescribed by a medical
practitioner or provided by a parent that the licensee has agreed
to administer, and any instruction on administering that
medication;
(g) the times any diet referred to in paragraph (e) is given
or medication referred to in paragraph (f) is administered;
(h) any other instruction given by a parent;
(i) any illness or medical disability disclosed to the
licensee by the person in care or their parent or medical
practitioner.
(2)  The licensee must obtain in writing from a parent of a
person in care, and maintain at the community care facility,
consent for employees to call a medical practitioner or ambulance
for the person in care in case of accident or illness, if the
parent of the person in care cannot immediately be reached.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Medication
22
(1)  If a licensee has agreed with a parent to give a person
in care any medication prescribed by a medical practitioner or
provided by the parent, the licensee must ensure that the
medication is administered to the person in care in the amount and
at the times specified in the person in care's record.
(2)  A licensee must ensure that medication is not given to a
person in care while under the care or supervision of the
licensee, except in accordance with subsection (1).
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Notification of illness or injury
23
(1)  A licensee must immediately notify a parent of a person
in care or the person named for that purpose in the person in
care's record under section 21 (1) (d) if, while under the care or
supervision of the licensee,
(a) the person in care becomes ill or is injured, or
(b) the person in care is involved in a reportable incident.
(2)  A licensee must notify the medical health officer within
24 hours after
(a) a person in care is involved in a reportable incident
while under the care or supervision of the licensee, or
(b) it comes to the attention of the licensee that a person
in care enrolled in the community care facility has a reportable
communicable disease as defined in section 1 of the
Health Act
Communicable Disease Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/83.
(3)  A licensee must maintain a log of
(a) minor accidents and illnesses that do not require medical
attention and are not reportable incidents, and
(b) unexpected events involving a person in care.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Person in care who becomes ill
24
The licensee must
(a) provide in the community care facility a quiet, clean
resting area for persons in care who become ill while under the
care or supervision of the licensee, and
(b) ensure that a person in care who becomes ill is under the
close supervision of an adult.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Health and hygiene program
25
The licensee must establish a program for persons in care enrolled
in a community care facility to instruct them in, and to practise
the rules of, health and hygiene.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
First aid
26
The licensee must
(a) provide and maintain first aid kits approved by the
medical health officer,
(b) ensure that first aid kits are readily accessible to the
employees of a community care facility at all times, both on and
off the premises, and
(c) ensure that persons in care have immediate access to an
employee who holds a valid first aid certificate awarded to the
employee after completion of a course listed in Schedule C.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Medications, poisons, etc.
27
The licensee and the employees of a community care facility must
ensure that
(a) all medications are kept in a locked container, and
(b) no poisonous substance or potentially hazardous object is
accessible to a person in care.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Emergency procedures and fire drills
28
The licensee must
(a) establish emergency procedures before the opening of the
community care facility and ensure that all employees are
thoroughly trained in the procedures, and
(b) post and practise a system of fire drills approved by the
local assistant to the fire commissioner.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Telephone
29
The licensee must ensure that there is an operating telephone
within the community care facility and that the telephone is
readily accessible to all employees.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Furniture, equipment and fixtures
30
(1)  The licensee must supply appropriate equipment,
furniture and supplies and must ensure that any equipment,
furniture or fixture in the community care facility
(a) is of sturdy, safe construction, is easy to clean and is
free from hazards, and
(b) is placed so that it will not interfere with exits.
(2)  The licensee must ensure that the community care
facility is cleaned on a regular basis and that a reasonable level
of cleanliness is maintained at all times.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Discipline and abuse
31
(1)  The licensee must
(a) provide employees and parents with a written statement of
the community care facility's policy on discipline, and
(b) ensure that no person in care is, while under the care or
supervision of the licensee, subjected to any of the following,
including as a form of punishment:
(i)  shoving, hitting, shaking, spanking or any other form of
corporal punishment;
(ii)  harsh, belittling or degrading treatment, whether
verbal, emotional or physical, that would humiliate the person in
care or undermine the person in care's self respect;
(iii)  confinement, physical restraint or separation, without
adult supervision, from other persons in care;
(iv)  deprivation of meals, snacks, rest or necessary use of
a toilet.
(2)  The licensee must ensure that a person in care is not,
while under the care or supervision of the licensee, subjected to
emotional abuse, physical abuse, sexual abuse or neglect as those
terms are defined in Schedule F.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Program of activities
32
The licensee must provide to persons in care a comprehensive and
coordinated program of activities that
(a) is designed for the development, care and protection of
persons in care,
(b) is appropriate for the age and development of the persons
in care in each group in the community care facility, and
(c) meets the standards set out in Schedule D.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Play area
33
(1)  The licensee must ensure that, weather permitting,
persons in care enrolled in a community care facility, other than
in a residential care facility or a community care facility
defined in section 76, have regular daily play periods in an
outdoor play area that complies with the requirements of this
regulation.
(2)  The licensee of a residential care facility must ensure
that, weather permitting, persons in care have an opportunity for
outdoor activities each day.
(3)  The licensee must ensure that an outdoor play area in a
community care facility is enclosed by a fence.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Play materials and equipment
34
The licensee must ensure that
(a) all play materials and all indoor and outdoor play
equipment in a community care facility are suitable for the age
and development of the persons in care enrolled in the community
care facility, and
(b) all play materials are safe and all play equipment is
safely constructed, free from hazards and in good repair.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Nutrition
35
(1)  The licensee must ensure that
(a) a person in care who is present in a community care
facility for 2 or more hours in a day is provided with a
nutritious snack,
(b) in addition to the snack provided in paragraph (a), a
person in care who is present in a community care facility for 4
or more hours in a day is provided with a midday or evening meal
or both,
(c) in addition to food provided under paragraphs (a) and
(b), a person in care who is present in a community care facility
for 6 or more hours in a day is provided with a second nutritious
snack,
(d) in addition to the food provided under paragraphs (a) to
(c), a person in care to whom overnight care is provided in a
community care facility is provided with an evening nutritious
snack and a morning meal, and
(e) the food provided to a person in care is sufficient, in
quantity and kind, to supply the person in care with all or part
of the nutrient intake per day that is recommended by Health
Canada for children and youths in the relevant age group, taking
into consideration the number of hours the person in care is
present in the community care facility and the person in care's
food preferences and cultural background.
(2)  The licensee must ensure that a person in care is not
fed by means of a propped bottle.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Overnight care
36
The licensee of a community care facility as defined in section
37, 42, 52 or 57 may provide overnight care to a person in care as
long as the licensee, in addition to complying with the provisions
of this regulation applicable in respect of the facility,
(a) complies with the standards of care set out in Schedule
E, and
(b) has, if overnight sleeping accommodation is provided, a
satisfactory method of fire detection and second means of exit to
the ground level from each floor on which a sleeping room is
located.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Smoking
36.1
(1)  A person must not smoke in a community care facility
except in an area designated as a smoking area by the licensee.
(2)  The licensee must not designate as a smoking area an
area to which persons in care have access.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 1.]
Part 3 - Group Day Care, under 36 Months
Definitions
37
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who is under 36 months of age;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility in which group day care is
provided to children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
38
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 3.7 m
2
of floor area per child, excluding hallways, built in storage
areas and bathrooms,
(b) for each child, a sleeping arrangement that is not
located in an activity area and consists of,
(i)  a crib, where the child is shorter than 90 cm (35.43")
and is unable to climb out of the crib unaided, or
(ii)  a mattress not less than 7.5 cm in thickness or a cot
or equivalent sleeping arrangement, in any other case
with a clean washable mattress cover and clean washable covers,
(c) for every 12 children, one toilet and one wash basin on
the same floor as the community care facility,
(d) a container for soiled clothing and a changing table that
is not in the food preparation area,
(e) in addition to the wash basins required under paragraph
(c), a wash basin convenient to the changing table, and
(f) an outdoor play area that is large enough to provide 7 m
2
of play area per child.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 6; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
39
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 13 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 2 and 10 (b).]
Size of group
40
The licensee shall ensure that
(a) the children present in a community care facility are
divided into groups of not more than 12, and
(b) a separate area is available for each group of children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Staff to children ratio
41
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained as follows:
(a) for each group of 4 or fewer children, one infant and
toddler educator;
(b) for each group of 5 to 8 children, one infant and toddler
educator and one early childhood educator;
(c) for each group of 9 to 12 children,
(i)  one infant and toddler educator,
(ii)  one early childhood educator, and
(iii)  one assistant.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 4 - Group Day Care, 30 Months to School Age
Definitions
42
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who is at least 30 months of age on the date of
entrance to the community care facility and has not entered grade
1;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility in which group day care is
provided to children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
43
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 3.7 m
2
of floor area per child, excluding hallways, built in storage
areas and bathrooms,
(b) a sleeping arrangement for each child, consisting of
(i)  a mattress at least 7.5 cm in thickness, or
(ii)  a cot or equivalent arrangement
with a clean washable mattress cover and clean washable covers,
(c) for every 10 children, one toilet and one wash basin,
(d) a container for soiled clothing, and
(e) an outdoor play area that is large enough to provide 7 m2
of play area for each child.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 7; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
44
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 13 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 2 and 10 (b).]
Size of group and maximum number of children under 3
45
The licensee shall ensure that
(a) the children present in any one group are divided into
groups of not more than 25, and
(b) not more than 2 children under 36 months of age are
provided with care in any one group at any one time.
[am. B.C. Reg. 387/92, s. 10.]
Staff to children ratio
46
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained as follows:
(a) for each group of 8 or fewer children, one early
childhood educator;
(b) for each group of 9 to 16 children, one early childhood
educator and one assistant;
(c) for each group of 17 to 25 children,
(i)  one early childhood educator, and
(ii)  2 assistants.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 5 - Preschool, 30 Months to School Age
Definitions
47
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who
(a) is at least
(i)  30 months of age on the date of entrance to the
community care facility, and
(ii)  36 months of age on December 31 of the year of entrance
to the community care facility, and
(b) has not entered grade 1;
"community care facility"
means a preschool in which children are provided with
opportunities for social, emotional, physical and intellectual
growth.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
48
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 3.7 m
2
of floor area per child, excluding hallways, built in storage and
bathrooms,
(b) for every 10 children, one toilet and one wash basin, and
(c) an outdoor play area.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 8; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
49
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 4 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Size of group
50
The licensee shall ensure that the children present in a community
care facility are divided into groups of not more than 20.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Staff to children ratio
51
(1)  The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to
children present in a community care facility is maintained as
follows:
(a) for each group of 15 or fewer children, one early
childhood educator;
(b) for each group of 16 to 20 children, one early childhood
educator and one assistant.
(2)  Despite subsection (1) (b), if
(a) a community care facility has a parent education program
approved by the medical health officer, and
(b) a parent or substitute parent who has taken the program
is present in the community care facility to assist the early
childhood educator with a group of 16 to 20 children,
the licensee is not required to ensure that there is one assistant
for that group.
[am. B.C. Regs. 387/92, s. 11; 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 3 and 10
(b).]
Part 6 - Special Needs Day Care
Definitions
52
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who has not entered grade 1;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility in which group day care is
provided to children at least 25% of whom are special needs
children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
53
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 4 m
2
of floor area per child, excluding hallways, built in storage
areas and bathrooms,
(b) for each child who is provided with more than 4 hours of
care per day, a sleeping arrangement consisting of
(i)  if the child is shorter than 90 cm and unable to climb
out of a crib unaided, a crib, and
(ii)  in any other case, a mattress at least 7.5 cm in
thickness or a cot or equivalent arrangement
with a clean washable mattress cover and clean washable covers,
(c) for every 8 children, one toilet and one wash basin that
are readily accessible to the children,
(d) a container for soiled clothing and a changing table that
is not in the food preparation area,
(e) in addition to the wash basin required under paragraph
(c), a wash basin convenient to the changing table,
(f) if a child requiring mechanical aid for mobility is
enrolled in the community care facility,
(i)  a conveniently located and securely attached grab bar
beside at least one toilet, and
(ii)  a ramp for access to the community care facility, and
(g) an outdoor play area that is large enough to provide 7 m2
of play area for each child.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 9; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
54
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 13 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 2 and 10 (b).]
Size of group
55
The licensee shall ensure that
(a) the children present in a community care facility are
divided into groups,
(b) subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), each child is placed
in the group that is most appropriate for the child's needs,
(c) not more than 16 children are in one group, and
(d) not more than 12 children under 36 months of age are in
one group.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Staff to children ratio
56
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained as follows:
(a) for each group of 4 or fewer children, one special needs
early childhood educator;
(b) for each group of 5 to 8 children, one special needs
early childhood educator and one early childhood educator;
(c) for each group of 9 to 12 children, one special needs
early childhood educator and 2 early childhood educators;
(d) for each group of 13 to 16 children,
(i)  one special needs early childhood educator,
(ii)  2 early childhood educators, and
(iii)  one assistant.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 7 - Family Child Care
Definitions
57
In this Part:
"child"
means a person under 13 years of age;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility in which family child care is
provided, if the community care facility is the licensee's primary
place of residence;
"family child care"
means the provision, primarily by the licensee, of
(a) care to children, and
(b) opportunities for the social, emotional, physical and
intellectual growth of children.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, ss. 10 and 11; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 4.]
Requirements for community care facility
58
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) a sleeping arrangement for each child consisting of
(i)  where the child is shorter than 90 cm and unable to
climb out of a crib unaided, a crib, and
(ii)  in any other case, a mattress at least 7.5 cm in
thickness or a cot or equivalent arrangement
with a clean washable mattress cover and clean washable covers,
(b) a container for soiled clothing and a changing table that
is not in the food preparation area,
(c) an indoor play area, and
(d) an outdoor play area.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 12; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
59
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 13 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 2 and 10 (b).]
Maximum number of children
60
(1)  The licensee must ensure that not more than a total of 7
children are cared for or live in a community care facility at one
time, and, within this total number, the licensee must ensure that
(a) not more than 5 children are preschool age;
(b) not more than 3 children are under 3 years of age;
(c) not more than 1 child is under the age of 12 months.
(2)  For the purposes of this section
"child"
does not include a person who is 12 years of age or older and who
is related by blood or marriage to the licensee or care provider.
[en. B.C. Reg. 145/95, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 13;
217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 8 - Out of School Care
Definitions
61
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who
(a) attends school, and
(b) is under 13 years of age;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility for out of school care;
"out of school care"
means the provision of care, before and after school hours and
during school holidays, for children attending school;
"school"
includes kindergarten.
[am. B.C. Regs. 461/98, s. 4; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
62
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 3 m
2
of floor area per child, excluding hallways, built in storage and
bathrooms,
(b) for every 15 children, one toilet and one wash basin, and
(c) an outdoor play area.
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 14; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
63
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 13 hours of care per day.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b)]
Size of group
64
(1)  Where any child present in a community care facility is
in kindergarten or grade 1, the licensee shall ensure that the
children are divided into groups of not more than 20.
(2)  Where every child present in a community care facility
is in a grade higher than grade 1, the licensee shall ensure that
the children are divided into groups of not more than 25.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b)]
Staff to children ratio
65
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained as follows:
(a) where any child present in a group in the community care
facility is in kindergarten or grade 1,
(i)  one responsible adult for every group of 10 or fewer
children, and
(ii)  2 responsible adults for every group of 11 to 20
children;
(b) where every child present in a group in the community
care facility is in a grade higher than grade 1,
(i)  one responsible adult for every group of 15 or fewer
children, and
(ii)  2 responsible adults for every group of 16 to 25
children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b)]
Part 9 - Residential Care
Repealed
66
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 5.]
Age of persons in care
66.1
A licensee must ensure that each person in care in a residential
care facility is less than 19 years of age.
[en. B.C. Reg. 457/2004, Sch. 2, s. 5.]
Requirements for facility
67
(1)  The licensee shall provide in a residential care
facility
(a) a dining area
(i)  with at least 1 m
2
of floor space per person in care, and
(ii)  that allows a person in care requiring a wheelchair to
eat at a table while seated in the wheelchair,
(b) a suitably furnished indoor activity room with at least 1
m
2
of floor space per person in care for the maximum number of
persons in care using the room at any one time,
(c) for every 5 persons in care, one toilet and one wash
basin, and
(d) for every 10 persons in care, one bathtub equipped with
shower.
(2)  If a building or structure is licensed for residential
care under section 4 (1) (b) (ii) of the Act on or after the
effective date of this subsection, the licensee must provide in
the building or structure
(a) interconnecting smoke alarms, installed in each bedroom
and in each corridor leading to a bedroom,
(b) sprinklers which comply with the requirements of NFPA 13D
(standard for the installation of sprinkler systems in one- and
two-family dwellings and mobile homes) and have had the plans,
design and installation approved (to include sprinklers in all
washrooms) and a program of routine testing of the system
approved,
(c) an approved adequate water supply for fire fighting,
(d) not less than a 45 minute fire separation between each
garage attached to the building or structure, and
(e) emergency lighting which will automatically illuminate
the corridors and stairs for a minimum of 30 minutes in the event
of a power failure.
[am. B.C. Regs. 376/93, Sch. A; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (a).]
Repealed
67.1
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 5.]
Disabled persons in care
68
Where a person in care requiring mechanical aid for mobility
resides in a residential care facility, the licensee shall ensure
that
(a) the window sill of the person in care's bedroom is not
more than 80 cm above the floor,
(b) the person in care has access to all public areas,
entrances and exits, and
(c) the washroom is suitably equipped for the person in
care's needs.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (a).]
Sleeping accommodation
69
(1)  The licensee shall ensure
(a) that
(i)  no person in care is required to share a bedroom except
with one other person in care, and
(ii)  no person in care over 6 years of age is required to
share a bedroom with another person in care unless both persons in
care are of the same sex, and
(b) that each bedroom complies with and is furnished in
accordance with the standards set out in subsections (2) to (8).
(2)  The floor area of the bedroom, excluding clothes
closets, must be at least
(a) where one person in care is accommodated, 7.4 m
2
, or
(b) where more than one person in care is accommodated, 5.6 m
2
per person in care.
(3)  For each person in care requiring a wheelchair, a floor
area of not less than 1 m
2
per person in care must be provided in addition to the floor area
required under subsection (2).
(4)  The bedroom must be dry, well ventilated and directly
accessible from a hall without passing through another room.
(5)  The bedroom must have an exterior window
(a) with a glass area equal to not less than 10% of the floor
area of the room, and
(b) that, where air conditioning is not provided, can be
opened for ventilation.
(6)  The bedroom must have sufficient artificial lighting to
provide a minimum of 300 lx of general lighting and a minimum of
500 lx of lighting at the person in care's bed and chair.
(7)  Each person in care must be provided with
(a) a bed for the exclusive use of the person in care, and
(b) additional furniture, appropriate for the age level of
the person in care, for storage of clothing and possessions.
(8)  Where 2 persons in care are accommodated in one bedroom
in which personal care is given, screening must be provided.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (a).]
Staff to persons in care ratio
70
(1)  The licensee shall maintain at all times a ratio of
staff to persons in care present appropriate to the needs of the
persons in care and the type of care required.
(2)  In this section
"staff"
means responsible adults.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (a).]
Part 10 - Emergency Care
Definitions
71
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who has not entered grade 1;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility for emergency care;
"emergency care"
means the provision, on a short term basis, of care, including
emotional support and an opportunity for social and intellectual
development, in a group setting for children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
72
(1)  Section 43 (a) to (d) applies in respect of a community
care facility.
(2)  The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
an outdoor play area that is
(a) readily accessible from the community care facility.
(b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 15.]
[am. B.C. Regs. 395/95, s. 15; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
73
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with not more than 72 hours of care per calendar month.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Size of group
74
The licensee shall ensure that
(a) children under 3 years of age who are present in a
community care facility are divided into groups of not more than
12, and
(b) children 3 years of age or more who are present in a
community care facility are divided into groups of not more than
25.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Staff to children ratio
75
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained in accordance
with
(a) section 41, for children under 3 years of age, and
(b) section 46, for children 3 years of age or more.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 11 - Child Minding, 18 Months to School Age
Definitions
76
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who is at least 18 months of age and has not
entered grade 1;
"child minding"
means the provision of supervised group care for children;
"community care facility"
means a child minding community care facility.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
77
The licensee shall provide in a community care facility
(a) 3 m
2
of floor space per child, excluding hallways, built in storage and
bathrooms,
(b) for every 10 children, one toilet and one wash basin,
(c) a container for soiled clothing and a changing table, and
(d) in addition to the wash basin required under paragraph
(b), a wash basin convenient to the changing table.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
78
The licensee shall provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with
(a) not more than 3 hours of care per day, and
(b) not more than 2 days of care per week.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Size of group
79
(1)  Where any child present in a group is under 3 years of
age, the licensee shall ensure that the children are divided into
groups of not more than 16.
(2)  Where every child present in a group is 3 years of age
or more, the licensee shall ensure that the children are divided
into groups of not more than 20.
[am. B.C. Reg. 387/92, s. 12.]
Staff to children ratio
80
The licensee shall ensure that the ratio of staff to children
present in a community care facility is maintained as follows:
(a) where every child in a group is 3 years of age or more,
(i)  one responsible adult for each group of 8 or fewer
children,
(ii)  2 responsible adults for each group of 9 to 16
children, and
(iii)  3 responsible adults for each group of 17 to 20
children;
(b) where a child in a group is under 3 years of age,
(i)  one responsible adult for each group of 4 or fewer
children,
(ii)  2 responsible adults for each group of 5 to 8 children,
(iii)  3 responsible adults for each group of 9 to 12
children, and
(iv)  4 responsible adults for each group of 13 to 16
children.
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (b).]
Part 11.1 - Occasional Child Care at Ski Hill or Resort
Definitions
80.1
In this Part:
"child"
means a person who is at least 18 months of age and under 6 years
of age;
"community care facility"
means a community care facility for the provision of occasional,
casual, short term, supervised care for children at a ski hill or
a resort;
"place"
means a place as described in section 80.3.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Maximum number of hours of care
80.2
The licensee must not provide a child enrolled in a community care
facility with
(a) more than 40 hours of care during a calendar month, and
(b) more than 8 hours of care a day.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Size of group
80.3
(1)  A licensee must include each child in a community care
facility in a group that
(a) contains not more than 24 places at any one time,
(b) has the required number of responsible adult staff
members specified under section 80.4, and
(c) has a separate area available for use of the children in
the group.
(2)  Provided that the requirements of subsection (1) are met
for each group, there may be more than one group at a community
care facility.
(3)  For the purpose of calculating the number of places in a
group,
(a) each child over 36 months of age in the group must be
considered to be occupying one of these places, and
(b) each child 36 months of age or younger in the group must
be considered to be occupying two of these places.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Staff to child ratio
80.4
A licensee must ensure that the ratio of staff to children in a
group at the community care facility at any one time is at least
(a) 1 responsible adult staff member for 7 or fewer places,
(b) 2 responsible adult staff members for 8 places to 16
places, and
(c) 3 responsible adult staff members for 17 places to 24
places.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Requirements for use of a community care facility
80.5
The licensee must ensure that the parent of a child in the
community care facility is actively participating in a
recreational activity offered at the resort or ski hill.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Requirements for community care facility
80.6
The licensee must provide in a community care facility
(a) 3 m
2
of floor space for each child, excluding hallways, bathrooms, food
preparation areas, storage areas, staff office, or any other area
not used by children as an activity area,
(b) for every 10 children, one toilet and one wash basin,
(c) a container for soiled clothing, and
(d) a sleeping arrangement for each child, consisting of
(i)  a mattress at least 7.5 cm in thickness with clean
washable mattress cover and clean washable covers, or
(ii)  a cot with clean washable covers.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Special requirements for children less than 36 months old
80.7
(1)  The licensee must provide for each child less than 36
months of age who will receive care in the community care facility
for more than 4 hours a day, a separate sleeping area located away
from an activity area that consists of a crib, if the child is
shorter than 90 cm and is unable to climb out of the crib unaided,
or
(a) a mattress not less than 7.5 cm in thickness, or
(b) a cot.
(2)  A crib or mattress under subsection (1) must include a
clean, waterproof, washable mattress cover and clean washable
covers.
(3)  A cot under subsection (1) must include clean washable
covers.
(4)  A community care facility for children less than 36
months of age must include
(a) a diaper changing area adjacent to the activity area, but
not in the food preparation area,
(b) a diaper changing table with a surface that is padded,
non-absorbent and easy to clean, and
(c) in addition to the wash basins required under section
80.6 (b), a wash basin convenient to the changing table.
[en. B.C. Reg. 395/95, s. 16; am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s.
10 (b).]
Part 12 - Transitional and Commencement
Transitional
81
(1)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 5.]
(2)  Sections 38 (a), 43 (a) and 48 (a) do not apply in
respect of a facility if a licence was issued for the facility
before this section comes into force.
[am. B.C. Regs. 387/92, s. 13; 217/2004, App. 2, s. 5.]
Repealed
82
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 5.]
Transitional — letters of permission
83
(1)  Despite the re-enactment of section 11, a person holding
a letter of permission issued before the re-enactment of section
11 may continue to exercise the benefits and privileges acquired
under the letter in accordance with any terms or conditions
contained in the letter until the earlier of
(a) the expiry of the letter of permission, or
(b) June 1, 2005.
(2)  This section is repealed effective June 1, 2005.
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 6.]
Schedule A— Repealed
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 199/96, s. 2 (b).]
Schedule B— Early Childhood Education Programs
[en. B.C. Reg. 66/2004; am. B.C. Reg. 457/2004, Sch. 2, s. 6.]
(sections 9 to 11)
1 Basic Early Childhood Education Programs
Burnaby College, Vancouver Campus
Burnaby School District No. 41
Camosun College
Capilano College
Century College, Vancouver Campus
College of New Caledonia
College of the Rockies
Columbia Bible College
Delta School Board No. 37
Douglas College
Langara College
Langley College
Lethbridge Community College, Alberta (*One year certificate
program plus additional courses for BC)
MTI Community College
Malaspina University College
Metro Training Inc.
Montessori Training Centre of BC
Nicola Valley Institute of Technology
North Island College
North Shore Career Centre
Northern Lights College
Northwest Community College
Okanagan University College
Pacific Rim Early Childhood Institute Inc.
Ridge Meadows College
Selkirk College
University College of the Cariboo
University College of the Fraser Valley
University of Victoria, School of Child and Youth Care
University of Victoria First Nations Partnerships Programs
Vancouver Career College, Coquitlam Campus
Vancouver Community College
Yukon College, Yukon
2 Post-basic Early Childhood Education Programs
(a) Special needs
Burnaby College, Vancouver Campus
Burnaby School District No. 41
Camosun College
Capilano College
College of New Caledonia
College of the Rockies
Columbia Bible College
Delta School Board No. 37
Douglas College
Langara College
Langley College
Malaspina University College
North Island College
Northern Lights College
Northwest Community College
Okanagan University College
Pacific Rim Early Childhood Institute Inc.
Selkirk College
University College of the Cariboo
University College of the Fraser Valley
University of Victoria, School of Child and Youth Care
University of Victoria First Nations Partnerships Programs
Vancouver Community College
(b) Infant and Toddler
Burnaby College, Vancouver Campus
Burnaby School District No. 41
Camosun College
Capilano College
College of New Caledonia
College of the Rockies
Columbia Bible College
Delta School Board No. 37
Douglas College
Langara College
Langley College
Malaspina University College
North Island College
Northern Lights College
Northwest Community College
Okanagan University College
Pacific Rim Early Childhood Institute Inc.
Selkirk College
University College of the Cariboo
University College of the Fraser Valley
University of Victoria First Nations Partnerships Programs
Vancouver Community College
Schedule C— First Aid Training Programs
[en. B.C. Reg. 66/2004; am. B.C. Regs. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 7;
457/2004, Sch. 2, s. 7.]
(section 22)
1
Academy of Emergency Training
• First Aid
2
ALT International Inc.
• Emergency First Aid
• Standard First Aid
• Aquatic First Responder
• First Aid Training for Child Day Care Providers
3
Botkin's First Care First Aid
• Botkin's First Aid
4
Canadian Red Cross
• Emergency First Aid
• Standard First Aid
• Standard First Aid Recertification
• Child Safe
• Child Care First Aid
5
University College of the Fraser Valley
• Childhood Emergency Management
6
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 457/2004, Sch. 2, s. 7 (a).]
7
Cross Safety Services
• Family First Aid for Children
8
Okanagan First Aid Training Ltd.
• First Aid Course
9
Care Institute of Safety and Health Inc.
• First Aid Treating Your Children
10
EMP Canada
• Pediatric Medic First Aid
11
Warren Delaney
• Safety Awareness and First Aid for Childhood Emergencies
12
St. John Ambulance — First on the Scene
• Emergency Child Care
• Standard Level — Plus
• Standard Level — Enhanced
• Standard First Aid Safety Oriented for Industry (Option 2)
• Standard First Aid Safety Oriented for Industry (Option 3)
13
HeartSafe Emergency Medical Solutions
Schedule D— Program Standards
[am. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 10 (a).]
(section 29)
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT:
• Provide indoor and outdoor activities that encourage the
development of large and small muscle skills appropriate to each
person in care's level of development.
• Promote the development of self-help skills.
• Encourage good health and safety habits.
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT:
• Develop a flexible daily program that responds to the needs and
interests of the persons in care.
• Provide an environment that facilitates the development of
curiosity, reasoning and problem-solving skills.
• Provide age-appropriate activities which encourage development of
the following concept-building skills: classifying, ordering,
determining direction and perceiving spatial relationships.
• Provide activities and materials that encourage creative
endeavours such as art, music, movement, imaginative play,
story-telling and construction.
• Provide activities and materials that foster a greater
understanding of the environment.
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT:
• Model good language and listening skills.
• Provide opportunities for persons in care to develop receptive and
expressive language skills.
• Encourage communication.
EMOTIONAL DEVELOPMENT:
• Help persons in care develop a positive self-concept.
• Help persons in care develop an accurate perception of self.
• Help persons in care express positive and negative feelings in
appropriate ways.
• Provide a comfortable atmosphere in which persons in care feel
proud of their cultural heritage and cultural sharing is encouraged.
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
• Provide an environment for persons in care to work independently
and to share and work cooperatively in small groups.
• Provide an environment that fosters positive behaviour in persons
in care.
• Help persons in care appreciate differences and respect the
personal feelings and property of others.
• Provide opportunities for social interactions that help persons in
care develop appropriate skills for social relationships.
• Provide experiences that facilitate a person in care's feeling of
belonging to family, community and the world at large.
Schedule E— Standards for Overnight Care
[am. B.C. Regs. 67/99; 217/2004, App. 2, ss. 8 and 10 (a) and (b).]
(section 33)
1
No more than 4 persons in care may be accommodated in one room.
2
No person in care over 6 years of age may be accommodated in a room
shared by another person in care of the opposite sex without direct
staff supervision.
3
There must be a minimum of 5 m
2
floor space per person in care in the sleeping area.
4
The sleeping area must be
(a)  directly accessible without passing through another
sleeping area,
(b)  dry, well ventilated and free from draughts, and
(c)  clean and free from clutter and other extraneous or
unsafe matter.
5
Each person in care must be provided
(a)  with
(i) a crib, if the person in care is shorter than 90 cm
(35.43") and is unable to climb out of the crib unaided, or
(ii) a cot or bed, in any other case, and
(b)  with a clean mattress and sufficient sheets and
coverings for warmth and comfort.
6
Cribs, cots and beds must be arranged so as to allow easy access to
each person in care with a minimum of 90 cm (3') of space on at
least 2 sides of each crib, cot or bed.
7
Notwithstanding any other provision of this regulation, one shower
or bathtub must be provided for every 10 persons in care and
adequate hot water must be provided.
8
No animals may be permitted in the sleeping area.
9
If 3 or more persons in care are sleeping overnight in a community
care facility,
(a)  a responsible adult must at all times
(i) be awake and accessible to the persons in care, or
(ii) be sleeping in the same room as the persons in care, and
(b)  the number of other staff required to maintain the
applicable ratio of staff to persons in care must be available in
the community care facility.
10
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 8 (b).]
Schedule F —Reportable Incidents
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 9.]
[section 22]
1
For the purpose of this regulation, any of the following is a
reportable incident:
"aggressive or unusual behaviour"
means aggressive or unusual behaviour by a person in care towards
other persons, including another person in care, which has not
been appropriately assessed in the individual's care plan;
"attempted suicide"
means an attempt by a person in care to take his or her own life;
"death"
means any death of a person in care;
"disease outbreak or occurrence"
means an outbreak or the occurrence of a disease above the
incident level that is normally expected;
"emergency restraint"
means any use of a restraint that is not approved and documented
in the care plan of a person in care;
"emotional abuse"
means any act, or lack of action, which may diminish the sense of
well-being of a person in care, perpetrated by a person not in
care, such as verbal harassment, yelling or confinement;
"fall"
means a fall of such seriousness, experienced by a person in care,
as to require emergency care by a physician or transfer to a
hospital;
"financial abuse"
means
(a) the misuse of the funds and assets of a person in care by
a person not in care, or
(b) the obtaining of the property and funds of a person in
care by a person not in care without the knowledge and full
consent of the person in care or their substitute decision maker;
"medication error"
means an error in the administration of a medication which
adversely affects a person in care or requires emergency
intervention or transfer to a hospital;
"missing or wandering person"
means a person in care who is missing;
"motor vehicle injury"
means an injury to a person in care that occurs during transit by
motor vehicle while the person is under the care and supervision
of the licensee;
"neglect"
means the failure of a care provider to meet the needs of a person
in care, including food, shelter, care or supervision;
"other injury"
means an injury to a person in care requiring emergency care by a
physician or transfer to a hospital;
"physical abuse"
means any physical force that is excessive for, or is
inappropriate to, a situation involving a person in care and
perpetrated by a person not in care;
"poisoning"
means the ingestion of a poison or toxic substance by a person in
care;
"service delivery problem"
means any condition or event which could reasonably be expected to
impair the ability of the licensee, or the employees of the
licensee, to provide care or which affects the health, safety or
well-being of persons in care;
"sexual abuse"
means any sexual behaviour directed towards a person in care by an
employee of the licensee, a volunteer or any other person in a
position of trust, power or authority and includes
(a) any sexual exploitation, whether consensual or not, and
(b) sexual activity between persons in care if the difference
in age or power between them is so significant that the older or
more powerful person in care is clearly taking sexual advantage of
the younger or less powerful person in care;
"unexpected illness"
means any unexpected illness of such seriousness that it requires
a person in care to receive emergency care by a physician or
transfer to a hospital.
Schedule G —Exemptions
[en. B.C. Reg. 217/2004, App. 2, s. 9; am. B.C. Reg. 457/2004, Sch.
2, s. 8.]
[Exemptions not permitted — section 2 (3)]
1
For the purposes of section 16 of the Act, a medical health officer
may grant an exemption from any but the following sections of the
Act:
1
[definitions]
;
2
[application]
;
5
[operating or advertising without a licence]
;
6
[age of licensee or manager]
;
7 (1) (a), (b) and (d)
[standards to be maintained]
;
8
[certification of educators of children]
;
18 (2) and (3)
[certain advertisements or inducements prohibited]
;
22
[protection for persons who report]
.
2
For the purposes of section 16 of the Act, a medical health officer
may grant an exemption from any but the following sections of the
regulation:
1
[definitions]
;
5
[criminal record checks]
;
9
[qualifications for an early childhood educator certificate]
;
10
[qualifications for other certificates]
;
13
[expiry and renewal of a certificate]
;
14
[variation, suspension or cancellation of a certificate]
;
18
[supervision of persons in care]
;
23 (1) and (2)
[notification of illness or injury]
;
31
[discipline and abuse]
;
83
[transitional — letters of permission]
.
[Provisions of the
Community Care and Assisted Living Act
, S.B.C. 2002, c. 75, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 34]
