"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Public Service Act
Standards of Conduct for Political Staff Regulation
B.C. Reg. 67/2014
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Schedule
December 2, 2019
February 14, 2022
Schedule BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 253/2019, effective December 2,
2019.
Schedule
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR POLITICAL STAFF
"Political staff" are persons appointed under section 15(1)(a) of
the
Public Service Act
who report through to the Chief of Staff to the Premier or provide
support to a Minister, and who are not assigned job duties primarily
of an administrative, technical or communications nature. Most
appointees working in the Office of the Premier and supporting
Ministers' offices are political staff (e.g., Chiefs of Staff,
Ministerial Assistants and Executive Assistants). Appointees to
Government Communications and Public Engagement are not political
staff. See
Schedule 1
for a listing of political staff job titles.
Political staff will exhibit the highest standards of conduct. Their
conduct must instil confidence and trust and not bring the Province
of British Columbia into disrepute.
The requirement to comply with these standards of conduct is a
condition of employment. Political staff who fail to comply with
these standards may be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including dismissal.
The Standards of Conduct for Political Staff closely resemble the
Standards of Conduct applicable to employees of the BC Public
Service
. However, the Standards of Conduct for Political Staff recognize
the unique, partisan role performed by political staff and provide
guidance on how political staff may exercise their partisan duties
while also respecting the non-partisan role of employees in the BC
Public Service.
Role of Political Staff
Political staff are generally employed to help Ministers on matters
where the non-political and political work of Government overlap and
where it would be inappropriate for permanent public servants to
become involved. Political staff serve as advisors and assistants
who share the ruling party's political commitment, and who can
complement the professional, expert and non-partisan advice and
support of the permanent public service.
Many political staff report directly to their Minister's Chief of
Staff, who is responsible for the overall management of the
Minister's Office including managing the office budget and
personnel. Political staff should ask their Chief of Staff, or other
manager or supervisor to whom they report, if they have any
questions regarding their role and responsibilities.
Loyalty
Political staff have a duty of loyalty to the government as their
employer. They must act honestly and in good faith and place the
interests of the employer ahead of their own private interests. The
duty committed to in the Political Staff Oath requires political
staff to serve the government of the day to the best of their
ability.
Confidentiality
Confidential information, in any form, that political staff receive
through their employment must not be disclosed, released, or
transmitted to anyone other than persons who are authorized to
receive the information. Political staff with care or control of
personal or sensitive information, electronic media, or devices must
handle and dispose of these appropriately. Staff who are in doubt as
to whether certain information is confidential must ask the
appropriate authority before disclosing, releasing, or transmitting
it.
The proper handling and protection of confidential information is
applicable both within and outside of government and continues to
apply after the employment relationship ends.
Confidential information that political staff receive through their
employment must not be used for the purpose of furthering any
private interest, or as a means of making personal gains. (See the
Conflicts of Interest section below for details.)
Public Comments
Political staff may comment on public issues but must not engage in
any activity or speak publicly where this could be perceived as an
official act or representation (unless authorized to do so). Staff
must not use their position in government to lend weight to the
public expression of their personal opinions.
Service to the Public
Political staff must provide service to the public in a manner that
is courteous, professional, equitable, efficient, and effective.
Staff must be sensitive and responsive to the changing needs,
expectations, and rights of a diverse public in the proper
performance of their duties.
Workplace Behaviour
Political staff are to treat each other with respect and dignity and
must not engage in discriminatory conduct prohibited by the
Human Rights Code
. The prohibited grounds are race, colour, ancestry, place of
origin, religion, family status, marital status, physical
disability, mental disability, sex, sexual orientation, age,
political belief or conviction of a criminal or summary offence
unrelated to the individual's employment.
Further, the conduct of political staff in the workplace must meet
acceptable social standards and must contribute to a positive work
environment. Bullying or any other inappropriate conduct
compromising the integrity of the Province of BC will not be
tolerated.
All political staff may expect and have the responsibility to
contribute to a safe workplace. Violence in the workplace is
unacceptable. Violence is any use of physical force on an individual
that causes or could cause injury and includes an attempt or
threatened use of force.
Political staff must report any incident of violence. Any staff who
become aware of a threat must report that threat if there is
reasonable cause to believe that the threat poses a risk of injury.
Any incident or threat of violence in the workplace must be
addressed immediately.
Staff must report a safety hazard or unsafe condition or act in
accordance with the provisions of the WorkSafeBC
Occupational Health and Safety Regulations
.
Interactions with the Permanent Public Service
In meeting their responsibility to respect the non-partisanship of
ministry staff, political staff have an obligation to inform
themselves about the appropriate parameters of conduct set out in
the
Standards of Conduct for Public Service Employees
, and to actively assess their own conduct and any requests they
make to ministry employees in the light of those parameters.
To the extent practicable, relations between political staff and
ministry staff should be conducted through the Deputy Minister's
Office. The Deputy Minister's Office should be informed about any
significant contact between political staff and ministry employees.
Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Ministers' Chiefs of Staff should be
vigilant in ensuring the appropriate parameters of interaction
between political staff and ministry staff are observed.
Political staff may ask ministry employees for information, transmit
the Minister's instructions, or be informed of decisions in order to
address communications and strategic issues. However, they do not
have a direct role in ministry operations and have no legal basis
for exercising the delegated authority of Ministers. Nor may
political staff give direction to ministry employees on the
discharge of their responsibilities.
Examples of appropriate and inappropriate conduct include, but are
not limited to, the following:
Appropriate Conduct
Inappropriate Conduct
► Convey to ministry employees the Minister's view of issues
and direction on work priorities;
► Request ministry employees prepare information and analyses;
► Hold meetings with ministry employees to discuss advice
being prepared for the Minister.
► Ask a ministry employee to do anything inconsistent with
their obligations under the Standards of Conduct;
► Authorize the expenditure of public funds, have
responsibility for budgets, or have any involvement in the
awarding of external contracts;
► Exercise any power in relation to the management of
employees within their ministry (except in relation to other
political staff);
► Suppress or supplant advice prepared for the Minister by
ministry employees (although they may comment on such advice).
Conflicts of Interest
A conflict of interest occurs when a political staff member's
private affairs or financial interests are in conflict, or could
result in a perception of conflict, with the staff member's duties
or responsibilities in such a way that:
• the staff member's ability to act in the public interest could be
impaired; or
• the staff member's actions or conduct could undermine or
compromise:
o the public's confidence in the staff member's ability to discharge
work responsibilities; or
o the trust that the public places in the Province of BC.
While the government recognizes the right of political staff to be
involved in activities as citizens of the community, conflict must
not exist between their private interests and the discharge of their
employment duties. Upon appointment, political staff must arrange
their private affairs in a manner that will prevent conflicts of
interest, or the perception of conflicts of interest, from arising.
Political staff who find themselves in an actual, perceived, or
potential conflict of interest must disclose the matter to their
supervisor, manager, or Chief of Staff. Examples of conflicts of
interest include, but are not limited to, the following:
• A staff member uses government property or equipment or their
position, office, or government affiliation to pursue personal
interests or the interests of another organization;
• A staff member is in a situation where they are under obligation
to a person who might benefit from or seek to gain special
consideration or favour;
• A staff member, in the performance of official duties, gives
preferential treatment to an individual, corporation, or
organization, including a non-profit organization, in which the
staff member, or a relative or friend, has an interest, financial or
otherwise;
• A staff member benefits from, or is reasonably perceived by the
public to have benefited from, the use of information acquired
solely by reason of their employment;
• A staff member benefits from, or is reasonably perceived by the
public to have benefited from, a government transaction over which
they can influence decisions (for example, investments, sales,
purchases, borrowing, grants, contracts, regulatory or discretionary
approvals, appointments);
• A staff member accepts from an individual, corporation, or
organization, directly or indirectly, a personal gift or benefit
that arises out of their employment with the Province of BC, other
than:
o the exchange of hospitality between persons doing business
together;
o tokens exchanged as part of protocol;
o the normal presentation of gifts to persons participating in
public functions; or
o the normal exchange of gifts between friends; or
• A staff member accepts gifts, donations, or free services for
work-related leisure activities other than in situations outlined
above.
The following four criteria, when taken together, are intended to
guide the judgment of political staff who are considering the
acceptance of a gift:
• The benefit is of nominal value;
• The exchange creates no obligation;
• Reciprocation is easy; and
• It occurs infrequently.
Political staff will not solicit a gift, benefit, or service on
behalf of themselves or other employees.
Allegations of Wrongdoing
Political staff have a duty to report any situation relevant to
their employment that they believe contravenes the law, misuses
public funds or assets, or represents a danger to public health and
safety or a significant danger to the environment. Staff can expect
such matters to be treated in confidence, unless disclosure of
information is authorized or required by law (for example, the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
). Staff will not be subject to discipline or reprisal for
bringing forward to a Chief of Staff, in good faith, allegations of
wrongdoing in accordance with this policy statement.
Political staff must report their allegations or concerns in writing
to their Chief of Staff or the Chief of Staff to the Premier, who
will acknowledge receipt of the submission and have the matter
reviewed and responded to in writing within 30 days of receiving the
staff member's submission. Where an allegation involves a Chief of
Staff, the employee must forward the allegation to the Chief of
Staff to the Premier. Where an allegation involves the Chief of
Staff to the Premier, the allegation must be forwarded to the Deputy
Minister to the Premier.
In addition to these reporting requirements, it is expected
political staff will also report to the Comptroller General any
irregularities related to the expenditure of public funds as
outlined in Section 33.2 of the
Financial Administration Act
.
Where a political staff member believes that the matter requires a
resolution and it has not been reasonably resolved by their
employer, they may then refer the allegation to the appropriate
authority.
If the staff member decides to pursue the matter further then:
• Allegations of criminal activity are to be referred to the police;
• Allegations of a misuse of public funds are to be referred to the
Auditor General;
• Allegations of a danger to public health must be brought to the
attention of health authorities; and
• Allegations of a significant danger to the environment must be
brought to the attention of the Deputy Minister, Ministry of
Environment.
Legal Proceedings
Political staff must not sign affidavits relating to facts that have
come to their knowledge in the course of their employment duties for
use in court proceedings unless the affidavit has been prepared by a
lawyer acting for government in that proceeding or unless it has
been approved by a ministry solicitor in the Legal Services Branch,
Ministry of Attorney General. Political staff are obliged to
cooperate with lawyers defending the Crown's interest during legal
proceedings.
A written opinion prepared on behalf of government by any legal
counsel is privileged and is, therefore, not to be released without
prior approval of the Legal Services Branch.
Working Relationships
Political staff involved in a personal relationship outside work
which compromises objectivity, or the perception of objectivity,
should avoid being placed in a direct reporting relationship to one
another. For example, staff who are direct relatives or who
permanently reside together may not be employed in situations where:
• A reporting relationship exists where one staff member has
influence, input, or decision-making power over the other's
performance evaluation, salary, premiums, special permissions,
conditions of work, and similar matters; or
• The working relationship affords an opportunity for collusion
between the two staff members that would have a detrimental effect
on the Employer's interest.
The above restriction on working relationships may be waived
provided that the Chief of Staff to the Premier is satisfied that
sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure that the employer's
interests are not compromised.
Human Resource Decisions
Political staff are to disqualify themselves as participants in
human resource decisions when their objectivity would be compromised
for any reason or a benefit or perceived benefit could accrue to
them.
For example, staff are not to participate in staffing actions
involving direct relatives or persons living in the same household.
Outside Remunerative and Volunteer Work
Political staff may hold jobs outside government, carry on a
business, receive remuneration from public funds for activities
outside their position, or engage in volunteer activities provided
it does not:
• interfere with the performance of their employment duties;
• bring the government into disrepute;
• represent a conflict of interest or create the reasonable
perception of a conflict of interest;
• appear to be an official act or to represent government opinion or
policy;
• involve the unauthorized use of work time or government premises,
services, equipment, or supplies; or
• gain an advantage that is derived from their employment with the
Province of BC.
Political staff who are appointed as directors or officers of Crown
corporations are not to receive any additional remuneration beyond
the reimbursement of appropriate travel expenses except as approved
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Responsibilities
Chief of Staff to the Premier and Deputy Chief of Staff to the
Premier
• Provide timely advice to Chiefs of Staff respecting the
application of this policy statement including guidance on an
appropriate employer response to transgressions of this policy;
• Coordinate the development of awareness, training, and
communication programs in support of this policy; and
• Consult with the Head of the BC Public Service Agency as required
to address complex issues.
Chiefs of Staff
• Advise political staff of the required standards of conduct and
the consequences of non-compliance;
• Promote a work environment that is free of discrimination;
• Deal with breaches of this policy in a timely manner, taking the
appropriate action based upon the facts and circumstances, and
conferring with the Chief of Staff to the Premier as appropriate;
• Waive the provision on working relationships under the
circumstances indicated; and
• Delegate authority and responsibility, where applicable, to apply
this policy within their organization.
Political Staff
• Fulfil their assigned duties and responsibilities, regardless of
the party or persons in power and regardless of their personal
opinions;
• Disclose and resolve conflicts of interest or potential conflict
of interest situations in which they find themselves;
• Maintain appropriate workplace behaviour;
• Avoid engaging in discriminatory conduct or comment; and
• Check with their supervisor, Chief of Staff or Chief of Staff to
the Premier when they are uncertain about any aspect of this policy.
Standards of Conduct for Political Staff: Schedule 1 – Political
Staff Job Titles
Political staff must swear the Political Staff Oath and abide by the
Standards of Conduct for Political Staff. All other section
15(1)(a) appointees must abide by the Standards of Conduct
applicable to other public service employees.
Political staff are persons appointed under section 15(1)(a) of the
Public Service Act
who are not assigned job duties primarily of an administrative,
technical or communications nature including those appointed to the
following positions:
• Executive Assistant to a Minister
• Ministerial Assistant
• Ministerial Chief of Staff
Schedule BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 25/2022, effective February 14,
2022.
Schedule
[en. B.C. Reg. 253/2019.]
