"point in time" regulation content Railway act Part vi: visual acuity, colour perception and hearing of railway Employees regulations B.c. reg. 457/59 Note: this regulation has been placed in the regulations point in Time collection. this regulation is not repealed.
B.c. reg. 457/59 O.c. 2886/59; certificate 1003 1 Railway act Part vi: visual acuity, colour perception and hearing of railway Employees regulations Visual acuity Qualification as an examiner 1 Each person selected to make examinations must first pass the Examination under an oculist or optometrist designated by the Company, such oculist or optometrist then to instruct candidate on The use of the instruments requisite for such examination and Certify to candidate's qualifications as an examiner.
Equipment for examinations 2 Each examiner shall be provided with (a) a set of snellens test types, with at least 3 cards of Each size of letters shown in different combinations (a single Line on each card) for testing acuteness of vision, (b) an association of american railroads standard reading Card for testing near vision, (c) a holmgren or thompson colour selection test, pseudo Isochromatic chart and instructions for use of same, (d) a "williams" lantern, or one similarly constructed, and Instructions for use of same, (e) a card or shade for testing each eye separately, (f) a trial frame, with one pair of plus 2 diopter lenses, One pair of plus one diopter lenses, and one pair of plane lenses, And one opaque disk, and (g) examination forms and certificates.
Place for examinations 3 Examinations shall be conducted in a well lighted room or car in Which a distance of 20 feet can be measured from test type, or Face of lantern, to candidate. shades or curtains shall be Provided in order to darken room or car for lantern test.
Testing instrument 3.1 The keystone visual survey telebinocular model no. vs1678 Instrument may be used to test acuteness of vision of the Employees on city street cars of the british columbia electric Railway company limited.
Use of reading test card 4 The test type should be in good light, the bottom of the card About on a level with the eye. place the candidate 20 feet from The card, and ask him to read the type with both eyes open, then Cover one of his eyes with a card or shade held firmly against the Nose, taking care not to let it press against the eyeball, and Instruct him to read with the other eye such type as may be Indicated. each eye shall be tested separately.
Test standard 5 (1)  examiners are reminded that the normal eye should read The 20 foot (or 6 metre) letters at 20 feet, in which case the Visual power should be expressed by the fraction 20/20. should a Candidate be unable to read the 20 foot letters at 20 feet, but be Able to read the 30 foot letters, the result should be indicated By the fraction 20/30. if he can only read the 40 foot letters, Record should be 20/40, etc.
(2)  candidate must be able to read the test print in Paragraph 2 of the standard reading card at a distance of from 14 To 18 inches to pass the near vision test. candidates, except Applicants under classes a, b and c, may use glasses for this Test. further tests should be made by having the candidate read Written train orders.
Definitions and private testing 6 (1)  in testing vision, colour perception and hearing, only Those concerned in such test, other than the examiner and Candidate, shall be permitted to be present.
(2)  where the word "applicant" Is used in these regulations, it applies to a person who is Subject to the "entrance to service" requirements.
(3)  where the word "candidate" Is used, it applies to anyone taking examination, including those Referred to as "applicants".
Examination results and records 7 (1)  the result of each examination must be shown on a Prescribed form, a record to be preserved for reference by the Examiner, and copies as required to be forwarded to officers Concerned for inspection, record and file.
(2)  officers concerned must keep proper check, to ensure Re-examination of all employees when due, must see that all Employees who should be examined by an oculist or optometrist Under the regulations are required to take such examinations Promptly, and that glasses provided are approved by those Designated under section 13.
(3)  examiners will, upon request of candidate, issue to each Person who passes a satisfactory examination a certificate to that Effect, and will, if desired, furnish employees who fail to pass a Written statement of their rating and cause of failure.
(4)  local officers must report to the ( Each railway to fill in officer to whom report shall be made ) all cases wherein an employee appears to be disqualified, giving Full information as to result of examination.
Use of glasses for testing 8 All applicants for entrance to service under the standards Specified, except for classes e and f, must take such examination Without the use of glasses for distant vision.
Wearing of glasses on duty — distant vision 9 When the distant vision of an employee can be improved appreciably By the aid of glasses, he must wear them while on duty.
Testing with and use on duty of glasses 10 An employee who requires glasses to bring distant vision up to Standard specified must wear them while on duty and must carry an Extra pair which will bring his vision up to standard specified, And will be examined with each pair.
Forms of glasses 11 All employees, while on duty, excepting those indoors, who are Required to wear glasses for distant vision, must use the rimmed Spectacle or goggle form, and those indoors should preferably use The rimmed spectacle form. this section applies to new glasses and Replacements.
Goggles and safety spectacles 12 Automobile goggles, fitted with glass which will not injuriously Affect either acuteness of vision or colour perception, may be Used by employees in engine or freight train service for the Protection of the eyes.
The use of authorized safety spectacles or goggles which will Afford protection against flying particles, glare or both, and Which will not affect acuteness of vision or colour perception, is Recommended.
Approval of glasses 13 Glasses required to bring either near or distant vision up to Standards specified must be approved by the oculist, optometrist Or examiner designated by the company.
Abnormal eyes 14 Applicants having a squint, or who are cross-eyed or otherwise not Normal eyed, shall not be accepted. examiners who suspect a case Of double vision should use some simple test to determine its Presence.
Failure to pass acuity standard 15 An employee who fails to pass acuity standard specified will not Be disqualified from service without an examination by an oculist Designated by the company. an employee failing to pass indoor Tests for acuteness of vision shall, upon request, be examined by A committee of 2, one of whom will be appointed by the general Manager or other designated officer of the company and the other By the general chairman concerned. this committee will give due Consideration to borderline cases respecting visual acuity and Recommend the service, if available, to which the employee may be Assigned.
Employees applying for transfer 16 When promotion standard is not specified, an employee applying for Transfer from one kind of service to another, or being promoted, Must pass entrance examinations of class he desires to enter.
Exceptions:
(a) those who have been injured in service, or who have been In continuous service for at least 2 years, may be transferred to Positions of switch tenders and occupations under class f; (b) those who have been transferred from one position to Another under class e, upon passing the respective re-examination Standards.
Reversion from class d to class c 17 Employees who revert from class d to class c by direction or Consent of the company will be re-examined under class d standard.
Standard for entrance to classes a and c 18 Applicants for entrance to service in classes a and c will undergo Additional test to ascertain if far sighted to the extent of 2 Diopters. examiners will use combinations in trial frames Representing plane and convex lenses, varying the tests so that The candidate's former experience of knowledge obtained from Others may be valueless. if an applicant reads without difficulty The 20 foot letters at 20 feet through convex lenses of 2d he will Not be considered satisfactory.
Colour perception Colour perception testing 19 Examiner shall examine the colour perception of each eye Separately, using such equipment and standards of tests as are Approved. these shall be made by a lantern designed for this Purpose, by the holmgren or thompson worsteds or the pseudo Isochromatic method. the latter shall consist of 18 plates in book Form as in effect at date of this order. defective red-green Vision shall be indicated when incorrect responses are given to 5 Or more plates. candidates upon re-examination or for promotion Will not be disqualified if they pass any 2 of these tests.
Limitation on employment if colour perception defective 20 (1)  an applicant who has defective colour perception shall Not be accepted into service in any of the classes specified in The standards of visual acuity.
(2)  an employee who has defective colour perception shall Not be retained in any of the classes specified in the standards Of visual acuity except in positions to be designated by the Company where he will not be required to use or determine the Colour of signals.
No disqualification without examination by oculist 21 No employees shall be disqualified from service by reason of Defective colour sense without an examination by an oculist Designated by the company.
Hearing
Hearing test 22 In examination of hearing (which shall be with human voice) each Ear shall be tested separately and the candidate should not see The movement of the examiner's lips.
Hearing standard 23 An applicant for entrance to service must be able to hear and Repeat an ordinary conversation, or names and numbers, spoken in a Conversational tone, at a distance of 20 feet, in which case the Hearing shall be expressed by the fraction 20/20. when Conversation can be heard at only 10 feet, the hearing should be Expressed by the fraction 10/20. if indicated, a test of hearing By the use of the audiometer may be carried out.
Limitation on employment if hearing defective 24 Employees will not be retained in any of the classes specified if Hearing is less than 15/20 in one ear and 5/20 in the other, or Less than 10/20 in each ear, except in positions to be designated By the company, where the defect will not prevent the proper and Safe performance of their duties.
Re-examination of employees Re-examination of employees 25 Employees included in the standards of visual acuity and hearing Must be re-examined as follows:
(a) all classes as nearly as possible within 2 years after The last previous examination; (b) class a employees who have less than 20/40 vision in Either eye with glasses, class c employees who have less than 20/50 vision in either eye with glasses, and all employees who Have less than 20/70 vision in either eye with glasses must be Examined annually. any employee may be re-examined at such periods As may be designated by the company's chief medical officer or Chief visual examiner; (c) after any accident in which they are concerned which may Have been caused by defective vision, colour sense or hearing; (d) after any serious accident or illness, or severe Inflammation of the eye or eyelid; (e) before promotion. this does not mean that a freight Conductor should be examined previous to his appointment as Passenger conductor, or an engineman in freight service previous To appointment in passenger service, but that freight brakemen Shall be examined before being promoted to freight conductor, and Firemen being promoted to enginemen; (f) all classes to be re-examined for hearing as nearly as Possible within 2 years time after the last previous examination, Or more frequently if deemed necessary by the company's chief Medical officer or chief visual examiner.
Field testing 26 (1)  employees in classes a and b who fail to qualify after Having been examined by a company oculist as provided shall, upon Request, be given an outside or field test, using standard Operating signals as may be agreed by the committee provided for In these regulations.
(2)  in making the tests, candidates shall approach the Signals from a point where they are unable to see them, and not be Credited with being able to read signals unless they can promptly Call changes as made in position of arms and colour of lights.
(3)  the tests with and without glasses shall be made at Distances varying from 5 000 to 200 feet. these tests should be With each eye separately and also with combined vision.
(4)  the committee shall record the different distances at Which the employee being examined can promptly see the signals, And shall forward this information, together with their Recommendations as to the service to which he may be assigned, to The general superintendent.
Standards of visual acuity Class a Enginemen, motormen, firemen, motormen's helpers, road service Entrance to service: not less than 20/20 in each eye tested Separately without glasses. must not accept a plus 2d lens nor use Glasses for near vision.
Promotion: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided there Is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/40 in the other eye, with Or without glasses.
Re-examination: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided There is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/50 in the other eye, With or without glasses.
Class b [en. b.c. reg. 383/94 (eff. may 10/79*).] Enginemen, motormen, firemen, outside hostlers, motormen's Helpers,
Yard or other service designated by the company Or the chief inspecting engineer Note 1: the term "outside hostlers" Applies to hostlers handling engines between passenger stations and Roundhouses or yards or on main tracks.
Note 2: applicants for special industrial railroad service to be Designated by the chief inspecting engineer may enter service under The promotion standard.
Entrance to service: same standard as for class a.
Promotion: same standard as for class a.
Re-examination: 20/30 in one eye, regardless of vision in the other, With or without glasses.
* see b.c. reg. 411/94, b.c. gazette part ii, november 22, 1994 Issue, p. 561.
Class c [en. b.c. reg. 383/94 (eff. may 10/79*).] Brakemen in passenger, freight or yard service, switchmen, head Switchman, yard helpers, switch tenders or other service Designated by the company or the chief inspecting engineer Note: applicants for special industrial railroad service to be Designated by the chief inspecting engineer may enter service under The promotion standard.
Entrance to service: not less than 20/20 in each eye tested Separately without glasses. must not accept a plus 2d lens, nor use Glasses for near vision.
Promotion: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided there Is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/40 in the other, with or Without glasses. (from class c to class d.) Re-examination: 20/30 combined, with or without glasses, provided There is 20/30 in one eye and not less than 20/50 in the other, with Or without glasses, or 20/20 in one eye, regardless of vision in the Other, with or without glasses.
* see b.c. reg. 411/94, b.c. gazette part ii, november 22, 1994 Issue, p. 561.
Class d Conductors in passenger, freight or yard service, yardmasters, Yard foremen, train baggagemen Entrance to service: not less than 20/30 in each eye without Glasses.
Re-examination: not less than 20/40 in one eye and not less than 20/50 in the other eye, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one eye And not less than 20/70 in the other eye, with or without glasses; Or 20/20 in one eye, regardless of vision in the other, with or Without glasses.
Class e Train dispatchers whose duties require the necessary standard of Visual acuity and colour perception, station agents and telegraph And telephone operators concerned with the movement of trains, Signal foremen and maintainers, signalmen, bridge and track Foremen, drawbridge tenders, car inspectors.
Entrance to service: not less than 20/30 in one eye and not less Than 20/40 in the other eye, with or without glasses.
Re-examination: not less than 20/40 in one eye and not less than 20/70 in the other eye, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one Eye, regardless of vision in the other eye, with or without glasses.
Class f Crossing flagmen, watchmen, gatemen Entrance to service: not less than 20/40 in each eye, with or Without glasses.
Re-examination: not less than 20/50 in one eye and not less than 20/70 in the other, with or without glasses; or 20/30 in one eye, Regardless of vision in the other, with or without glasses.
Class g Employees operating snow plough, spreader or other railway Maintenance equipment moving on track, coupled ahead of Locomotive, shall be examined under regulations and standard Specified for re-examination class a.
Class
Without glasses With glasses Class a: enginemen, road service By day, sunlight Or by day if cloudy with clear atmosphere By night 200, 400 and 2 000 ft 200, 500 and 2 000 ft 200, 400 and 2 000 ft 200, 400 and 5 000 ft 200, 400 and 4 000 ft 200, 400 and 4 000 ft Class b: enginemen, yard service By day or night 200, 400 and 800 ft 200, 400 and 2 000 ft 1.
Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by Certificate, subject to approval of the lieutenant governor in Council (see r.s.b.c. 1948-285-7), since july 8, 1976, Regulation made by authority of minister only.
[provisions of the Railway act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these Regulations: section 271]