"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Railway Act
Part VII: Interurban Tramways Regulations
B.C. Reg. 458/59
Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.
B.C. Reg. 458/59
O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003
1
Railway Act
Part VII: Interurban Tramways Regulations
Interpretation
1
In these regulations:
"inspector"
means an inspecting engineer or inspector appointed under the
provisions of the Act or the
Public Service Act
;
"company"
means a company operating tramways, or interurban or street
railway.
[am. B.C. Reg. 40/91, s. 5.]
Modern and efficient
2
Every company shall provide and cause to be used on all trains and
cars modern and efficient apparatus, appliances and means:
(a)
Communication
— to provide immediate communication between the conductor while
in any car of any passenger train and the engineer or motorman;
(b)
Brakes
— to check at will the speed of the train, and bring same safely
to a standstill as expeditiously as possible, and, except under
circumstances of sudden danger or emergency, without causing undue
discomfort to passengers (if any) on the train;
(c)
Couplers
— to securely couple and connect the cars composing the train with
couplers which couple automatically by impact, and which can be
uncoupled without the necessity of men going in between the ends
of the cars.
Drive wheel brake
3
Such apparatus, appliances and means for the checking of speed or
the stopping of any train or car shall include a power drive wheel
brake and appliances for operating the train brake system upon the
locomotive, motor or car.
Power or train brakes
4
There shall also be such a number of cars in every train equipped
with power or train brakes that the engineer or motorman on the
locomotive drawing such train can control its speed or bring the
train to a stop in the quickest and best manner possible, without
requiring the brakemen to use the common handbrake for that
purpose.
Continuous instantaneous action
5
Upon all trains and cars carrying passengers such system of brakes
shall be continuous, instantaneous in action and capable of being
applied at will by the engineer, motorman or any trainman, and the
brakes must be self-applying in the event of any failure in the
continuity of their action.
Box freight cars
6
All box freight cars of the company shall, for the security of the
railway employees, be equipped with
(a) outside ladders, on 2 of the diagonally opposite ends and
sides of each car projecting below the frame of the car, with one
step or rung of each ladder below the frame, the ladders being
placed close to the ends and sides to which they are attached, and
(b) hand grips placed anglewise over the ladders of each box
car and so arranged as to assist persons in climbing on the roof
by means of the ladders; provided that, if there is at any time
any other improved side attachment which, in the opinion of the
minister, is better calculated to promote the safety of the train
hands, the minister may, by certificate under this hand and seal
of office, require all cars to be fitted with the said improved
attachment.
Freight car construction
7
All freight cars shall be constructed and equipped in accordance
with the rules of the Association of American Railroads.
Cabooses
8
All cabooses shall be equipped with a gauge connected to the air
brake train pipe. The gauge shall be placed in cupola, and also
shall be equipped with an emergency discharge valve. Each caboose
is to be equipped with an efficient handbrake on both ends of car,
and each handbrake is to work in harmony with the power brake
thereon.
Emergency valve
9
All boarding and outfit cars shall be equipped with an emergency
valve connected to air brake train pipe. The cord shall be
attached to the handle of the emergency discharge valve, and shall
run full length of car.
Equipment of electric locomotive
10
(1)  Every locomotive shall be equipped with a bell of at
least 30 pounds weight; also with a foot gong and with a whistle;
also be equipped with a step or steps and handholds on both sides
and ends.
(2)  Footrests shall be provided on the pilots of every such
locomotive sufficiently wide for a man to stand on. Every
switching or yard locomotive shall be equipped with footboards to
be not less than 10 inches wide and in height from top of rail to
top of tread not more than 12 nor less than 9 inches. The back of
such footboards shall be protected by a board not less than 4
inches high, and if cut in the centre the inner ends shall be
protected in like manner, and footboards and headlights shall be
placed on both ends of every locomotive used for switching
service, except in cases of emergency. In no case, however, shall
any locomotive be continuously used for switching purposes for
more than 24 hours without such equipment.
Height of drawbars
11
Every company shall adopt and use upon all its rolling stock such
height of drawbars as the inspector determines in accordance with
any standard from time to time adopted by competent railway
authorities.
Delay may be allowed for compliance
12
The inspector may, upon good cause shown, from time to time, grant
delay from complying with the provisions of these regulations.
Loading of lumber, etc.
13
Every company shall strictly conform to the rules and regulations
from time to time approved by the Association of American
Railroads governing the loading of lumber, logs and stone on open
cars, and the loading and carrying of structural material, plates,
rails and girders. No material of any kind shall be carried upon
the roofs of cars.
Position of freight cars
14
No passenger train shall have any freight, merchandise or lumber
car in the rear of any passenger car in which any passenger is
carried.
Position of passenger cars
15
The carrying capacity of interurban passenger cars shall be the
seating capacity only of said cars. On the Central Park Line,
British Columbia Electric Railway Company, Limited, during rush
hours the carrying capacity in addition to the seating capacity
may be increased on the basis of 50% of the seating capacity.
Baggage compartments
16
All interurban cars carrying checked baggage must be provided with
a separate compartment for this purpose.
Passengers on steps and fenders
17
Passengers are prohibited from riding on fenders or bumpers or
upon the steps of car outside the gates or doors, and it shall be
the duty of every company and every conductor in charge of a car
or train of cars to enforce this regulation.
Trains to stop at swing spans
18
When any railway passes over any navigable water or canal by means
of a draw or swing span which is subject to be opened for
navigation, every train or electric car shall be brought to a full
stop, and shall not thereafter proceed until a proper signal has
been given for that purpose.
Precautions at Railway Crossings
Stoppage of trains at rail level crossings
19
Every engine, train or electric car shall, before it crosses over
any railway track at rail level, be brought to a full stop;
provided that whenever there is in use at any such crossing an
interlocking switch and signal system or other device which, in
the opinion of the minister, renders it safe to permit engines and
trains of electric cars to pass over such crossing without being
brought to a stop, the minister may, by certificate under his hand
and seal of office, permit such engines and trains and cars to
pass over such crossing without stopping, under such regulations
as to speed and other matters as the minister deems proper.
Trains must not obstruct highway more than 5 minutes
20
Whenever any railway crosses any highway at rail level, the
company shall not, nor shall its officers, agents or employees,
wilfully permit any engine, tender or car or any portion thereof
to stand on any part of such highway for a longer period than 5
minutes at one time, or, in shunting, to obstruct public traffic
for a longer period than 5 minutes at one time, or, in the opinion
of the minister, unnecessarily interfere therewith.
Qualifications and Requirements of Employees
Employee examinations
21
No employee shall engage in the operation of interurban tramways
or handle train orders unless such employee shall have first
passed a satisfactory examination on the regulations and undergone
a satisfactory eye and ear test by a competent examiner, and it
shall be the duty of every company to enforce the observance of
this regulation.
Examination of conductor, motorman and engineer
22
Every locomotive engineer, motorman and conductor must pass
satisfactory examination in regard to the proper care of the
equipment, the handling of air brakes, train rules and
regulations, and be at least 21 years of age.
Examination of dispatchers
23
Train dispatchers required to handle train orders shall be at
least 21 years of age, be able to write a legible hand, and be
thoroughly familiar with and required to pass an examination upon
train rules before a competent examiner.
Passengers in front vestibules
24
Motormen must not allow passengers nor unauthorized persons to
ride in front vestibule of cars.
Possession of copy of rules, etc., by motormen et al
25
Motormen, engineers, conductors and trainmen must have a copy of
the company's rules and also a copy of the current time table in
their possession while on duty.
Inspection of Cars and Trains
Inspection of cars before going into service
26
All cars and trains must be inspected daily before being allowed
to go into service.
Inspection of freight trains
27
All freight trains must be inspected in accordance with
Association of American Railroads' Rules before leaving terminals.
Also a terminal test of the air brakes shall be made, and where
cars are found defective they shall be set out and repairs made
before they are allowed to proceed. When for any reason the train
has parted between air cars or air hose has been uncoupled the
following test is to be made: After all couplings have again been
united brakes must be applied and released by the motorman's or
engineer's brake valve, and trainman must see that the brakes on
the car immediately behind the point of separation and on the last
2 cars are operating properly.
Designation of ends of cars
28
The letters "A" and "B" shall be stencilled in the vestibule of
cars. The end towards which the cylinder push rod travels shall be
known as "B" end and the opposite end as "A" end. When motormen
and others make a report of defects, the letters "A" and "B" shall
be used to show to which end repairs are necessary.
Cleaning brake cylinders, etc.
29
All air brake equipment on passenger cars shall be cleaned and
tested every 6 months. All air brake equipment on freight
equipment shall be cleaned and tested once a year. Brake cylinders
shall be stencilled where the work was done, also the month and
year. All brake valves and air gauges shall be tested once a month
and a small sticker giving date and year shall be stuck on gauge
glass.
Penalties
Penalties
30
Every company guilty of an infraction of any of these regulations,
or of failure to discharge any duty imposed upon it by any of
these regulations shall be liable, pursuant to Part 45, sections
274 to 281, of the
Railway Act
.
1.
Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.
[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 268 and 271]
