"point in time" regulation content Local services act Community planning area no. 28 dease lake mobile home park regulation, 1991 B.c. reg. 80/91 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 311/2008, effective december 1, 2008.
B.c. reg. 80/91 M52/91
Deposited march 21, 1991 Local services act Community planning area no. 28 Dease lake mobile home park regulation, 1991 Division 1 - application Purpose
1 The purpose of this regulation is to control the establishment, Extension, design and servicing of mobile home parks in community Planning area no. 28 (dease lake), under section 694 of the Municipal act .
Application
2 Under the provisions of the Local services act , of section 694 (1) (j) of the Municipal act And section 28 (9) of the dease lake land use regulation, 1991, This regulation applies to community planning area no. 28 (dease Lake).
Division 2 - interpretation Interpretation
3 In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
"ancillary building" Means a building for the common use of the tenants of a mobile Home park and includes recreation buildings, laundry and other Service facilities; "approval" Means approval in writing; "buffer area" Means a setback of not less than 15 metres between the boundary of A mobile home park and a mobile home space; "medical health officer" Means the medical health officer appointed under the Health act For the territorial jurisdiction of the area in which a mobile Home park is located; "minister" Means the minister of municipal affairs; "mobile home" Means a dwelling unit that (a) is equipped with a water closet and a bathtub or shower, Waste from which may be disposed of directly into a sewer, (b) is manufactured as a unit or units intended to be Occupied, in a place other than its place of manufacture, on a Year round and long term basis, (c) may be designed with detachable towing gear, and (d) may be quickly readied for occupancy on the site by Placing it on a foundation, connecting utilities and undertaking Incidental assembly; "mobile home pad" Means that portion of a mobile home space paved to support Footings or a foundation for a mobile home, and includes service Connections;
"mobile home park" Means 3 or more mobile homes on a parcel of land but does not Include
(a) a parcel of land on which every occupied mobile home is More than 30 metres from (i)  a parcel boundary, and (ii)  another mobile home on the same parcel, or (b) the storage of unoccupied mobile homes on the parcel; "mobile home space" Means an area of land for the installation of one mobile home with Permissible additions; "owner" Means an owner, as defined in the Municipal act , who operates a mobile home park; "potable water" Means water which is certified for drinking purposes by the Ministry of health; "professional person" Means an applied science technologist (a.sc.t.), a certified Technician (c.tech.), a professional engineer (p.eng.) or an Architect, each of which is registered or licensed to practice in British columbia and has competence in the appropriate discipline; "roadway" Means an allowance within a mobile home park, part or all of which Is made suitable for normal vehicular use so that vehicles can Gain access to abutting mobile home spaces.
Division 3 - administration Permit required 4 A mobile home park permit issued under this regulation is required Before a mobile home may be installed in a new, extended or Altered mobile home park.
Professional to design 5 Every new, extended or altered mobile home park shall (a) be designed by a professional person in accordance with This regulation, and (b) be constructed under the supervision of a professional Person.
Application for permit 6 An application for a mobile home park permit shall be made in Writing by the owner to the municipal development services branch 1 , ministry of municipal affairs, recreation and culture, 800 Johnson street, victoria, b.c. v8v 1x4, and shall be accompanied By the following:
(a) 2 signed and sealed copies of all as-constructed plans And specifications of the new mobile home park or the extension or Alteration;
(b) 2 copies of each authorization applicable to the mobile Home park for (i)  access to a highway under the Transportation act , (ii)  sewage disposal under the Health act , and (iii)  sewage discharge under the Waste management act ; (c) 2 copies of the approval of the water system required by Section 25 (3) of this regulation; (d) 2 copies of a statement signed and sealed by each Professional person who designed or supervised the construction of The mobile home park stating that the design and construction is In accordance with this regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 555/2004, s. 1.] As-constructed drawing content 7 The as-constructed drawings of the mobile home park required by Section 6 (a) shall show, as a minimum, the following information:
(a) the area dimensions, the legal description of the parcel Of land, and the name of the zone under the dease lake land use Regulation, 1991, in which the mobile home park is located; (b) the dimension and location of the buffer area; (c) the number, location, dimensions and designation of all Mobile home spaces and the location and dimensions of all roadways And recreation areas; (d) the dimensions and location of all ancillary buildings, Other structures and the owner's residence, if any; (e) the internal layouts of all ancillary buildings and other Structures;
(f) the location and details of the source of water, Treatment plants, water distribution lines and outlets; (g) the location and details of all connections to the sewer, Sewer lines, septic tank or tanks, and subsurface disposal field Or other private sewage treatment plants and disposal methods; (h) the location and details of all on-site garbage and Refuse disposal areas; (i) a north arrow and notation of the scales used; (j) all water courses or water frontage within or adjacent to The land concerned; (k) all steep banks or slopes within or adjacent to the Mobile home park; (l) the relationship of the mobile home park to adjacent Roads and parcel boundaries.
Prohibitions
8 No person shall (a) locate, establish, construct, alter, extend, expand, Subdivide or operate a mobile home park, or (b) cause or allow a mobile home to be parked or to remain in A mobile home park, In contravention of this regulation.
Severability
9 If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or clause of This regulation is for any reason held to be invalid by the Decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision Does not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Regulation.
Division 4 - design and layout standards Location of mobile home 10 (1)  all parts of every parcel of land included in a mobile Home park shall (a) be contiguous, (b) be well drained and free at all times of stagnant pools Of water, and (c) be graded for rapid drainage.
(2)  every mobile home in a mobile home park shall be in a Mobile home space.
(3)  every mobile home in a mobile home park shall be Supported by double blocking consisting of a system of support Blocking in which blocks of alternate courses are placed at 90º to One another.
Mobile home space 11 (1)  the minimum area for a mobile home space in a mobile Home park shall be 465 square metres.
(2)  the minimum frontage of each mobile home space abutting An internal roadway shall be 12 metres, except for a mobile home Space abutting a cul-de-sac or a panhandle mobile home space in Which case the minimum frontage shall be 6 metres.
(3)  each corner of a mobile home space shall be clearly Marked by a post not less than 50 cm high.
(4)  every mobile home space shall (a) be drained properly, (b) be clearly numbered, and (c) have a mobile home pad that is surfaced with asphalt or Concrete pavement.
(5)  every mobile home pad shall have a maximum 6º Longitudinal or 15º cross or crown gradient, or a combination of Both longitudinal and cross or crown gradient.
Site coverage 12 A mobile home and any addition to it, exclusive of a carport, Shall not cover more than 35% of the mobile home space upon which It is installed in a mobile home park.
Buffer areas 13 (1)  a buffer area shall include sufficient trees and shrubs To create a visual barrier.
(2)  the following shall not be located within the buffer Area:
(a) recreation or service areas, except for waterfront Recreation or waterfront amenity areas; (b) buildings or structures erected or placed, except (i)  a sign which may only be placed within 7.6 metres of a Public highway, (ii)  a fence, and (iii)  a wall; (c) garbage disposal areas; (d) any part of a private sewage disposal system; (e) vehicle parking areas.
(3)  the only roads permitted in the buffer area are those That cross it as close to right angles as practicable and that are Directly connected to the roadway system contained within the Remainder of the mobile home park.
(4)  no road shall traverse the buffer area so as to give Direct access from a public highway to any mobile home space.
(5)  notwithstanding the definition of buffer area in section 3, if a mobile home park is separated from neighbouring property By a body of water the mobile home park boundary is deemed to be The centre line of that body of water for the purpose of Establishing the buffer area.
Recreation area 14 (1)  not less than 5% of the gross site area of a mobile home Park shall be provided for recreational use by the residents of The mobile home park and shall be in a convenient and accessible Location.
(2)  for the purpose of calculating recreational space Requirements under subsection (1), any indoor recreational space That is provided may be counted as double its actual area.
(3)  the recreation area does not include buffer areas, Parking areas, any part of an ancillary building not designated as Recreational space, mobile home spaces, roadways or storage areas.
(4)  if more than 1 000 square metres is required for Recreation purposes, the area may be divided into 2 or more Recreation areas.
(5)  recreation areas, except indoor recreation facilities, Shall be no more than 50% asphalt surface and the remainder shall Be properly landscaped.
Access
15 (1)  no person shall establish or extend a mobile home park Unless access from a public highway to the mobile home park is Approved by the ministry of transportation and highways.
(2)  a second access from a public highway, separated by at Least 60 metres from the first access, shall be provided to each Mobile home park containing 50 or more mobile home spaces.
Roadways
16 (1)  every mobile home space, storage area, service building, And any other facility that requires access, shall have access From the internal roadway system of a mobile home park.
(2)  the minimum roadway width requirements in the mobile Home park are as follows:
(a) roadways for access to and from the mobile home park may Not be less than 15 metres wide with a minimum surfaced width of 6.7 metres; (b) roadways (i)  with parking on both sides shall have a minimum surfaced Width of 11 metres and a roadway of 15 metres, (ii)  with parking on one side shall have a minimum surfaced Width of 8.5 metres and a roadway of 12 metres, and (iii)  with no parking shall have a minimum surfaced width of 6 metres and roadway of 12 metres.
(3)  every road in the mobile home park shall be paved and Well drained.
(4)  dead end roadways that provide access to mobile homes May only be used (a) when more than one access roadway to an area of mobile Homes is impracticable because of difficult terrain or a natural Feature, or (b) to allow for the future extension of the mobile home Park.
(5)  dead end roadways shall have a turning circle at the Furthest end with a minimum radius of 12 metres.
(6)  roads shall be adapted to the topography and shall have A maximum gradient of 10%.
Off roadway parking 17 (1)  two motor vehicle parking spaces shall be provided on or Near each mobile home space in a mobile home park.
(2)  in addition to the requirement of subsection (1), for Every 2 mobile homes spaces, one additional parking space shall be Provided.
(3)  every parking space shall be easily accessible, level, Graded for proper drainage, free of mud and paved or dust free.
Street lighting 18 Street lighting shall be installed in a mobile home park to Provide to the travelled portion of the roadway an average Horizontal illumination of 3 lux with a uniformity ratio of 6:1 (average to minimum illumination with a maintenance factor of 0.9).
Signs
19 Identification signs may be located at the principal entrance to a Mobile home park and shall not exceed (a) a height of 1.8 metres above ground, and (b) a total area of 3 square metres for all signs erected.
Yards and heights 20 (1)  no mobile home or addition to a mobile home in a mobile Home park may be located within 9 metres of another mobile home or Addition thereto.
(2)  no part of a mobile home or addition to a mobile home Shall be located (a) within 1.8 metres of internal roadway or common parking Area, and (b) within 1.5 metres of rear and side mobile home space Lines.
(3)  no building or structure in a mobile home park shall Exceed 7.6 metres in height.
Mobile home space 21 Only one mobile home shall be located on a mobile home space in a Mobile home park.
Permissible additions 22 (1)  no addition to a mobile home is permitted in a mobile Home park except as follows:
(a) a carport; (b) a roof to shelter a mobile home against sun, rain or Snow;
(c) vestibules of a maximum size of 3.7 square metres; (d) rooms (cabanas) added to a mobile home where (i)  the additional room has an exit or an access to exit Other than through the mobile home, and (ii)  in all cases the means of egress from the mobile home Or additional room is not restricted or diminished by any part of The addition.
(2)  additions to a mobile home, exclusive of a carport, Shall not be larger in area than 20% of the floor area of the Mobile home excluding vestibules, attics and crawl or duct spaces.
Tenant storage 23 One separate storage structure is permitted on each mobile home Space in a mobile home park if the structure (a) is no more than 25 cubic metres in volume, (b) does not exceed 2.4 metres in height, and (c) is not less than 9 metres from a mobile home or an Adjoining mobile home space.
Ancillary buildings 24 Ancillary buildings in a mobile home park shall (a) be located at least 7.5 metres from any mobile home Space,
(b) be of permanent construction and adequately lighted, (c) have walls, floors and partitions that can be easily Cleaned,
(d) have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings Effectively screened, and (e) if toilet facilities are required, have separate Facilities for males and females.
Water supply 25 (1)  the owner of a mobile home park shall provide a water Supply system and furnish potable water to each mobile home space.
(2)  the water supplied by the system shall be constant and Potable, with a minimum working pressure of 200 kpa at all outlets At maximum operating conditions and a maximum pressure of 300 kpa.
(3)  the water supply system required by subsection (1) shall Be designed and installed in accordance with this regulation and The british columbia plumbing code, 1985, and shall be approved by The ministry of health under the Health act .
(4)  potable water shall be distributed in the mobile home Park to (a) each mobile home space, (b) each ancillary building, if required, (c) all hose bibs, and (d) all stand pipes or hydrants.
(5)  water shall not be distributed to any terminal in the Mobile home park from which water would not be intercepted by an Approved sewage fixture, except hose bibs, stand pipes and Hydrants.
(6)  for design purposes each mobile home in a mobile home Park shall be considered as having a hydraulic load of 15 fixture Units, and each branch line serving a mobile home shall have a Minimum diameter of 3/4 inch.
(7)  a backflow preventer shall be installed on each water Distribution branch line serving a mobile home space in a mobile Home park.
(8)  all terminals on branch lines serving mobile home spaces And all stand pipes and hydrants in a mobile home park shall be Protected from mechanical damage.
(9)  all parts of the water supply system in a mobile home Park shall have adequate cover to protect the water in it from Freezing.
(10)  except for branch lines to mobile home spaces and Service buildings, all parts of the water supply system Distributing water in a mobile home park shall be in a roadway.
Sewer system 26 (1)  the owner of a mobile home park shall dispose of all Sewage and waste water that is generated within the mobile home Park by providing a sewer system that is connected to all plumbing Fixtures and sewer laterals in the mobile home park.
(2)  the sewer system required by subsection (1) shall be Designed and installed in accordance with this regulation and the British columbia plumbing code, 1985 2 .
(3)  every mobile home space in the mobile home park shall Have a lateral sewer terminus which is protected from mechanical Damage and storm water infiltration.
(4)  the terminus shall be gas tight with threaded and "quick Change" adapter couplers not requiring any special tools or Knowledge to make the connection, designed and installed to Receive sewage discharge from a mobile home drain that slopes Constantly at a minimum of 1:50 from the mobile home.
(5)  every sewer terminus in the sewer system shall have a Trap and a vent which shall extend 3 metres above the surrounding Grade.
(6)  outdoor vents shall be securely fastened to a post not Less than 89 mm x 89 mm which shall be completely wood Preservative treated and securely embedded in the ground or have Equivalent support.
(7)  cleanouts shall be installed throughout the sewer system In accordance with the requirements of the british columbia Plumbing code, 1985.
(8)  for the purpose of designing the sewer system, each Sewer terminus shall be considered as having a hydraulic load of 15 fixture units.
(9)  all parts of the sewer system in a mobile home park Shall have adequate cover to protect the sewage and waste water in It from freezing.
(10)  except for lateral sewers to terminals in mobile home Spaces and service buildings, all parts of the sewer system Collecting effluent in a mobile home park shall be in a roadway.
Sewage disposal 27 (1)  the owner of a mobile home park shall dispose of all Sewage and waste water from a sewer system by causing the sewer System to discharge into a public or into a private sewage Disposal system.
(2)  the design and installation of a private sewage disposal System shall conform to requirements under the Health act Or the Waste management act , as the case may be.
Garbage facilities 28 (1)  if the owner of a mobile home park establishes one or More depots within the mobile home park for the collection of Garbage and refuse, the owner shall provide one fly tight metal Container for each mobile home space.
(2)  any container provided under subsection (1) shall be Supported in a manner that makes it very difficult for an animal To open and remove garbage or refuse.
1.
Now called planning advice and approvals branch, ministry of Municipal affairs, po box 9490 stn prov. gov't, victoria, b.c.
V8w 9n7 2.
See now British columbia building code regulation, b.c. reg. 295/98 [provisions of the Local services act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 276, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 4]