"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Emergency and Health Services Act
Emergency Medical Assistants Regulation
B.C. Reg. 562/2004
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 191/2010, effective July 1,
2010.
B.C. Reg. 562/2004
O.C. 1211/2004
Deposited December 9, 2004
effective January 1, 2005
Emergency and Health Services Act
Emergency Medical Assistants Regulation
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Emergency and Health Services Act
;
"ACP"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Advanced Care
Paramedic;
"category"
means a category specified in section 8 (1);
"CCP"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Critical Care
Paramedic;
"EMA"
means emergency medical assistant;
"EMR"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Emergency Medical
Responder;
"EMA FR"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Emergency Medical
Assistant First Responder;
"ITT"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Infant Transport
Team;
"licence"
means a licence issued or renewed in accordance with the Act, this
regulation and the rules;
"PCP"
means the category specified in section 8 (1) as Primary Care
Paramedic;
"register"
means the register of EMAs established and maintained under
section 6 of the Act;
"rules"
means the rules made under section 14 (5) of the Act.
Register
2
(1)  The register must set out for each EMA the following:
(a) the EMA's name, address, licence number and place of
employment;
(b) the category in which the EMA is licensed, and any
endorsements on the licence under section 10;
(c) any terms, limits or conditions set or imposed by the
board for the licence;
(d) a notation of each renewal, suspension, or revocation of
the licence;
(e) any other information the board considers necessary or
appropriate.
(2)  The register must include for each EMA a notation of
anything done under section 7 (3) of the Act concerning the EMA
before the coming into force of subsection (1) (d).
(3)  An EMA must notify the board, in writing, of any change
of name, address or place of employment within 30 days after the
change, and the change must be entered in the register.
(4)  If a licence expires or is suspended or revoked, the EMA
must, within 48 hours after expiration or after being notified of
the suspension or revocation, return the licence to the board.
Inspection of register
3
(1)  The register and rules must be open to inspection at the
office of the board by any person free of charge during regular
business hours.
(2)  Despite subsection (1), the board may refuse access by a
person to the register if it is reasonable to believe that
(a) the access could threaten the safety of an EMA, or
(b) the person seeking access is doing so for commercial
purposes.
(3)  If access is refused under subsection (2), information
appropriate in the circumstances concerning matters recorded in
the registry may be disclosed, in lieu of access, to the person
refused access.
Application for licence
4
A person not licensed as an EMA in a category may be licensed in
the category if the person
(a) applies, in the form and manner approved by the board,
for a licence in the category,
(b) provides evidence, satisfactory to the board, that the
person
(i)  has successfully completed the training program or
programs recognized by the board for the category,
(ii)  has passed the examinations approved by the board for
the category, and
(iii)  is of good character and fit to work as an EMA.
Applicants authorized to practise in a jurisdiction outside of
British Columbia
5
(1)  In this section:
"another jurisdiction"
or
"other jurisdiction"
means a jurisdiction other than British Columbia;
"in good standing in that other jurisdiction"
means that the applicant
(a) is authorized to practise in that other jurisdiction
without any conditions, sanctions or restrictions imposed on that
practice as a result of determinations made from a review of any
patient-care complaint,
(b) is not the subject of an investigation, a pending
hearing, a hearing underway or a pending determination or decision
relating to any patient-care complaint, and
(c) has not, for reasons of incompetence, incapacity or
misconduct,
(i)  resigned or otherwise voluntarily given up the
applicant's authorization to practise,
(ii)  had terms or conditions placed on the applicant's
authorization to practise, or
(iii)  had the applicant's authorization to practise
suspended or cancelled.
(2)  A person who
(a) is not an EMA,
(b) applies to the registrar, in the form and manner approved
by the board, for a licence in a category, and
(c) provides evidence, satisfactory to the board, that the
person
(i)  has an authorization in another jurisdiction to practise
that is, in the opinion of the board, equivalent to an
authorization to practise as an EMA in the category,
(ii)  is in good standing in that other jurisdiction, and
(iii)  is of good character and fit to work as an EMA,
may be licensed as an EMA in the category.
(3)  If subsection (2) would apply to a person except for the
fact that the board does not consider the qualifications,
examinations or training required for the applicant's
authorization to practise in the other jurisdiction are equivalent
to those required in British Columbia for the category of licence
sought, the board
(a) may require the applicant, before the application is
approved and a licence is issued, to successfully complete the
examinations or training programs that the board considers
necessary or appropriate, and
(b) in choosing examinations or training programs for the
purpose of paragraph (a), must only cover matters for which the
examinations or training of the other jurisdiction are not
considered by the board to be equivalent to those required in
British Columbia for the category.
Short term licence for non-students
6
(1)  In this section,
"applicant"
means an applicant for a licence for a category
(a) under section 4 who has successfully completed the
training programs recognized by the board for the category, or
(b) under section 5.
(2)  The board may issue a licence for the category to an
applicant for a period of up to 30 days if the board is of the
opinion that the applicant, although not currently qualified, is
likely to qualify to be licensed under section 4 or 5 in that
category within the near future.
(3)  The board may extend the term of a licence issued under
subsection (2) for a period of up to 30 days on 1 or more
occasions, provided that the total period of the licence does not
exceed one year, if the board is of the opinion that the applicant
under section 4 or 5 is likely to qualify to be licensed in the
category within the near future.
(4)  If the board acts under subsection (2) or (3), it may
defer the decision to act or not act under section 4 or 5 during
the term of the licence issued under subsection (2).
(5)  Section 5 (3) (b) applies to examinations or training
programs that the board requires an applicant under section 5 to
take as a term or condition of a licence issued under subsection
(2) to the applicant.
[am. B.C. Reg. 45/2007.]
Short term licence for students
7
(1)  In this section,
"applicant"
means an applicant for a licence for a category under section 4
who has not completed the training programs for the category.
(2)  The board may issue a licence for a category to an
applicant for a period of up to a year if the board is of the
opinion that the applicant, although not currently qualified, is
likely to qualify to be licensed under section 4 or 5 in the
category within the period.
(3)  The board may extend the term of a licence issued under
subsection (2) for a period of up to 180 days on 1 or more
occasions, provided that the total period of the licence does not
exceed 2 years, if the board is of the opinion that the applicant
under section 4 or 5 is likely to qualify to be licensed in the
category within the period of the extension.
(4)  If the board acts under subsection (2) or (3), it may
defer the decision to act or not act under section 4 or 5 during
the term of the licence issued under subsection (2).
Temporary licence in extraordinary circumstances
7.1
(1)  In this section:
"another jurisdiction"
or
"other jurisdiction"
have the same meaning as in section 5;
"in good standing in that other jurisdiction"
has the same meaning as in section 5 (1), but a reference to "the
applicant" or "the applicant's" in that provision must be read as
a reference to "the person" or "the person's".
(2)  If the commission determines that it is necessary or
appropriate in the circumstances for the protection of public
health or safety, the commission may request that the board issue
a licence to a person.
(3)  If the commission makes a request under subsection (2),
and despite sections 4 and 8 (1), the board must issue a licence
for a category to the person if the board is of the opinion that
the person is able to practise as an EMA in the category without
unacceptable risk to public health or safety.
(4)  The board may, under this section, issue a licence for a
category only to a person who
(a) is an operational manager with the British Columbia
Ambulance Service and has previously
(i)  been licensed as an EMA, or
(ii)  had an authorization in another jurisdiction to
practise that is, in the opinion of the board, equivalent to an
authorization to practise as an EMA,
(b) has an authorization in another jurisdiction to practise
that is, in the opinion of the board, equivalent to an
authorization to practise as an EMA, and is in good standing in
that other jurisdiction,
(c) is a student licensed under section 7 in the category of
PCP, ACP or CCP, or
(d) is a person who provides evidence, satisfactory to the
board, that the person has successfully completed training
programs that are, in the opinion of the board, substantially
equivalent to those recognized by the board for the category.
(5)  In order to be licensed under this section, a person
must provide evidence satisfactory to the board that the person is
of good character and fit to work as an EMA.
(6)  The board may issue a licence under this section for a
period of up to 30 days and may extend the term for a further
period of up to 30 days on one or more occasions, if the
requirements under subsections (2) and (3) continue to be met, but
the total period of the licence must not exceed 60 days.
(7)  If the board issues a temporary licence to a student
under this section,
(a) the licence held by the student under section 7 is
suspended for the term of the temporary licence, and
(b) the time during which the licence under section 7 is
suspended does not count in the reckoning of
(i)  the term of the licence as described in section 7 (2),
(ii)  any period of extension of the term, as described in
section 7 (3), or
(iii)  the total period of the licence, as referred to in
section 7 (3),
as applicable.
[en. B.C. Reg. 167/2009, s. 1.]
Categories of licence
8
(1)  An EMA may be licensed in only one of the following
categories at a time:
(a) Emergency Medical Assistant First Responder;
(b) Emergency Medical Responder;
(c) Primary Care Paramedic;
(d) Advanced Care Paramedic;
(e) Critical Care Paramedic;
(f) Infant Transport Team.
(2)  An EMA in the course of practising the profession may
perform only
(a) the services specified in Schedule 1 for the category in
which the EMA is licensed, and
(b) a service in respect of which the EMA's licence is
endorsed under section 10.
[am. B.C. Reg. 207/2006, s. 1.]
Term of a licence
9
Subject to sections 6 to 7.1
(a) a licence in the category of EMR, PCP, ACP, CCP or ITT
expires 5 years after the date it was issued, and
(b) a licence in the category of EMA FR expires 3 years after
the date it was issued.
[am. B.C. Reg. 167/2009, s. 2.]
Endorsement of other skills
10
If an EMA provides evidence, satisfactory to the board, that the
EMA has passed the examinations approved by the board for the
purposes of this section, the board may endorse a licence to
permit the EMA to perform a service specified in Schedule 2 for
the category of licence in which the EMA is licensed.
Condition of licence
11
The board must include as a term and condition for each licence
that the EMA must comply with the Act, this regulation and the
Code of Ethics set out in Schedule 3.
EMA board member
12
For the purpose of section 6 of the Act, the EMA to be appointed
to the board must be selected by the bargaining agent, as defined
in section 1 of the
Labour Relations Code
, for EMAs.
Spent
13
Spent. [B.C. Reg. 562/2004, s. 13 (b).]
State of Washington emergency medical assistants
14
(1)  The board may issue a licence collectively recognizing
as emergency medical assistants all persons certified under
chapter 18.71 and 18.73 of the Revised Code of Washington of
Washington State, one of the United States of America, to provide
the emergency health services described in this section.
(2)  The emergency health services to be authorized by a
licence under subsection (1) are restricted to emergency health
services that the persons referred to in subsection (1)
(a) are authorized to provide in the State of Washington,
(b) provide under the supervision and control required by the
terms of their certification in the State of Washington, and
(c) provide in British Columbia while transporting patients
from the United States of America to medical facilities in British
Columbia or the United States of America.
(3)  The other provisions of this regulation do not apply to
persons covered by a licence under this section.
Licence fees
15
(1)  An applicant for a licence for a category listed in
Column 1 of Schedule 4 must pay the licence fee shown opposite in
Column 2, 3 or 4 of that Schedule, as applicable.
(2)  An EMA licensed in a category listed in Column 1 of
Schedule 4 whose licence is renewed must pay the licence renewal
fee shown opposite in Column 5 of that Schedule.
(3)  Despite subsections (1) and (2), a licence fee is not
payable in respect of a licence issued or extended under section
7.1.
[en. B.C. Reg. 75/2007, s. (a); am. B.C. Reg. 167/2009, s. 3.]
Schedule 1
[am. B.C. Reg. 207/2006, ss. 2 and 3.]
Services — Licence Category
EMA FR
• scene assessment;
• assessment of level of consciousness, skin colour and temperature,
pulse, and respiration;
• rapid body survey to identify and attend to any life threatening
injuries followed by a secondary assessment consisting of a physical
examination, medical and incident history, and vital signs;
• cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
• basic wound and fracture management;
• maintenance of airways and ventilation.
EMR
• all services specified in this Schedule and Schedule 2 for the
category of EMA FR;
• occupational first aid;
• lifting/loading, extrication/evacuation and transportation;
• cervical collar application and spinal immobilization on a long
spine board;
• blood pressure assessment by auscultation and palpation;
• emergency fracture management/immobilization;
• oropharyngeal airway suctioning;
• oxygen administration and equipment;
• administration of semi-automatic or automatic external
defibrillator;
• soft tissue injury treatment.
PCP
• all services specified in this Schedule and Schedule 2 for the
category of EMR;
• administration of the following intravenous, oral, sublingual,
subcutaneous, inhaled, intra-muscular or nebulized medications:
- narcotic antagonist
- bronchodilator
- anti-histaminic
- sympathomimetic agent
ACP
• all services specified in this Schedule and Schedule 2 for the
category of PCP;
• electrocardiogram rhythm interpretation, cardioversion, external
pacing and manual defibrillation;
• initiation and maintenance of intraosseous needle cannulation;
• nasopharyngeal airway;
• maintenance of intravenous routes using intermittent infusion
devices, including IV pumps;
• initiation of external jugular vein cannulation;
• cricothyrotomy and needle thoracentesis;
• gastric intubation and suction;
• maintenance of intravenous lines with medications;
• insertion and maintenance of advanced airway devices which do not
require laryngoscopy;
• use and interpretation of end tidal CO
2
monitoring devices;
• administration of colloid and non-crystalloid volume expanders;
• administration of the following intravenous, oral, nebulized,
endotracheal, intraosseous, intramuscular and rectal medications:
- anti-arrhythmic
- electrolyte — calcium therapy
- diuretic
- anti-coagulant
- narcotic
- anti-pyretic
- anti-cholinergic
- sedative
- anti-emetic — anti-nauseant
- histamine antagonist
- anti-convulsant
- alkalizer.
CCP
• all services specified in this Schedule and Schedule 2 for the
category of ACP.
ITT
• all services specified in this Schedule and Schedule 2 for the
category of PCP;
• pediatric and neonatal electrocardiogram interpretation and manual
defibrillation;
• intraosseous therapy;
• administration of the following intravenous, oral, nebulized,
endotracheal, intraosseous, intramuscular and rectal medications:
- anti-arrhythmic
- bronchodilator
- anti-pyretic
- anti-cholinergic
- anti-hypoglycemic agent
- sedative — anti-epileptic
- anti-emetic — anti-nauseant
- histamine antagonist
- anti-convulsant
- alkalizer;
• maintenance of intravenous routes using intermittent infusion
devices;
• mechanical ventilation;
• maintenance and monitoring of arterial and central venous
catheters;
• gastric intubation and suction;
• management of chest tubes and chest drainage systems;
• intravenous blood product administration;
• use of incubators for thermoregulation;
• administration of drug therapy on the direct order of a medical
practitioner who is designated by an employer as a Transport
Advisor.
Schedule 2
[am. B.C. Reg. 207/2006, ss. 4 and 5.]
Services — Licence Endorsement
EMA FR
• use of airway management techniques including oropharyngeal
airways, oral suction devices and oxygen-supplemented mask devices
to assist ventilation;
• use of an automatic or semi-automatic external defibrillator;
• cervical collar application and spinal immobilization on a long
spine board;
• administration of oxygen;
• administration of oral glucose;
• emergency childbirth;
• ventilation using pocket mask and bag/valve/mask devices.
EMR
• maintenance of intravenous lines without medications or blood
products while transporting persons between health facilities;
• use and interpretation of a pulse oximeter;
• administration of the following oral, sublingual or inhaled
medications:
- anti-anginal;
- anti-hypoglycemic agent;
- analgesia;
- platelet inhibitors;
• use and interpretation of a glucometer;
• chest auscultation.
PCP
• initiation of peripheral intravenous lines;
• administration of the following intravenous fluids and
medications:
- anti-hypoglycemic agent,
- isotonic crystalloid solutions, or
- vitamin B1;
• endotracheal intubation.
ACP
• mechanical ventilation;
• administration of drug therapy on the direct order of a medical
practitioner who is designated by an employer as a Transport
Advisor;
• urinary catheterization;
• arterial line management and central venous pressure monitoring;
• infusion of blood products;
• point of care testing using capillary, venous or arterial
sampling;
• collect arterial and venous blood samples;
• interpret laboratory and radiologic data;
• perform and interpret 12 lead electrocardiograph;
• chest tube management;
• central line management;
• management of parenteral feeding lines and equipment;
• provide trans-venous pacing.
Schedule 3
Code of Ethics
The purpose of this code of ethics is to provide general principles
of ethical conduct to guide emergency medical assistants in meeting
their duties to the public and to the profession.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL ASSISTANTS SHALL
(1) Consider, above all, the well-being of the patient in the
exercise of their duties and responsibilities.
(2) Develop and maintain working relationships with other health
professions and associations to ensure that patients receive the
best possible emergency health care.
(3) Protect and maintain the patient's safety and dignity,
regardless of the patient's race, colour, ancestry, place of origin,
religion, marital status, family status, physical or mental
disability, sex or sexual orientation.
(4) Preserve the confidence of patient information consistent with
the duty to act at all times for the patient's well-being.
(5) Not engage in any illegal or unethical conduct nor act in a
manner that conflicts with the best interests of the profession.
(6) Report any incompetent, illegal, or unethical conduct by
colleagues or other health care personnel to the appropriate
authorities.
(7) Carry out professional responsibilities with integrity and in
accordance with the highest standards of professional competence.
(8) Strive to improve the professional competence of colleagues
serving under their direction.
(9) Assume responsibility for personal and professional development,
and maintain professional standards through training and peer
mentoring.
(10) Strive to encourage and merit the respect and trust of the
public for members of the profession.
(11) Refrain from impugning the professional reputation of a
colleague or any other health care provider.
(12) Promote and encourage compliance with the spirit of these
standards within the profession.
Schedule 4
[en. B.C. Reg. 75/2007, s. (b).]
Licence Fees
Column 1
Licence
Category
Column 2
Licence Fee
(if only written
examination is
required)
Column 3
Licence Fee
(if only practical
examination is
required)
Column 4
Licence Fee
(if both written and
practical examinations
are required)
Column 5
Licence
Renewal
Fee
EMR
$ 50.00
$ 400.00
$450.00
$ 50.00
PCP
$ 50.00
$ 400.00
$ 450.00
$ 50.00
ACP
$ 50.00
$ 500.00
$ 550.00
$ 50.00
CCP
no fee
no fee
no fee
$ 50.00
ITT
no fee
no fee
no fee
$ 50.00
Note:
this regulation repeals B.C. Reg. 260/91.
[Provisions of the
Emergency and Health Services Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 182, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 14]
