"point in time" regulation content Health professions act Dental technicians regulation B.c. reg. 509/95 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 270/2008, effective october 17, 2008.
B.c. reg. 509/95 O.c. 1468/95 Deposited december 7, 1995 Health professions act Dental technicians regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"dentist" Means a person authorized under the Dentists act To practise dentistry; "denturist" Means a registrant of the college of denturists of british Columbia;
"prescription" Means a document, signed and dated by a dentist or medical Practitioner, that directs a dental technician to perform a Service that a dental technician is permitted, by the dental Technician's certificate of registration, to perform for the Purpose specified in the document.
Designation
2 (1)  dental technology is designated as a health profession.
(2)  the college of dental technicians of british columbia is The name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Health professions act For the health profession of dental technology.
Reserved titles 3 No person who is not a dental technician may use the title "dental Technician", "certified dental technician" or "registered dental Technician".
[en. b.c. reg. 162/98.] Scope of practice 4 A registrant may, if the services can be performed without Intraoral procedures or the taking of impressions, (a) make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply, Alter and repair a denture, bridge or prosthetic appliance or Thing to be used in, on, in connection with, or in the treatment Of a human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue for a Person in accordance with a prescription to perform any of those Services for that person, and (b) make structural repairs to a removable dental prosthesis Or replace teeth in a denture without a prescription.
Reserved acts 5 (1)  subject to section 14 of the Health professions act , no person other than a registrant may, for another, (a) make, produce, reproduce, construct, furnish, supply, Alter or repair a prosthetic denture, bridge, appliance or thing To be used in, on, in connection with or in the treatment of a Human tooth, jaw or associated structure or tissue, or (b) make, repair, reline, replace or furnish upper or lower Full dentures.
(2)  subsection (1) does not apply to a person who performs The services of a dental technician where (a) the services are performed under the direct supervision And in the office of a dentist, and (b) the services are performed exclusively for the practice Of the dentist.
(3)  subsection (1) does not apply to a person who (a) provides any services referred to in subsection (1) in The course of his or her employment by the government of canada or By any agent of the government of canada, or (b) is engaged solely in the business of manufacturing, Fabricating or supplying in commercial quantities articles to be Used by registrants, denturists, dentists or medical Practitioners.
[provisions of the Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 12]