“Point in Time” Act and Supplement Content
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS ACT
(formerly titled Ministry of Transportation and Highways Act)
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 311
NOTE:
Links below go to act  and supplement content as it was
prior to the changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers
changes made from September 6, 2000 to "current to" date of
the act.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
title
December 31, 2004
1 to 33
December 31, 2004
6
March 29, 2004
22
July 25, 2003
23
September 26, 2001
26
April 11, 2002
27
October 31, 2002
October 31, 2002
27.1
October 31, 2002
34
October 11, 2002
35 to 51
December 31, 2004
35
April 1, 2003
December 31, 2004
37
March 29, 2004
38
July 25, 2003
39
March 29, 2004
41
October 3, 2003
March 29, 2004
Part 4, ss. 48 to 51
October 3, 2003
Supplement
December 31, 2004
Title BEFORE re-enacted by 2004-44-132, effective December 31, 2004
(BC Reg 547/2004).
Ministry of Transportation and Highways Act
Sections 1 to 33 BEFORE repealed by 2004-44-130, effective December
31, 2004 (BC Reg 547/2004).
Continuation of ministry
1
(1)  The ministry of Transportation and Highways is
continued.
(2)  The minister presides over and is responsible to the
Lieutenant Governor in Council for the direction of the ministry.
(3)  The minister may establish branches or divisions of the
ministry as the minister considers advisable.
Officers and staff
2
One or more deputy ministers, a chief architect and other officers
and employees required to carry out the ministry's business may be
appointed under the
Public Service Act
.
Part 1 — Transportation
Definition
3
In this Part
"transport"
means a method, manner or means of transportation and, without
limiting this definition, includes aircraft, ships, boats and
vessels, elevated, surface or subsurface railways or tramways,
elevated cable cars, motor vehicles and trailers, all terrain
vehicles, hovercraft, and the hoists, cables, rails, rolling
stock, pipelines and conduits used in connection with transport.
Duties and powers of minister
4
The duties, powers and functions of the minister extend to and
include all matters relating to transportation that are assigned
to the minister by any Act or by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council, and that are not assigned to another minister, ministry,
branch or agency of the government.
Purpose and functions of ministry
5
The ministry has the following purpose and functions:
(a) to prepare and develop comprehensive policies on
transportation in British Columbia, to make reports and
recommendations to the minister on their implementation and to
implement them as the minister directs;
(b) to initiate and carry out any investigation, research,
study or inventory on transport facilities and future requirements
for British Columbia and to collect and circulate the information
acquired;
(c) to establish transport services for ministries of the
government and, for that purpose, to obtain from them information
about programs, projects and requirements in the field of
transportation;
(d) to administer Acts and regulations assigned to the
minister under section 4 and to discharge other duties assigned to
the minister by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Ancillary powers of minister
6
To carry out the minister's duties, powers and functions under
this Part, the minister may do one or more of the following:
(a) acquire and dispose of property;
(b) with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
acquire any business or commercial or industrial enterprise
relating to transport;
(c) carry on or operate a business or enterprise acquired
under paragraph (b);
(d) grant franchises and licences and enter into charter
agreements to operate any ferry service and specify all rights and
terms of the franchises and licences and the terms of the charter
agreements;
(e) make grants
(i)  to a corporation defined in the
Business Corporations Act
, to a municipality or to a regional district that is authorized
to carry on a business, enterprise or activity, or to provide a
service, relating to transport, or
(ii)  to the Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority under
the
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
;
(f) expend capital sums required for these purposes out of
money appropriated by the Legislature for the purpose.
Investigations and inquiries
7
For the purpose of section 5 (b), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may, by order, authorize the minister to do one or more of
the following:
(a) employ persons necessary to initiate and carry out
investigations and inquiries, subject to terms the Lieutenant
Governor in Council specifies;
(b) confer on the person the powers, privileges and authority
conferred on a commissioner under sections 12, 15 and 16 of the
Inquiry Act
;
(c) order that an employee or agency of the government or a
public officer answer questions and supply information.
Agreements with other jurisdictions
8
With the consent of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
minister may enter arrangements or agreements with Canada, with
other provinces or states, or with their departments or agencies,
that the minister considers necessary or advisable to carry out
the minister's powers and duties under this Part, to exchange
information or statistics or for any other joint action under this
Part.
Power to make regulations for this Part
9
For the purposes of this Part the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
Reports for this Part
10
The minister must submit to the Lieutenant Governor in Council an
annual report of the work performed by the ministry under this
Part, which must be laid before the Legislative Assembly during
the session next following the end of the year for which the
report is made.
Part 2 — Highways and Public Works
Definition
11
In this Part,
"government buildings, highways and public works"
includes
(a) government buildings and property acquired, constructed,
repaired, maintained, altered or improved at government expense;
(b) highways as defined in the
Highway Act
;
(c) works of public utility;
(d) ferries and ferry landings that are part of the highway
system, except those that are
(i)  part of British Columbia Ferry Corporation,
(ii)  coastal ferries other than those coastal ferries
designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and
(iii)  part of the regional transportation system as defined
in the
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
;
.
(e) canals, ditches, drains and earthworks required for the
construction, repair, maintenance, alteration or improvement of
government buildings, highways and public works.
Powers of minister
12
The minister has the management, charge and direction of all
matters relating to the acquisition, construction, repair,
maintenance, alteration, improvement and operation of government
buildings, highways and public works, except as provided by law or
by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Duties of officers in ministry
13
It is the duty of officers in the ministry to do the following as
the minister directs:
(a) to prepare maps, plans and estimates for all government
buildings, highways and public works which are about to be
constructed, altered or repaired by the ministry;
(b) to report on a question relating to government buildings,
highways and public works which are submitted to them;
(c) to examine and revise all plans, estimates and
recommendations of other officers;
(d) to check and verify all certificates and accounts for
government buildings, highways and public works and their repairs;
(e) to generally advise the minister on all architectural and
engineering questions affecting government buildings, highways and
public works.
Certified copies of documents
14
A copy of a map, plan, correspondence, letter, order, certificate,
licence or other document in the ministry, certified by the
minister to be a true copy, is evidence of the document.
Minister may lease land
15
The minister may
(a) lease or accept land, rights, easements or privileges
from Canada or from a person, for the use of the ministry, and
(b) make agreements, stipulations or conditions relating to
their holding or ownership.
Power to expropriate land
16
(1)  The minister may acquire or expropriate any land,
stream, water, watercourse, fence or wall, the appropriation of
which the minister believes necessary for one or more of the
following:
(a) use, construction or maintenance of a government
building, highway or public work;
(b) use, construction or maintenance of hydraulic privileges
made or created by, from or at a government building, highway or
public work;
(c) enlargement or improvement of or obtaining better access
to a government building, highway or public work;
(d) establishment of a reserve for protecting animals, birds
or fishes;
(e) protection and control of the use of land adjacent to the
right of way of a proposed, new or relocated highway, at places
and for a depth at right angles to the highway, and for a distance
along the highway, the minister considers necessary.
(2)  The minister may for the purposes of this section
contract with all persons, guardians or trustees, not only for
themselves, their personal representatives and assigns, but also
for and on behalf of those they represent, whether infants,
absentees, mentally disordered or other persons otherwise
incapable of contracting, who own or have an interest in the land,
stream, water or watercourse.
(3)  A contract, conveyance or other instrument made under
subsection (2) is valid for all purposes.
Taking timber and gravel
17
(1)  The minister or an agent of the minister may do one or
more of the following:
(a) enter any land and take from it timber, stones, gravel,
sand, clay or other materials that the minister or the minister's
agent finds necessary to construct, maintain and repair government
buildings, highways and public works or other property under the
ministry's control;
(b) lay any materials on any land;
(c) construct, take and use any temporary roads to and from
the timber, stones, gravel, sand, clay or other materials that may
be required by the minister or the minister's agent to
conveniently pass to and from the government buildings, highways
and public works during their construction and repair;
(d) enter any land for the purpose of making proper drains to
carry off water from government buildings, highways and public
works or for keeping those drains in repair.
(2)  Compensation for the exercise of a power under
subsection (1) must be determined by the Expropriation
Compensation Board under the
Expropriation Act
.
Alteration of highways
18
(1)  The minister may discontinue or alter any part of a
highway if it interferes with the proper line or site of a
government building or public work.
(2)  Before exercising the power under subsection (1), the
minister must substitute another convenient highway.
(3)  The land used for all or part of a highway discontinued
under subsection (1) may, with the approval of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council,
(a) be transferred by the minister to and become the property
of the owner of the land of which it originally formed part, or
(b) be sold, leased or disposed of by public auction or by
tender.
(4)  The proceeds of a transaction under subsection (3) must
be paid into the consolidated revenue fund.
Removal of fences and construction of drains
19
(1)  If, in respect of a government building, highway or
public work, it is necessary to take down or remove a wall, fence
or boundary mark of an owner or occupier of adjoining land, or to
construct a canal, ditch, drain or earthwork, the minister may do
the work that is necessary.
(2)  The minister must replace the wall, fence or boundary
mark as soon as the necessity for its removal has ceased.
(3)  If the wall, fence or boundary mark has been replaced or
the canal, ditch, drain or earthwork is completed, the owner or
occupier of the land must maintain the wall, fence or boundary
mark, canal, ditch, drain or earthwork to the same extent as the
owner or occupier might be by law required to do if the wall,
fence or boundary mark had never been taken down or removed, or
the canal, ditch, drain or earthwork had always existed.
Control of public property
20
The following property remains vested in the government and under
the minister's control, unless otherwise provided by law:
(a) streams, watercourses and property acquired for the use
of government buildings, highways and public works;
(b) locks, dams, hydraulic and other works for improving the
navigation of any water;
(c) hydraulic powers created by the construction of
government buildings, highways and public works;
(d) drains, drainage and irrigation works;
(e) property acquired, constructed, repaired, maintained or
improved at the expense of the government, and not under the
control of Canada.
Control of public works
21
All government buildings, highways and public works constructed or
completed at the expense of the government and provided for in
this Act must, unless otherwise provided by law, be under the
minister's control and subject to this Act.
Minister to direct construction
22
(1)  The minister must direct the construction, maintenance
and repair of all government buildings, highways and public works
in progress, or constructed or maintained at the expense of the
government, and which are under the minister's control.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1), a highway that is a
concession highway within the meaning of the
Transportation Investment Act
is not under the ministers control during the currency of the
concession agreement within the meaning of that Act.
Tenders
23
(1)  The minister must invite tenders by public
advertisement, or if that is impracticable, by public notice, for
the construction and repair of all government buildings, highways
and public works, except for the following:
(a) in case of pressing emergency if delay would be injurious
to the public interest;
(b) if from the nature of the work it can be more
expeditiously and economically executed by the officers and
employees in the ministry;
(c) if the minister determines that an alternative
contracting process will result in competitively established costs
for the performance of the work.
(2)  The minister must cause all tenders received to be
opened in public, at a time and place stated in the advertisement
or notice.
(3)  The prices must be made known at the time the tenders
are opened.
(4)  In all cases where the minister believes it is not
expedient to let the work to the lowest bidder, the minister must
report to and obtain the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council before passing by the lowest tender, except if delay would
be injurious to the public interest.
(5)  [Repealed 2001-48-3.]
(6)  The minister or a person designated by the minister must
make available to the public, on request, the value of a contract
awarded under subsection (1) (c) and the name of the contractor.
Security to be taken
24
(1)  If a government building, highway or public work is
being carried out by contract, and in all other cases, the
minister must take all reasonable care that security is given to
the government, and deposited with the Minister of Finance, for
performance of the work within the amount and time specified.
(2)  Money must not be paid to the contractor or work
commenced on a contract until the contract has been signed by all
parties named in it and the requisite security given, except as
specified above.
(3)  On the minister's recommendation, the Lieutenant
Governor in Council may release or surrender to the contractor all
or part of the security given for the due performance of work.
Contracts for government use
25
Contracts respecting any government building, highway, public work
or property under the minister's control, entered into by the
minister or by an authorized person, take effect to the use of the
government, and may be enforced as if entered into with the
government under the authority of this Act.
Power to contract
26
(1)  The minister may contract with any person as may be
advisable to carry out this Part, but no deed, contract, document
or writing is binding on or is the act of the minister unless
signed by the minister.
(2)  Despite subsection (1), the deed, contract, document or
writing may be signed by a person authorized in writing by the
minister to do so if it is inconvenient for the minister to sign.
Compensation if there is a contract
27
(1)  In awarding on a claim arising out of a written
contract, the arbitrator, umpire or referee must decide in
accordance with the contract, and must not award compensation to a
claimant on the ground that the claimant expended a larger sum to
perform the contract than the amount stipulated in it.
(2)  The arbitrator, umpire or referee must not award
interest on a sum of money which they consider to be due to the
claimant, if there is no written contract stipulating payment of
the interest.
(3)  [Repealed 2002-63-14.]
Damages
27.1
A clause in a contract that stipulates a drawback or penalty for
(a) failure to perform a condition of the contract,
(b) neglect to complete a government building, highway or
public work, or
(c) neglect to fulfil a covenant or promise in the contract
must not be construed as punitive, but as importing by mutual
consent an assessment of the damages caused by the failure or
neglect.
Demand for records
28
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may require any person or
public officer who has possession of records, specifications,
estimates, instruments or models that relate to a government
building, highway or public work and are not private property to
deliver them without delay to the minister.
Accounts
29
(1)  The minister may require an account sent in by a person
employed by the ministry to be attested on oath.
(2)  The minister may administer that oath and the oath taken
by any witness.
Witnesses may be summoned
30
(1)  The minister may send for and examine on oath any person
the minister considers necessary on matters on which the person's
action is required under this Part, and may require the person to
bring the records and things it may be necessary to examine on the
matter.
(2)  A person to be examined must be allowed, in addition to
the person's reasonable travelling expenses, a sum according to
the scale of fees adopted in the Supreme Court.
(3)  A person who does not attend to be examined at the
minister's summons after due notice commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of not more than $100.
Annual report
31
The minister must submit to the Lieutenant Governor an annual
report of all government buildings, highways and public works
under the minister's control, to be laid before the Legislative
Assembly within 15 days from the start of each session, showing
(a) the state of, and the amounts received and expended on,
each work, and
(b) further information required to enable the Legislative
Assembly to judge the work of the ministry.
Disposal of property no longer required
32
(1)  Land no longer required for the use of a government
building, highway or public work may
(a) be disposed of by tender or public auction, under the
authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council or under a similar
authority, or
(b) be leased or transferred, with or without consideration,
to the municipality in which the property is located.
(2)  As a limit on subsection (1) (b), a gravel pit must not
be leased or transferred to a municipality except on condition
that the gravel will be used mainly for municipal purposes.
(3)  A lease of property entered into at any time under the
authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council under this Act may
be extended or renewed by order in council for a period not longer
than 5 years.
(4)  The proceeds of all sales, leases and dispositions of
property under this section must be accounted for
(a) as part of any special fund out of which the property was
purchased or is maintained, or
(b) in other cases as part of the consolidated revenue fund.
(5)  Despite subsections (1) and (2), the minister may, on
behalf of the government, for the consideration the minister
considers appropriate, lease land that is under the minister's
control under this Part to one or more of the following:
(a) a board, authority or commission established under an
Act;
(b) the BC Transportation Financing Authority under the
Build BC Act
;
(c) an incorporated society or association that provides a
public service;
(d) an incorporated cooperative association or credit union;
(e) a corporation established under an Act of the Legislature
or of Canada and of which at least 51% of the voting shares are
owned by the government.
(6)  Despite subsections (1) and (2), the minister may, on
behalf of the government, if the minister considers it in the
public interest to do so, lease to any person at current market
rates any land that is under the minister's control.
Actions against the government
33
All proceedings to enforce a contract, for recovery of damages for
breach of contract, or for the trial of a right claimed in any
property under the control of the minister, must be instituted in
the name of the Attorney General.
Section 6 (e) (i) BEFORE amended by 2003-70-217, effective March 29,
2004 (BC Reg 64/2004).
(i)  to a corporation defined in the
Company Act
to a municipality or to a regional district that is authorized to
carry on a business, enterprise or activity, or to provide a
service, relating to transport, or
Section 22 (2) was added by 2002-65-38 (after renumbering the
section 22(1) effective July 25, 2003 (BC Reg 309/2003).
Section 23 (5) BEFORE repealed by 2001-48-3, effective September 26,
2001 [30 days after August 27, 2001 (Royal Assent)].
(5)  Subsection (4) does not apply to a case where the minister
does not let the work to the lowest bidder because the lowest bidder
fails to comply with the
Skills Development and Fair Wage Act
.
Section 26 (1) BEFORE amended by 2002-20-4, effective April 11, 2002
(Royal Assent).
(1)  The minister may contract with any person as may be
advisable to carry out this Part, but no deed, contract, document or
writing is binding on or is the act of the minister unless signed by
the minister and sealed with the ministry seal.
Section 27 (1) and (2) BEFORE amended by 2002-63-13, effective
October 31, 2002 (Royal Assent).
(1)  In awarding on a claim arising out of a written contract,
the arbitrators or umpire must decide in accordance with the
contract, and must not award compensation to a claimant on the
ground that the claimant expended a larger sum to perform the
contract than the amount stipulated in it.
(2)  The arbitrators or umpire must not award interest on a sum
of money which they consider to be due to the claimant, if there is
no written contract stipulating payment of the interest.
Section 27 (3) BEFORE repealed by 2002-63-14, effective October 31,
2002 (Royal Assent).
(3)  A clause in a contract which stipulates a drawback or
penalty for failure to perform a condition of the contract, neglect
to complete a government building, highway or public work, or to
fulfil a covenant or promise in the contract, must not be construed
as punitive, but as importing an assessment by mutual consent of the
damages caused by the failure or neglect.
Section 27.1 was enacted by 2002-63-15, effective October 31, 2002
(Royal Assent).
Section 34 (2.1) was added by 2002-48-57, effective October 11, 2002
(BC Reg 274/2002).
Sections 35 to 51 BEFORE repealed by 2004-44-130, effective December
31, 2004 (BC Reg 547/2004).
Rules and charges for ferries
35
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make rules for one or more of the following:
(a) the operation and use of ferries and ferry landings;
(b) the carriage of persons and property on ferries under the
jurisdiction of the ministry;
(c) the fees and charges for use of the ferries and ferry
landings.
(2)  This section does not apply to ferries or ferry landings
that are part of British Columbia Ferry Corporation.
Government transport corporation
36
In sections 37 to 43,
"corporation"
means a corporation incorporated under the authority of section
37.
Power to incorporate
37
(1)  With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
the minister may incorporate a company under the
Business Corporations Act
to carry out any of the objects set out in section 38.
(2)  With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
the minister may incorporate additional corporations under the
Business Corporations Act
, or an Act of Canada, another province, the United States of
America or a state of the United States of America to engage in
any other business necessary or incidental to the operation of a
shipping or ferry service.
(3)  The corporation is for all purposes an agent of the
government, but it may on behalf of the government carry out its
powers and duties in its own corporate name.
Objects
38
The objects of a corporation incorporated under section 37 (1) may
be one or more of the following:
(a) to acquire, administer, maintain and dispose of land, a
ship or a motor vessel, and to operate the ship or motor vessel
for shipping, ferry and related purposes;
(b) to undertake planning, development and management of
Crown land, a ship or a motor vessel that, in the minister's
opinion, will yield to British Columbia optimum economic and
social benefits;
(c) to engage in any other business necessary or incidental
to the operation of a shipping or ferry service or relating to the
property acquired or used in connection with it;
(d) for the purposes of this section, to enter agreements
with, or accept grants or fees for services from, persons,
municipalities or regional districts, Canada, another province,
the United States of America or a state of the United States of
America, or any of their agencies;
(e) to do anything necessary to operate a ferry and shipping
service or to comply with the law of Canada, a province, the
United States of America or a state of the United States of
America, or any of their departments or agencies, respecting the
operation of a ferry or shipping service and related services;
(f) to engage in the business of preparing, printing,
distributing and selling maps, charts, mapping services,
publications or photographs to other ministries of the government,
Crown corporations or the public;
(g) to expend capital sums required for the purposes of this
section from its own funds or out of money appropriated by the
Legislature or authorized under the
Financial Administration Act
for those purposes;
(h) to prepare or present displays, exhibitions or
conferences relating to the planning, use, development and
management of land or the operation of a ferry or shipping
service;
(i) to operate a highway that is a concession highway within
the meaning of the
Transportation Investment Act
.
Capital of special corporation
39
(1)  If the minister incorporates a corporation under the
Business Corporations Act
, all of the following provisions apply:
(a) the minister must determine the corporations authorized
share structure, as that term is defined in the
Business Corporations Act
, and the par value of its shares, if any;
(b) the issued capital stock must be issued to and registered
in the name of the minister or the minister's nominee on behalf of
the government;
(c) the Lieutenant Governor in Council may order that certain
provisions of the
Business Corporations Act
do not apply to the corporation.
(2)  If the minister applies to incorporate a corporation
other than under the
Company Act
or another Act, all of the following provisions apply:
(a) the minister must determine the authorized capital and
the par value of its shares, if any;
(b) the issued capital stock must be issued to and registered
in the name of the minister or the minister's nominee on behalf of
the government;
(c) the minister may apply to restrict the objects or
businesses in the memorandum of association or application for
incorporation to objects or businesses relating to the acquisition
and operation of a ferry or shipping service;
(d) the minister may determine any matter required to
complete an application to incorporate a corporation under any Act
or law.
Directors and power to borrow
40
(1)  If the minister incorporates a corporation for any
purpose in sections 37 to 43, unless the law of Canada, a
province, the United States of America or a state of the United
States of America otherwise requires, the directors of the
corporation
(a) must not exceed 5, and
(b) may be members of the Legislative Assembly or of the
public service under the
Public Service Act
.
(2)  A director who is a member of the Legislative Assembly
or the public service may not accept payment from a corporation.
(3)  A corporation may borrow money in an aggregate
outstanding amount not exceeding $250 000 without the
approval of the Legislature or the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
and in addition, may borrow money in an aggregate outstanding
amount not exceeding $10 million with the approval of the
Legislature or the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
(4)  A director who votes in favour of a bylaw authorizing
the corporation to borrow in contravention of subsection (3)
commits an offence.
(5)  The board of directors may, by resolution, delegate any
of their powers or the powers of the corporation under this
section to any director or officer of the corporation.
(6)  A resolution under this section approved by the required
number of directors by telex, telegraph, telephone or any other
similar means of communication confirmed in writing or other
graphic communication, is as valid as if it had been passed at a
meeting of the directors properly called and constituted.
(7)  The notes, bonds, debentures and other securities must
bear the seal of the corporation and, together with any coupons
attached, must bear the signatures in writing of
(a) the chair and another director or officer, or
(b) other directors or officers as the corporation may
determine.
(8)  Mechanically reproduced signatures under subsection (7)
are for all purposes valid and binding on the corporation, even
though the person whose signature is reproduced has ceased to hold
office before the date of the security or before its issue.
Special provisions for corporations
41
(1)  The
Public Service Act
and
Public Service Labour Relations Act
do not apply to officers and employees of a corporation.
(2)  [Repealed 1999-44-87.]
(3)  The money and revenues received by a corporation must be
used and dealt with for the purposes of the corporation, but any
dividends declared by the directors of the corporation are payable
to the consolidated revenue fund.
(4)  If there is a conflict or inconsistency between the
Business Corporations Act
and this Act respecting a corporation, this Act prevails.
(5)  Unless otherwise provided by a bylaw of a corporation,
its fiscal year is a period ending on March 31 in each year.
(6)  At least once in each year the Comptroller General or an
auditor designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council must
audit the books and accounts of a corporation and report to the
minister and to the corporation.
(7)  A corporation must report to the minister on its affairs
and business when the minister considers necessary, and must
report annually to the minister, for the immediately preceding
fiscal year, on the affairs and business of the corporation and on
the financial condition of the corporation.
(8)  The minister must lay a report under subsection (7)
before the Legislative Assembly if it is then sitting, and if it
is not sitting, within 15 days after the first session in the
following calendar year begins.
Financial provisions
42
(1)  The Lieutenant Governor in Council may do one or more of
the following:
(a) on behalf of the government, purchase shares in
corporations for an amount not exceeding, in the aggregate for all
corporations, $4 million;
(b) advance money to the corporation on the terms and
conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council approves;
(c) make temporary loans to the corporation on security,
terms and conditions the Lieutenant Governor in Council approves;
(d) guarantee on behalf of the government the repayment of
principal and interest and the performance of an obligation for
the payment of money under a security, loan or other obligation
for the payment of money;
(e) make grants to a corporation to carry out programs and
projects relating to land planning, development and use, Crown
land development and disposition, or any purpose for which the
corporation is incorporated under this section;
(f) pay to a corporation fees for services rendered to the
government, a ministry of government or a Crown corporation.
(2)  The amount of money borrowed by a corporation under
subsection (1) (b) or (c) or from other sources must not exceed
the amount set out in section 40 (3).
(3)  The form, extent and manner of the guarantee must be as
the Lieutenant Governor in Council approves and it must be signed
by the Minister of Finance or an officer designated by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Minister designated in relation to shipping and ferries
43
The Minister of Transportation and Highways must exercise the
powers and duties in sections 37 to 42 relating to shipping, ferry
and related services, and this section applies in all respects to
the corporations incorporated as British Columbia Steamship
Company (1975) Limited and British Columbia Steamship Company,
Inc.
Part 3 — Coquihalla Highway Administration
Definitions
44
In this Part:
"highway"
means the Coquihalla Highway;
"vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or thing is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a device designed to be
moved by human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or
tracks.
Tolls
45
The government may establish a system of tolls to be paid in
respect of the use of vehicles on the highway.
Users to pay tolls
46
(1)  If, under the regulations, a toll station has been
established on the highway, a person must not take or operate a
vehicle, other than a vehicle exempted from this Part, through the
toll station without paying the toll prescribed for the vehicle.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a vehicle exempted from
this Part.
(3)  A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence.
Power to make regulations
47
(1)  For the purposes of this Part the Lieutenant Governor in
Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
(2)  Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make regulations for this Part as follows:
(a) authorizing the minister to establish on the highway, at
places the Lieutenant Governor in Council prescribes, stations for
the collection of tolls;
(b) prescribing the toll to be paid for any vehicle or class
of vehicle passing through a toll station;
(c) providing for the manner of collection of tolls;
(d) prescribing classes of vehicles for the purposes of this
Part;
(e) exempting any class of vehicle from this Part;
(f) respecting the management of the highway;
(g) respecting any matter considered necessary or advisable
to carry out effectively the intent and purpose of this Part.
Part 4 — Inland Ferry Administration
Definitions
48
In this Part:
"ferry"
means a ship, boat, vessel, barge or other means of transportation
over water of individuals or goods if the ferry is
(a) under the jurisdiction of the government,
(b) not a ferry to which the
Ferry Corporation Act
applies, and
(c) prescribed to be a ferry, or is within a prescribed class
of ferries, to which this Part applies;
"terminal"
means the buildings, fixtures, structures, docks, wharves, ramps,
landings, approaches, ways, offices and other improvements and
facilities, other than land or a ferry, necessary for or
incidental to the operation of ferry, shipping and related
services and incidental facilities and improvements;
"vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or thing is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a device designed to be
moved by human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or
tracks.
Power to make regulations
49
(1)  For the purposes of this Part, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
(2)  Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may make regulations for this Part as follows:
(a) prescribing a ferry or class of ferries to which this
Part applies;
(b) providing for the direction and control of passenger and
vehicular traffic on ferries and in the vehicle and passenger
areas of terminals or ferries;
(c) respecting the safety and security of individuals on
ferries and in the vehicle and passenger areas of ferries or
terminals;
(d) prohibiting conduct on ferries or in the vehicle or
passenger areas of ferries or terminals that does or could
(i)  pose a risk to the health, safety or security of
individuals or property, or
(ii)  interfere with the comfort and enjoyment of individuals
using ferries or terminals;
(e) respecting the manner in which passengers and vehicles
are to load onto and unload from ferries;
(f) respecting parking at terminals or on ferries;
(g) prescribing tolls or rates for carrying individuals,
vehicles or property on a ferry;
(h) prescribing the tolls or rates to be paid for
individuals, a vehicle or a class of vehicles passing through a
terminal;
(i) providing for the manner of collection of tolls or rates;
(j) exempting a class of individuals or vehicles from this
Part;
(k) prescribing schedules of ferry departures or arrivals.
(3)  A regulation under subsection (2) may make different
provisions for different
(a) ferries or terminals or classes of ferries or terminals,
(b) individuals or classes of individuals,
(c) vehicles or types or classes of vehicles, or
(d) tolls or rates, including the establishment of special or
discount tolls or rates for groups or individuals.
Duty of owner and passenger
50
(1)  In this section and section 51:
"owner"
includes, for a vehicle,
(a) the operator of the vehicle,
(b) a person in possession of the vehicle under a contract by
which the person may become the owner on full compliance with the
contract, and in whose name alone that vehicle is registered, and
(c) a person who rents or leases the vehicle from another
person;
"passenger"
means a passenger in a vehicle or on a ferry.
(2)  If a toll or rate has been prescribed under section 49
(2) for the carriage of individuals, vehicles or property on a
ferry, or for individuals, vehicles or a class of vehicles passing
through a terminal, an owner of a vehicle and a passenger must pay
the toll or rate applicable to them.
(3)  Subsection (2) does not apply to an individual or a
vehicle exempted from this Part.
Offence and penalty
51
(1)  An owner of a vehicle or a passenger who contravenes
this Part or the regulations under this Part applicable to them
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of up to
$2 000.
(2)  An owner must not be held liable under subsection (1) if
the owner establishes that
(a) the person who was, at the time of the contravention, in
possession of the vehicle was not the person entrusted by the
owner with possession, or
(b) the owner exercised reasonable care and diligence when
that owner entrusted the vehicle to the person who was, at the
time of the contravention, in possession of the motor vehicle.
(3)  On a prosecution of an owner of a vehicle for an offence
under this section, the burden is on the defendant to prove that
(a) the person in possession of the vehicle was not a person
entrusted by the owner with possession, or
(b) the registered owner is not the owner.
(4)  An owner of a vehicle is liable under subsection (1)
even if the vehicle, at the time of the contravention, is
unattended or is not in the possession of a person.
Section 35 BEFORE amended by 2003-14-84, effective April 1, 2003.
35
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make rules for one or more
of the following:
(a) the operation and use of ferries and ferry landings;
(b) the carriage of persons and property on ferries under the
jurisdiction of the ministry;
(c) the fees and charges for use of the ferries and ferry
landings.
Section 35 (2) was added by 2003-14-84, effective April 1, 2003.
Section 37 (1) and (2) BEFORE amended by 2003-70-218, effective
March 29, 2004 (BC Reg 64/2004).
(1)  With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
the minister may incorporate a company under the
Company Act
to carry out any of the objects set out in section 38.
(2)  With the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
the minister may incorporate additional corporations under the
Company Act
, or an Act of Canada, another province, the United States of
America or a state of the United States of America to engage in any
other business necessary or incidental to the operation of a
shipping or ferry service.
Section 38 (i) was added by 2002-65-39, effective July 25, 2003 (BC
Reg 309/2003).
Section 39 (1) BEFORE amended by 2003-70-219, effective March 29,
2004 (BC Reg 64/2004).
(1)  If the minister incorporates a corporation under the
Company Act
, all of the following provisions apply:
(a) the minister must determine the authorized capital and the
par value of its shares, if any;
(b) the issued capital stock must be issued to and registered
in the name of the minister or the minister's nominee on behalf of
the government;
(c) the Lieutenant Governor in Council may order that certain
provisions of the
Company Act
do not apply to the corporation.
Section 41 (1) BEFORE amended by 2002-20-5, effective October 3,
2003 (BC Reg 352/2003).
(1)  The
Ferry Act
,
Public Service Act
and
Public Service Labour Relations Act
do not apply to officers and employees of a corporation.
Section 41(4) BEFORE amended by 2003-70-220, effective March 29,
2004 (BC Reg 64/2004).
(4)  If there is a conflict or inconsistency between the
Company Act
and this Act respecting a corporation, this Act prevails.
Part 4, sections 48 to 51 were added by 2002-20-6, effective October
3, 2003 (BC Reg 352/2003).
Supplement BEFORE repealed by 2004-44-131, effective December 31,
2004 (BC Reg 547/2004).
[Supplement]
Ministry of Transportation and Highways Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 311
1
Section 16 (2) of the Ministry of Transportation and Highways
Act is amended by adding
", substitute decision makers"
after
"guardians".
1993-35-89.
Commencement
2
Section 1 comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.
1993-35-100.
