"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Youth Justice Act
Youth Correctional Programs Regulation
B.C. Reg. 562/77
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 137/2005, effective April 18,
2005.
B.C. Reg. 562/77
O.C. 3730/77
Filed December 12, 1977
Youth Justice Act
Youth Correctional Programs Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Youth Justice Act
;
"breach of conduct"
by a youth means that the youth has
(a) interfered improperly in the operation of a youth custody
centre,
(b) contravened a rule or regulation applicable to the youth
at a youth custody centre, or
(c) committed an offence under an enactment of Canada or
British Columbia;
"chaplain"
means a chaplain appointed under the Act;
"director"
means the person in charge of a youth custody centre at a location
specified in the director's appointment under the Act and includes
an employee authorized by the minister to act in place of the
director;
"medical officer"
means a medical practitioner or a registered nurse;
"minister"
means the minister charged with the administration of the
provisions of the Act relating to youths and includes an employee
authorized by the minister to act in the minister's place;
"parent"
includes a guardian of the person of a youth;
"youth"
means a young person in custody at a youth custody centre;
"youth programs"
means all programs provided by the minister for youths;
"youth supervisor"
means a person employed at or providing services under contract
for youth at a youth custody centre.
[en. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 1.]
Maintenance of records
2
(1)  A director shall maintain,
(a) a plan of the buildings and grounds,
(b) a chart illustrating the administrative structure, and
(c) records concerning each youth
for which the director has management responsibility.
(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 2 (b).]
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 2.]
Access to facilities by M.P.s and M.L.A.s
3
(1)  On written request from
(a) a Member of the Parliament of Canada,
(b) a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Province,
(c) a member of the committee,
(d) a judge, or
(e) a person authorized in writing by the minister for the
purposes of this section,
a director or other person in authority at the buildings and
grounds shall allow the Member, judge or authorized person
immediate access at any time to youths, staff, and any part of the
buildings and grounds for which the director has management
responsibility.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the director
decides that the presence at the buildings or grounds of a Member,
judge or authorized person referred to in subsection (1) would
result in harm to a youth or would interfere with the orderly
operation of a youth custody centre, the director may order the
Member or authorized person barred or removed.
(3)  Where a director has made an order under subsection (2),
the director shall forthwith
(a) make a written record of the time and reasons for his
order, and
(b) forward copies of this record to
(i)  the Member, judge or authorized person,
(ii)  the minister, and
(iii)  the director.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 3.]
Repealed
4-5
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 4.]
Duties of a youth supervisor on learning of injury or illness of a
youth or damage by the youth
6
Where a youth supervisor believes that a youth
(a) has injured himself or others,
(b) has extensively damaged property,
(c) is physically or mentally ill, or
(d) may injure himself or others, extensively damage
property, or become physically or mentally ill,
the youth supervisor shall forthwith advise the director.
Repealed
7-8
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 4.]
Money transactions by youth supervisors
9
Except as allowed by the provisions for the operation of a youth
custody centre, no youth supervisor shall conduct a money or
business transaction with, or on behalf of, a youth.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 5.]
Searching the person or property of a youth
10
(1)  On admission of a youth to a youth custody centre, and
at such subsequent times while the youth remains in a youth
custody centre as a youth supervisor considers necessary, a youth
supervisor of the same gender as the youth may search the person
or property of the youth.
(2)  A search under subsection (1) shall be conducted in a
manner respecting, as far as is reasonably possible, the privacy
and dignity of the youth.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 5.]
Seizure of property of a youth
11
(1)  Where, in the opinion of a youth supervisor, the
continued possession of an object by a youth is contrary to the
proper operation of the youth custody centre, the youth supervisor
shall take possession of the object and hold it in a secure place.
(2)  Where an object is seized under subsection (1), the
youth supervisor shall give the youth a receipt adequately
identifying the object.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 6.]
Rules of conduct
12
(1)  A director shall establish written rules of conduct for
the youth correctional programs at the location for which the
director has management responsibility.
(2)  On admission of a youth to a youth custody centre, the
director shall give the youth a written copy of the rules of
conduct governing the program and shall give the youth whatever
verbal explanation of the rules is necessary in order for the
youth to understand them.
(3)  The rules of conduct of a youth custody centre shall
include a description of the daily activities of the program and
of the role of the director and of the youth supervisors.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 5.]
Consequences of a breach of the rules of conduct
13
(1)  Where a youth supervisor reports an unresolved breach of
conduct by a youth, the director shall meet with the youth and
other persons considered appropriate by the director, and shall
attempt to resolve the breach.
(2)  The director may order consequences, appropriate in
light of acceptable community standards, for a youth who has been
found to have knowingly committed a breach of conduct.
Monetary allowances
14
(1)  The director may, to reward participation by youths in
activities specified by the director, establish a scale of
monetary allowances to the youths.
(2)  A youth may spend money received under subsection (1)
only as authorized by the director.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 7.]
Secure areas
15
(1)  Where these conform with applicable health, fire, and
safety enactments, the director may establish security areas.
(2)  Subject to subsections (4) and (5), where a youth
supervisor is of the opinion that
(a) a youth has committed a breach of conduct, or
(b) a youth possesses a drug or contraband article concealed
in his body,
the youth supervisor may order the youth to be confined in a
security area established under this section.
(3)  Where a youth is confined under this section,
(a) the youth supervisor shall forthwith advise the director,
(b) the director shall, every 4 hours, review whether the
order of confinement should continue,
(c) the order of confinement shall not continue in force for
more than 72 hours,
(d) while within the security area, the youth shall be viewed
by a youth supervisor at intervals of not more than 15 minutes
during the confinement, and the youth supervisor shall make a
written record of the youth's apparent condition and the time of
observation, and
(e) the director shall ensure that a youth supervisor is on
duty at all times within hearing range of the youth.
(4)  A youth shall only be confined pursuant to an order
under subsection (2) (b) if the youth is under the supervision of
a medical officer throughout the period of confinement.
(5)  Where a youth apparently requires special supervision or
segregation for medical or psychiatric reasons, the youth shall
not be confined under this section.
[am. B.C. Regs. 167/87; 225/97, s. 7.]
Grievance procedure
16
(1)  Where a youth tells a staff member that the youth wishes
to discuss a matter with the director, the staff member shall
forthwith tell the director of this request.
(2)  On receipt of a request under this section, the director
shall arrange to meet with the youth and discuss the matter as
soon as practical.
(3)  A director may investigate any grievance submitted to
the director under this section and shall report all
investigations of grievances by youths to the director referred to
in section 34 of the Act.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 8.]
Contact and correspondence with family, lawyer, and others
17
(1)  On admission of a youth to a youth custody centre, the
director shall, as soon as reasonably possible, advise a parent of
the youth concerning the admission.
(2)  A youth in a youth custody centre has the right to
correspond directly with
(a) the director referred to in section 34 of the Act,
(b) the Ombudsman,
(c) a person designated under section 91 (1) of the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
,
(d) a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Province or
of the Parliament of Canada,
(e) the solicitor of the youth,
(f) the parents, siblings, or other relatives of the youth,
or
(g) such other persons as the director may specify.
(3)  Correspondence referred to in subsection (2) (f) or (g)
may be examined by the director.
(4)  Where, in the opinion of the director, an object
enclosed with correspondence examined by the director endangers
the security, discipline or operation of a youth custody centre,
the director may seize the object and file it in a secure place.
(5)  Where an object is seized under this section, the
director shall give the youth a receipt identifying it.
(6)  No correspondence described by subsection (2) (a), (b),
(c), (d) or (e) shall be examined under this section.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 9.]
Telephone privileges
18
(1)  At the discretion of the director, a youth shall be
allowed reasonable opportunity to telephone parents, the solicitor
of the youth, or other persons.
(2)  On admission to a youth custody centre on order of
remand or warrant for arrest, a youth has the right to telephone a
parent, solicitor or both, as soon as practical.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 10.]
Visiting privileges
19
(1)  A director shall establish general rules to regulate
visits to youths by a parent, solicitor, or other persons.
(2)  On admission to a youth custody centre on order of
remand or warrant for arrest, a youth shall be allowed a visit by
the youth's parent, solicitor, or both, as soon as practical.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 10.]
Medical examination of youth on admission to a detention centre or
youth containment centre
20
(1)  On admission to a youth custody centre, a youth shall,
as soon as practical, be examined by a medical officer, who shall
prepare a written report on the state of the youth's health.
(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 11 (b).]
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 11.]
Medical officer to be advised where a youth is apparently ill
21
(1)  A director shall ensure that each youth for whom the
director has management responsibility has access to the services
of a medical officer.
(2)  A medical officer shall be advised if a youth complains
of illness or if the youth is apparently physically or mentally
ill or in danger of becoming so.
(3)  On being advised under subsection (2), a medical officer
shall ensure that a medical officer examines the youth as soon as
reasonable.
Duties of medical officer where a health problem is identified
22
(1)  Where a medical officer forms the opinion that
(a) a youth may require special medical or psychiatric
treatment or segregation for medical reasons,
(b) a youth presents a medical danger to himself or to
others, or
(c) the level of hygiene in a youth custody centre is
inadequate,
the medical officer shall forthwith report this opinion in writing
to the director.
(2)  Where a director receives a report under subsection (1)
(b), the director shall, subject to section 15 (5), provide close
supervision for the youth until the medical officer advises that
this is no longer necessary.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 12.]
Controlled or restricted drugs and prescriptions
23
(1)  A director shall ensure that all controlled or
restricted drugs dispensed or held as part of a youth custody
centre are under the control and supervision of a medical officer.
(2)  The medical officer shall keep an inventory of all
controlled or restricted drugs under his control as part of a
youth custody centre, and shall keep a written record of each
prescription issued for a youth under the medical supervision of
the medical officer.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 12.]
Meals
24
(1)  A director shall ensure that meals provided as part of a
youth custody centre are
(a) for each youth in the youth custody centre, adequate in
quality and quantity as recommended by the most current Government
Dietary Standards for Canada and the Daily Food Guide of the
Ministry of Health of the Province, and
(b) prepared, cooked, served, and stored in a manner that
best conserves the nutritional value, flavour, texture, and
appearance of the meals.
(2)  Daily meals in a youth custody centre shall include
breakfast, lunch, and supper and a light snack during the evening
hours.
(3)  Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the director,
in consultation with a medical officer, may specify a special diet
for youths in a youth custody centre specified by the director.
(4)  Notwithstanding this section, restrictions of diets or
special diets shall not be used for the purposes of control or
discipline of youths.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 13.]
Educational services
25
(1)  A director shall provide an adequate location, within a
youth custody centre under the management responsibility of the
director, for the provision of educational services to the youths
there.
(2)  The director shall cooperate with local educational
authorities so that they may provide teaching staff, materials,
and other educational services appropriate to the needs of the
youths.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 14.]
Recreational services
26
To promote good health, self-discipline, and teamwork among youths
in a youth custody centre under a director's managerial
responsibility, the director shall provide recreational
opportunity to the youths, including
(a) not less than one hour each day devoted to such
recreation, and
(b) where practical, both indoor and outdoor activities.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 12.]
Other services
27
A director shall make all reasonable efforts to ensure that
services provided by community and government agencies that would
benefit youths under the management responsibility of the director
are made available to the youths.
Religious services
28
(1)  The chaplain assigned to a youth custody centre at a
particular location shall develop and maintain a program of
religious observance and counselling in order that those youths
who wish to take part in these religious services may do so.
(2)  No youth shall be required to participate in any
religious service against the youth's will.
(3)  On request of a youth under his managerial
responsibility, a director may, in consultation with a chaplain,
authorize a minister, priest, rabbi or similar religious figure to
visit the youth.
(4)  Requests by a youth to see a chaplain shall be
communicated to a chaplain as soon as practical and, on receipt of
a request, a chaplain shall, as soon as practical, arrange for the
youth to be visited.
(5)  In the performance of the chaplain's duties the chaplain
shall, subject to whatever restrictions the director considers
necessary, have access to youth, staff, and every part of all
buildings and grounds within a youth custody centre.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 12.]
Repealed
29-30
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 15.]
Clothing and personal effects
31
On admission and thereafter as needed, a youth in a youth custody
centre shall, in accordance with standards to be specified by the
director having management responsibility, be issued bedding,
towels, items of toiletry, and clothing.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 16.]
Fire safety
32
(1)  A director will cooperate fully with the fire
commissioner's office and will implement any recommendation they
make to improve the fire safety of facilities used in a youth
custody centre.
(2)  A director shall ensure that an adequate plan is in
readiness to evacuate buildings within the director's management
responsibility should fire break out and that youths and youth
supervisors are properly trained and prepared to carry out this
plan.
[am. B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 16.]
Repealed
33-34
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 225/97, s. 17.]
[Provisions of the
Youth Justice Act
, S.B.C. 2003, c. 85, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 44]
