"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Insurance Corporation Act
Guidelines Regulation for the Investment or Loan of Funds of the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
B.C. Reg. 352/90
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 322/2003, effective August 12,
2003.
B.C. Reg. 352/90
O.C. 1425/90
Deposited September 17, 1990
Insurance Corporation Act
Guidelines Regulation for the Investment or Loan of Funds
of the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may invest or lend its
funds according to the following guidelines:
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"corporation"
means the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;
"currency"
means the currency of a country or any other unit of monetary
value;
"securities"
means bonds, debentures, deposit certificates, promissory notes,
treasury bills or other evidences of indebtedness, shares and
stock, and includes any documents commonly known as securities;
"Schedule"
means Schedule III of the Pension Benefits Standards Regulations
1985, SOR/87-19, made under the
Pension Benefits Standards Act, 1985
(Canada).
Investments
2
The corporation has the authority to invest or lend its funds, or
parts of them,
(a) in any of the classes of investments or classes of loans
under the Schedule as the Schedule reads on the day this section
comes into force, and for this purpose the restrictions, limits
and conditions established by the Schedule apply, except that
(i)  the references to the "Superintendent" in the Schedule
shall be read as references to the Minister of Finance and
Corporate Relations,
(ii)  the references to the "plan" in the Schedule shall be
read as references to the corporation,
(iii)  the reference to "% of the book value of the total
assets of the plan" in the Schedule shall be read as references to
"% of the book value of the total assets of the corporation",
(iv)  section 1 of the Schedule shall be read to include the
following paragraph:
(n.1)  bonds, debentures or other evidence of indebtedness
issued by a company incorporated under the laws of Canada or of a
Province where these securities are rated as investment grade by 2
or more recognized security rating institutions;, and
(b) in any of the following classes of investments or classes
of loans:
(i)  securities that are obligations of or guaranteed by
Canada, a Province of Canada or the United States of America;
(ii)  deposits, notes, certificates or other paper of or
guaranteed by a savings institution rated as investment grade or
better by 2 recognized security rating institutions, including
swapped deposit transactions in the currency of the United States
of America, forward rate agreement and fixed to floating rate and
floating to fixed rate swaps;
(iii)  securities issued by the Municipal Finance Authority
of British Columbia;
(iv)  financial options and financial futures, including
currency and fixed income instruments;
(v)  securities that are obligations of or are guaranteed by
the government of a country and have a quality rating,
satisfactory to the corporation, from a recognized security rating
institution.
[am. B.C. Reg. 294/99.]
Corporation may loan securities
3
Where the corporation acquires securities under section 2, the
corporation may loan the securities, provided that the loan is
secured by collateral security that falls within one or more of
the classes of investments or of loans permitted under section 2.
Administration of investments
4
Where the corporation is authorized to make an investment or loan
under section 2 or 3, the corporation may
(a) dispose of the investment or loan,
(b) exchange the investment or loan for another investment or
loan permitted under section 2 or 3, or
(c) do all things necessary or advisable for the purpose of
making, continuing, exchanging or disposing of the investment or
loan, including buying and selling currency on a current or future
delivery basis.
Disposition not required
5
Nothing in these regulations requires the corporation to dispose
of investments or loans that were lawfully acquired on the date of
their acquisition.
[Provisions of the
Insurance Corporation Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 228, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 29 (1)]
