"point in time" regulation content Continuing care act Continuing care programs regulation B.c. reg. 146/95 Note:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the Changes made on the effective date. (pit covers changes made From september 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the Regulation.)
Section
Effective date Schedule
January 14, 2010
January 31, 2010
March 8, 2012
June 1, 2015
April 15, 2019
Schedule before amended by bc reg 4/2010, effective january 14, 2010.
1 The following programs administered by the continuing care program Of the ministry of health:
(a) home support services; (b) adult day services; (c) meals programs (including meals on wheels and congregate Meal programs); (d) continuing care respite services; (e) continuing care case management; (f) continuing care residential facilities (group homes for Independent living, family care homes, personal, intermediate and Multilevel care facilities); (g) short stay assessment and treatment centres; (h) home oxygen program; (i) assisted living services.
2 Pharmacare programs, including but not limited to the following:
(a) repealed. [b.c. reg. 61/2002.] (b) repealed. [b.c. reg. 190/2003.] (c) plan b — providing full reimbursement for qualified Residents of licensed long term care facilities and private Hospitals;
(d) plan c — providing benefits for qualified residents who Are eligible for ministry of social service or refugee status Health care benefits; (e) plan d — providing coverage for provision of digestive Enzymes for qualified residents with cystic fibrosis; (f) repealed. [b.c. reg. 190/2003.] (g) plan f — providing coverage for persons qualified under The
(i)  at home program for children with severe handicaps, and (ii)  associate family program providing community based Family-style care for children with multiple disabilities and who Reside in residential settings.
(h) fair pharmacare program — providing assistance, based on Family net income, to qualified residents who are not receiving Benefits under any other pharmacare plan.
Schedule, section 1 (f) before amended by bc reg 277/2009, effective January 31, 2010.
(f) continuing care residential facilities (group homes for Independent living, family care homes, personal, intermediate and Multilevel care facilities); Schedule, section 1 (j) and (k) were added by bc reg 277/2009, Effective january 31, 2010.
Schedule, section 2 before amended by bc reg 32/2012, effective March 8, 2012.
2 Pharmacare programs, including but not limited to the following:
(a) repealed. [b.c. reg. 61/2002.] (b) repealed. [b.c. reg. 190/2003.] (c) plan b — providing full reimbursement for qualified Residents of licensed long term care facilities and private Hospitals;
(d) plan c — providing benefits for qualified residents who Are eligible for ministry of housing and social development or Refugee status health care benefits; (e) plan d — providing coverage for provision of digestive Enzymes for qualified residents with cystic fibrosis; (f) repealed. [b.c. reg. 190/2003.] (g) plan f — providing coverage for persons qualified under The
(i)  at home program for children with severe handicaps, and (ii)  associate family program providing community based Family-style care for children with multiple disabilities and who Reside in residential settings; (h) fair pharmacare program — providing assistance, based on Family net income, to qualified residents who are not receiving Benefits under any other pharmacare plan.
Schedule, section 2 before repealed by 73/2015, effective june 1, 2015.
2 The pharmacare program, which includes the following drug plans:
(a) Plan b, "permanent residents of licensed residential care Facilities", providing coverage to eligible (i) Residents of residential community care facilities licensed under The
Community care and assisted living act , or (ii) Patients of hospitals licensed under part 2 of the Hospital act ; (b) Plan c, "recipients of income assistance", providing coverage to Residents, or persons holding refugee status in canada, who Receive health care benefits under the Employment and assistance act Or
Employment and assistance for persons with disabilities act ; (c) Plan d, "cystic fibrosis", providing coverage to eligible Residents with cystic fibrosis for the provision of digestive Enzymes;
(d) Plan f, "children in the at home program", providing coverage to Children who are the subject of payments made through the program Known as the "at home program" administered by the ministry of the Minister responsible for the Child, family and community service act ; (e) Plan g, "no-charge psychiatric medication", providing coverage to Eligible residents for the provision of psychiatric medications; (f) Plan i, "fair pharmacare", providing coverage to eligible Residents based on net family income; (g) Plan m, "medication management", providing coverage to eligible Residents for medication management services provided by Pharmacists;
(h) Plan p, "palliative care", providing coverage to eligible Residents who receive palliative care at home; (i) Plan s, "smoking cessation program", providing coverage to Eligible residents for the provision of nicotine replacement Therapies;
(j) Plan x, "british columbia centre for excellence in hiv/aids", Providing coverage to residents who are hiv-positive and enrolled With the british columbia centre for excellence in hiv/aids, st.
Paul's hospital, vancouver, for the provision of antiretroviral Drugs.
Schedule before re-enacted by bc reg 83/2019, effective april 15, 2019.
Schedule
[am. b.c. regs. 61/2002; 1/2003; 190/2003; 277/2009; 4/2010, s. 3; 32/2012, sch 1; 73/2015, s. (a).] 1 The following programs administered by the continuing care program Of the minister's ministry:
(a) Home support services; (b) Adult day services; (c) Meals programs (including meals on wheels and congregate meal Programs);
(d) Continuing care respite services; (e) Continuing care case management; (f) Continuing care residential care services; (g) Short stay assessment and treatment centres; (h) Home oxygen program; (i) Assisted living services; (j) Home care nursing; (k) Community rehabilitation services.
2 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 73/2015, s. (a).]