"point in time" regulation content Health professions act Midwives regulation B.c. reg. 103/95 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 270/2008, effective october 17, 2008.
B.c. reg. 103/95 O.c. 269/95 Deposited march 15, 1995 Health professions act Midwives regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"aboriginal" Means relating to the indian, inuit or métis peoples of canada; "aboriginal midwifery" Means
(a) traditional aboriginal midwifery practices such as the Use and administration of traditional herbs and medicines and Other cultural and spiritual practices, (b) contemporary aboriginal midwifery practices which are Based on, or originate in, traditional aboriginal midwifery Practices, or (c) a combination of traditional and contemporary aboriginal Midwifery practices; "reserve" Means a reserve as defined in the Indian act .
[am. b.c. reg. 103/95, s. 8.] Designation
2 (1)  midwifery is designated as a health profession.
(2)  the "college of midwives of british columbia" is the Name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Health professions act For midwifery.
Reserved title 3 No person other than a registrant may use the title "midwife".
Scope of practice 4 (1)  subject to the bylaws, registrants may (a) assess, monitor, and care for women during normal Pregnancy, labour, delivery and the post-partum period, (b) counsel, support and advise women during pregnancy, Labour, delivery and the post-partum period.
(c) manage spontaneous normal vaginal deliveries, (d) care for, assess and monitor the healthy newborn, and (e) provide advice and information regarding care for Newborns and young infants and deliver contraceptive services During the 3 months following birth.
(2)  subject to the bylaws, aboriginal registrants may Practise aboriginal midwifery.
Reserved acts 5 (1)  subject to section 14 of the Health professions act , no person other than a registrant may, for the purposes of Midwifery,
(a) conduct internal examinations of women during pregnancy, Labour, delivery and the post-partum period, (b) manage spontaneous normal vaginal deliveries, (c) perform episiotomies and amniotomies during established Labour and repair episiotomies and simple lacerations, (d) prescribe, order or administer drugs and substances Specified in schedule 1 to this regulation, and (e) order, collect samples for, perform or interpret the Results and reports of screening and diagnostic tests specified in Schedule 2 to this regulation.
(2)  subsection (1) does not apply on a reserve to an Aboriginal person who practised aboriginal midwifery prior to the Coming into force of this regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 245/2003, s. (a).] Limitations on practice 6 (1)  registrants must (a) advise clients to consult a medical practitioner for a Medical examination during the first trimester of pregnancy, (b) consult with a medical practitioner regarding any Deviations from the normal course of pregnancy, labour, delivery And the post-partum period that indicate pathology and transfer Responsibility when necessary, and (c) consult with a medical practitioner if the result or Report of a test in item 4 of schedule 2 is abnormal.
(1.1)  a registrant may (a) prescribe or administer a substance in item 1 (2) of Schedule 1 only for intrapartum chemoprophylaxis for group b Strep,
(b) prescribe or administer a substance in item 1 (3) of Schedule 1 only for therapeutic rest in prodromal labour, (c) order and administer a drug in item 2 of schedule 1 only In emergency conditions and in consultation with a medical Practitioner, and (d) administer a drug in item 3 of schedule 1 only after Consulting with and on the order of a medical practitioner.
(2) and (3)  repealed. [b.c. reg. 103/95, s. 8.] [am. b.c. reg. 245/2003, s. (b) and (c).] Patient relations program 7 The college of midwives is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Health professions act .
Spent
8 Spent.
Schedule 1
Drugs and substances [en. b.c. reg. 245/2003, s. (d); am. b.c. regs. 468/2003, ss. (a) to (c); 32/2005; 256/2005, s. 1; 211/2007, ss. 1 and 2.] 1 (1) a midwife may prescribe or administer the following substances:
Cephalexin
Chloroprocaine — 2%
Clindamycin
Clotrimazole
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride — im Domperidone
Doxylamine succinate-pyridoxine hydrochloride Ergonovine maleate Erythromycin ophthalmic ointment Hepatitis b immune globulin Hepatitis b vaccine Hydrocortisone anorectal therapy compound Intravenous fluids — normal saline, ringer's lactate, 5% dextrose in Water
Lidocaine hydrochloride without epinephrine — 1% Measles / mumps / rubella (mmr) vaccine Miconazole
Misoprostol — po or pr Mupirocin-clotrimizole-nystatin-betamethasone Nystatin
Oxytocin — iv or im injection Phytonadione
Pregvit prenatal/postpartum vitamin-mineral supplement Pre-mixed 50/50 nitrous oxide and oxygen Rhd immune globulin Therapeutic oxygen Triamcinolone — neomycin sulfate — nystatin — gramicidin (kenacomb) Triple dye (2) subject to section 6 (1.1) (a) of the regulation, a midwife may Prescribe or administer the following substances:
Ampicillin
Cefazolin
Penicillin g Vancomycin
(3) subject to section 6 (1.1) (b) of the regulation, a midwife may Prescribe or administer the following substances:
Lorazepam (oral or sublingual) Oxazepam (oral or sublingual) 2 Subject to section 6 (1.1) (c) of the regulation, a midwife may Order and administer the following drugs:
Carboprost tromethamine Epinephrine hydrochloride Naloxone hydrochloride Nitroglycerin
3 Subject to section 6 (1.1) (d) of the regulation, a midwife may Administer the following drugs:
Acetaminophen with codeine Antibiotics
Antiemetic/sedative agents with narcotic analgesics Barbiturates
Cervical ripening agents — in hospital only Sedatives
Epidural analgesia (continuous infusion maintenance) — in hospital Only
Narcotic antagonists Narcotics — in hospital only Oxytocin intravenous infusion — in hospital only 4 A midwife may order, prescribe or administer any drug or substance That may lawfully be purchased or acquired without a prescription.
Schedule 2
Screening and diagnostic tests [en. b.c. reg. 245/2003, s. (d); am. b.c. reg. 468/2003, s. (d); 256/2005, ss. 2 and 3; 211/2007, s. 3; 317/2007.] 1 A midwife may order, collect samples for and interpret the report Of the following screening and diagnostic tests:
(a) for a woman:
(i)  chemistry: blood glucose, urinalysis (routine and Microscopic), serum ferritin, serum b12, serum thyroid stimulating Hormone, free thyroxine, maternal serum marker screening; (ii)  cytology: cervical smears (pap smears); (iii)  hematology: hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell Count with differential, red blood cell morphology, platelet Count, sickle cell solubility, fetal blood screen, kleihauer-betke And rosette; (iv)  microbiology:
(a)  cervical and vaginal cultures and smears (including Sensitivities if relevant) for group b streptococcus, gonorrhoea, Chlamydia, yeasts, trichomonas, and bacterial vaginosis; (b)  urine for culture and sensitivities; swabs for culture And sensitivities (e.g. wounds, episiotomies); (c)  wet preparation (for fungus, trichomonas, parasites); (d)  viral swabs (e.g. herpes); (v)  serology/immunology: blood group and type with antibody Screen, repeat antibody testing, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency Virus antibody, rubella antibody, toxoplasmosis antibody, syphilis Serology, cytomegalo virus antibody, hsv antibodies igg and igm; Parvovirus b19 serology including anti-b19 igg and igm, Varicella-zoster serology igg and igm; (vi)  pregnancy test (blood and urine); (b) for a newborn:
(i)  hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count with Differential, blood type and rh factor, neonatal metabolic screen, Glucose, coombs, and bilirubin; (ii)  microbiology samples: cord and eye, ear, and gastric Fluid cultures.
2 A midwife may order, perform and interpret the results of the Following screening and diagnostic tests:
(a) urine (dip stick analysis); (b) pregnancy test (urine); (c) blood glucose: adult and newborn (stix method); (d) hemoglobin (finger prick method); (e) ferning test (amniotic fluid); (f) non-stress test; (f.1) fetal fibronectin; (g) external fetal monitoring.
3 A midwife may order and interpret the report of:
(a) an obstetrical ultrasound test, or (b) an amniocentesis for advanced maternal age.
4 Subject to section 6 (1) (c) of the regulation, a midwife may Order the following tests for a woman:
(a) 24 hour urine for protein; (b) bun; (c) liver function; (d) serum creatinine; (e) serum electrolytes; (f) serum uric acid.
[provisions of the Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 12]