"point in time" regulation content Hotel room tax act; provincial sales tax act Eligible entities regulation B.c. reg. 73/2004 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 215/2013, effective december 1, 2013.
B.c. reg. 73/2004 O.c. 203/2004 Deposited february 27, 2004 Hotel room tax act; provincial sales tax act Eligible entities regulation Vancouver
1 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the city of vancouver, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the city of Vancouver as well as tourism programs and projects in the city of Vancouver.
Sun peaks mountain resort area 2 (1)  in this section, "resort area" Means the land comprising the sun peaks mountain resort area, as Set out in minister's order 135/1996.
(2)  an entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a Regulation be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the resort area, and (c) engages in (i)  tourism marketing on behalf of persons in the resort Area,
(ii)  tourism programs and projects in the resort area, and (iii)  organizing, contributing to or facilitating funding For the capital cost of constructing a public road from the resort Area to highway 1 (trans-canada).
[en. b.c. reg. 142/2005, sch. 1.] Parksville, qualicum beach and regional district of nanaimo 3 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the city of parksville, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the city of Parksville, town of qualicum beach and the regional district of Nanaimo as well as tourism programs and projects in the city of Parksville, town of qualicum beach or the regional district of Nanaimo.
[en. b.c. reg 72/2009, s. (a).] Mount washington resort area 4 (1)  in this section, "resort area" Means a portion of the comox valley regional district electoral Area c outlined in the "plan area and ownership" map in schedule j Attached to regional district of comox-strathcona bylaw no. 2042, 1998.
(2)  an entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a Regulation be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the resort area, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of persons in the Resort area as well as tourism programs and projects in the resort Area.
[en. b.c. reg. 241/2009.] Nelson, kaslo and regional district of central kootenay electoral Areas d, e and f 5 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the city of nelson, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the city of Nelson, the village of kaslo and the regional district of central Kootenay electoral areas d, e and f as well as in tourism programs And projects in the city of nelson, the village of kaslo or the Regional district of central kootenay electoral areas d, e and f.
[en. b.c. reg. 26/2010.] Clearwater and thompson-nicola regional district electoral area a 6 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the district of clearwater, And
(c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the district of Clearwater and the thompson-nicola regional district electoral Area a as well as tourism programs and projects in the district of Clearwater and the thompson-nicola regional district electoral Area a.
[en. b.c. reg. 135/2011.] Rossland
7 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the city of rossland, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the city of Rossland as well as tourism programs and projects in the city of Rossland.
[en. b.c. reg. 210/2011.] North vancouver 8 An entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a regulation Be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the city of north vancouver, And
(c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of the city of North vancouver and the district of north vancouver as well as Tourism programs and projects in the city of north vancouver and The district of north vancouver.
[en. b.c. reg. 211/2011.] Columbia-shuswap regional district 9 (1)  in this section "resort area" Means the town of golden and the columbia-shuswap regional District electoral area a, not including yoho national park.
(2)  an entity is qualified to be eligible to request that a Regulation be made under section 43 (2) (e) (ii) of the Hotel room tax act If the entity (a) is a not-for-profit business association, (b) has a place of business in the resort area, and (c) engages in tourism marketing on behalf of persons in the Resort area as well as tourism programs and projects in the resort Area.
[en. b.c. reg. 161/2012; am. b.c. reg. 162/2012, s. (a).] *.
See section 45 of the Provincial sales tax transitional provisions and amendments Act
, 2013, s.b.c. 2013, c. 1 [provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Hotel room tax act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 207, section 43 (2)]