"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
Parking Site Roll Regulation
B.C. Reg. 107/2005
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 347/2005, effective December 6,
2005.
B.C. Reg. 107/2005
O.C. 320/2005
Deposited March 18, 2005
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
Parking Site Roll Regulation
Definition
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
;
"assessment roll"
has the same meaning as in the
Assessment Act
;
"commissioner"
means the assessment commissioner appointed under section 11 of
the
Assessment Authority Act
;
"owner"
has the same meaning as in the
Assessment Act
;
"parcel"
has the same meaning as in the
Assessment Act
.
Completion of parking site roll
2
(1)  On or before December 31 of each year, the authority
must complete a new parking site roll.
(2)  A parking site roll may be prepared in microfiche or in
electronic or paper form, and must, for each property of which
some or all is liable to assessment of parking tax under section
30 of the Act, contain the following information:
(a) the name and last known address of the owner of the
property;
(b) a short description of the property;
(c) the name and address of any person who holds a registered
charge against the property if the name of that person is included
on the assessment roll for that property;
(d) the taxable parking area of the property or the number of
taxable parking spaces on the property, as the case may be;
(e) such other information not inconsistent with the Act or
this regulation as the authority may require.
(3)  Subject to this regulation, a parking site roll
completed under subsection (1) is the parking site roll for the
purpose of taxation during the calendar year following completion
of that roll.
(4)  When completing a parking site roll, the authority must
use the information contained in the records of the land title
office as those records stood on November 30 of the year in which
the parking site roll is completed.
Grouping of parcels
3
If an improvement extends over more than one parcel of land, those
parcels, if contiguous, may, for the purposes of the preparation
of a parking site roll, be treated by the authority as one parcel.
Determination date
4
For the purposes of completing a parking site roll, the taxable
parking area of, or the number of taxable parking spaces on, a
property is to be determined with reference to the extent to
which, on October 31 of the year in which the parking site roll is
completed, the property is used, available or designed for the
parking of motor vehicles or for a purpose that is in any way
related to or ancillary to that parking.
Inspection powers
5
The authority may, for any purpose relating to the preparation or
revision of a parking site roll, enter into or on and inspect any
land and improvements.
Return of information
6
(1)  Before or after the completion of a parking site roll,
the authority may, by notice served personally or sent by mail,
require a person who owns, occupies or disposes of property to
provide to the authority, within 21 days or any longer period
specified in the notice, information for any purpose related to
the preparation or revision of the parking site roll.
(2)  If the authority has reason to doubt the accuracy of
information provided in respect of a property under subsection
(1), the authority may, for the purpose of completing a parking
site roll,
(a) refrain from using any or all of the information
provided, and
(b) calculate the taxable parking area of, or the number of
taxable parking spaces on, the property in the manner the
authority considers appropriate and using any information the
authority believes to be correct.
Power to examine records
7
For the purposes of this regulation, the authority must be given
access to, and may examine and take copies of and extracts from,
the books, accounts, vouchers, documents and appraisals of or
relating to any property the authority considers is or may be, or
includes or may include, a parking site, and, for that purpose,
(a) the authority may enter on any premises for the purposes
of obtaining the access, examination, copies or extracts,
(b) if requested, an employee of a municipality must supply
to the authority any information respecting the property that the
authority may request, and
(c) if requested, a person not referred to in paragraph (b),
including, without limitation, the government and Crown
corporations and agencies, holding such records must, without
charge, furnish every facility and assistance required for the
entry, examination, copies and extracts.
Disclosure
8
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), a person who has custody or
control of information or records obtained or created under this
regulation or section 30 of the Act, must not disclose the
information or records to any other person except that
(a) disclosure of the information or records may be made in
the course of administering section 30 of the Act or this
regulation or performing functions under one or both of them,
(b) if the authority has delegated some or all of its
responsibilities to the commissioner by written agreement made in
accordance with section 30 (2.1) of the Act, disclosure of the
information or records may be made to the commissioner to the
extent necessary to allow the commissioner to exercise the
delegated powers, and
(c) disclosure of the information or records may be made to
(i)  the person to whom or about whose property the
information relates, or
(ii)  any agent of the person referred to in subparagraph (i)
if the authority is satisfied that that disclosure has been
authorized in writing by the person referred to in subparagraph
(i).
(2)  The authority may, for the purposes of a parking site
roll, including its preparation, share with the commissioner any
information that is or may be included in a parking site roll and
the commissioner may, for the purposes of a parking site roll,
including its preparation, share with the authority any
information that is or may be included in an assessment roll.
Delegation
9
The authority may delegate any or all of its powers in relation to
parking site rolls to the commissioner by written agreement made
in accordance with section 30 (2.1) of the Act.
[Provisions of the
Greater Vancouver Transportation Authority Act
, S.B.C. 1998, c. 30, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 30]
