"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Ecological Reserve Act
Ecological Reserve Regulations
B.C. Reg. 335/75
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 196/2023, effective July 18,
2023.
B.C. Reg. 335/75
O.C. 1456/75
Filed April 28, 1975
Ecological Reserve Act
Ecological Reserve Regulations
Entry to reserves restricted
1
No person shall enter upon an ecological reserve for a purpose
inconsistent with the
Ecological Reserve Act
, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no person
shall prospect for minerals, cut timber, allow domesticated
animals to graze, camp, light fires, trap or molest animals, build
roads or trails, use motorized vehicles within an ecological
reserve, or remove plants, animals or material from an ecological
reserve.
Permit required for research or educational use
2
Research or educational use of an ecological reserve may be
undertaken only when authorized by permit issued pursuant to these
regulations.
Conditions of permit
3
The administrator of ecological reserves may, by permit, authorize
the use of an ecological reserve for research or educational
purposes. The administrator shall include in each permit issued
under this section conditions that, in his opinion, are adequate
to protect the reserve and any ongoing research from disruption;
provided however that minimally disruptive procedures, such as
collection of some plant and animal specimens, soil samples, and
the like, may be specifically permitted.
If disruption to reserve may ensue
4
The administrator may not issue a permit authorizing research or
educational use of a reserve that is likely to cause any
significant disruption within the reserve without first consulting
the advisory committee. After he has consulted with the advisory
committee, the administrator may issue a permit authorizing such
research and containing such conditions as he deems advisable for
the protection of the reserve and any ongoing research.
Application for permit
5
An application for a permit under sections 2 and 3 shall contain
the following information:
(a)
a description of the proposed use;
(b)
a description of the areas of land to be affected, with an
accompanying map;
(c)
a description of the means of access to be used;
(d)
the duration of the proposed use;
(e)
the ecological impact of any activities that will be undertaken
within the reserve under the permit;
(f)
the number of individuals that will be entering the reserve under
the permit and, where possible, their names;
(g)
the name of the individual who will direct the proposed research
or educational programme.
Time limits of permits
6
Permits issued under sections 3 and 4 may be limited to one entry
or may cover a specified period of time.
Closure of reserves
7
The minister may, by order, close any reserve or portion thereof
to any or all uses or entry for a specified period of time, and
the minister may, by order, permit limited camping, hunting,
fishing and use of motorized vehicles in any reserve or portion
thereof, providing no significant disruption results to the
reserve or to any research which may be in progress.
Introduction of new species
8
No person shall introduce into an ecological reserve any plant or
animal species without the written permission of the
administrator.
Discharge of sewage, etc.
9
Subject to the terms of a permit, no person shall deposit,
discharge or emit sewage, waste materials, contaminants or any
other substance within the boundaries of an ecological reserve.
Permittee's report to administrator
10
Upon completion of any research project authorized under
section 3 or 4, the permittee shall, within 6 months,
file a report with the administrator including, if applicable:
(a)
a statement of the methodology used in the research;
(b)
an inventory of any plants or animals identified during the
research;
(c)
a description of land forms and soil conditions in the research
area; and
(d)
a statement of the results obtained and any conclusions or
recommendations reached as a result of the research.
Cancellation or modification of permit
11
(1)
The administrator may, by order, cancel or modify any permit where
he considers such action advisable because
(a)
a conflict has arisen between users;
(b)
the activities authorized by the permit may cause, or have caused,
unauthorized or unanticipated damage to the reserve;
(c)
a beneficial use is not being, or has not been, made of the
permit;
(d)
the terms or conditions of the permit have been broken, or these
regulations have been violated by the permittee or his agents.
(2)
The administrator is not required to conduct a hearing before
issuing an order under subsection (1).
(3)
The permittee may appeal any order issued by the administrator
under subsection (1) to the minister by notifying the minister and
the administrator of his intention to appeal within 30 days of
having received the administrator's order.
[Provisions of the
Ecological Reserve Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 103, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 7]
