"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Securities Act
National Instrument 44-101 Short Form Prospectus Distributions
B.C. Reg. 424/2000
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 370/2005, effective December
30, 2005.
B.C. Reg. 424/2000
British Columbia Securities Commission
Deposited December 18, 2000
effective December 31, 2000
Securities Act
National Instrument 44-101
Short Form Prospectus Distributions
Part 1 - Definitions and Interpretation
Definitions
1.1
In this Instrument:
"absolute value"
means the positive value of any number;
"acquisition of related businesses"
means the acquisitions of two or more businesses if
(a) the businesses were under common control or management
before the acquisitions were completed,
(b) each acquisition was conditional upon the completion of
each other acquisition, or
(c) each acquisition is contingent on a single common event;
"AIF"
means an annual information form
(a) in Form 51-102F2,
(b) in Form 51-102F2 or Form 44-101F1 AIF, if the annual
information form was filed in respect of financial years beginning
before January 1, 2004, or
(c) in the form referred to in section 3.4;
"alternative credit support"
means support, other than a guarantee, for the payments to be made
by an issuer of securities, as stipulated in the terms of the
securities or in an agreement governing rights of, or granting
rights to, holders of the securities, that
(a) obliges the person or company providing the support to
provide the issuer with funds sufficient to enable the issuer to
make the stipulated payments, or
(b) entitles the holder of the securities to receive, from
the person or company providing the support, payment if the issuer
fails to make a stipulated payment;
"approved rating"
means, for a security, a rating at or above one of the following
rating categories issued by an approved rating organization for
the security or a rating category that replaces a category listed
below:
Approved Rating Organization
Long Term
Debt
Short Term
Debt
Preferred
Shares
CBRS Inc.
B++
A-2
P-3
Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited
BBB
R-2
Pfd-3
Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co.
BBB-
D-3
BBB-
Fitch IBCA, Inc.
BBB
F3
BBB
Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Baa
Prime-3
"baa"
Standard & Poor's Corporation
BBB
A-3
BBB
Thomson BankWatch, Inc.
BBB
TBW-3
BBB
"approved rating organization"
means each of CBRS Inc., Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited,
Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Fitch IBCA, Inc., Moody's
Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Corporation,
Thomson BankWatch, Inc., and any of their successors;
"asset-backed security"
means a security that is primarily serviced by the cash flows of a
discrete pool of mortgages, receivables or other financial assets,
either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash
within a finite time period, and any rights or other assets
designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of
proceeds to securityholders;
"associated party"
means, if used to indicate a relationship with a person or
company,
(a) a partner, other than a limited partner, of the person or
company,
(b) a trust or estate in which the person or company has a
substantial beneficial interest or for which the person or company
serves as trustee or in a similar capacity,
(c) an issuer in respect of which the person or company
beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, securities
carrying more than 10 per cent of the voting rights attached to
all outstanding securities of the issuer,
(d) a relative of the person who has the same home as that
person,
(e) an individual who has the same home as the person and who
is either married to the person or is living with the person in a
conjugal relationship outside marriage, or
(f) a relative of an individual mentioned in paragraph (e)
who has the same home as the person;
"business segment"
has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Handbook;
"cash equivalent"
means an evidence of indebtedness that has a remaining term to
maturity of 365 days or less and that is issued, or fully and
unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest, by
(a) the government of Canada or the government of a
jurisdiction,
(b) the government of the United States of America, the
government of one of the states of the United States of America,
the government of another sovereign state or a permitted
supranational agency, if, in each case, the evidence of
indebtedness has an approved rating, or
(c) a Canadian financial institution, or other entity that is
regulated as a banking institution, loan corporation, trust
company, or insurance company or credit union by the government,
or an agency of the government, of the country under whose laws
the entity is incorporated or organized or a political subdivision
of that country, if, in either case, the Canadian financial
institution or other entity has outstanding short term debt
securities that have received an approved rating from any approved
rating organization;
"cash settled derivative"
means a specified derivative, the terms of which provide for
settlement only by means of cash or cash equivalent, the amount of
which is determinable by reference to the underlying interest of
the specified derivative;
"connected issuer"
has the meaning ascribed to that term in securities legislation;
"convertible"
means, if used to describe securities, that the rights and
attributes attached to the securities include the right or option
to purchase, convert into or exchange for or otherwise acquire
equity securities of an issuer, or any other security that itself
includes the right or option to purchase, convert into or exchange
for or otherwise acquire equity securities of an issuer;
"credit supporter"
means a person or company that provides a guarantee or alternative
credit support for any of the payments to be made by an issuer of
securities as stipulated in the terms of the securities or in an
agreement governing rights of, or granting rights to, holders of
the securities;
"current AIF"
means
(a) for an issuer other than an issuer subsisting under the
laws of a foreign jurisdiction that has filed an AIF in the form
of a current annual report on Form 10-K, Form 10-KSB or on Form
20-F under the 1934 Act
(i)  during the period of 140 days following the issuer's
most recently completed financial year,
(A)  if the issuer has filed an initial AIF for its most
recently completed financial year that has been accepted for
filing under this Instrument, the initial AIF,
(B)  if the issuer has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for its most recently completed financial year, the
renewal AIF,
(C)  if the issuer has not filed an AIF for its most recently
completed financial year and has filed an initial AIF for the
financial year preceding its most recently completed financial
year that has been accepted for filing under this Instrument, the
initial AIF, or
(D)  if the issuer has not filed an AIF for its most recently
completed financial year and has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for the financial year preceding its most recently
completed financial year, the renewal AIF,
(ii)  at any time after 140 days following the issuer's most
recently completed financial year,
(A)  if the issuer has filed an initial AIF for its most
recently completed financial year that has been accepted for
filing under this Instrument, the initial AIF, or
(B)  if the issuer has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for its most recently completed financial year, the
renewal AIF, or
(iii)  an AIF of the issuer filed before this Instrument came
into force that would constitute a "Current AIF" for the purposes
of NP47 if that instrument was applicable, or
(b) for an issuer subsisting under the laws of a foreign
jurisdiction that has filed an AIF in the form of a current annual
report on Form 10-K, Form 10-KSB or on Form 20-F under the 1934
Act
(i)  during the period of 180 days following the issuer's
most recently completed financial year
(A)  if the issuer has filed an initial AIF for its most
recently completed financial year that has been accepted for
filing under this Instrument, the initial AIF,
(B)  if the issuer has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for its most recently completed financial year, the
renewal AIF,
(C)  if the issuer has not filed an AIF for its most recently
completed financial year and has filed an initial AIF for the
financial year preceding its most recently completed financial
year that has been accepted for filing under this Instrument, the
initial AIF, or
(D)  if the issuer has not filed an AIF for its most recently
completed financial year and has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for the financial year preceding its most recently
completed financial year, the renewal AIF,
(ii)  at any time after 180 days following the issuer's most
recently completed financial year,
(A)  if the issuer has filed an initial AIF for its most
recently completed financial year that has been accepted for
filing under this Instrument, the initial AIF, or
(B)  if the issuer has filed a renewal AIF under this
Instrument for its most recently completed financial year, the
renewal AIF, or
(iii)  an AIF of the issuer filed before this Instrument came
into force that would constitute a "Current AIF" for the purposes
of NP47 if that instrument was applicable
"equity securities"
means securities of an issuer that carry a residual right to
participate in the earnings of the issuer and, upon the
liquidation or winding up of the issuer, in its assets;
"executive officer"
with respect to a person or company means an individual who is
(a) a chair of the person or company,
(b) a vice-chair of the person or company,
(c) the president of the person or company,
(d) a vice-president of the person or company in charge of a
principal business unit, division or function including sales,
finance or production,
(e) an officer of the person or company or any of its
subsidiaries, who performed a policy-making function in respect of
the person or company, or
(f) any other individual who performed a policy-making
function in respect of the person or company;
"Form 51-102F1"
means Form 51-102F1
Management's Discussion and Analysis
;
"Form 51-102F2"
means Form 51-102F2
Annual Information Form
;
"44-101 regulator"
means, for an issuer filing an AIF, preliminary short form
prospectus, short form prospectus or amendment to a short form
prospectus,
(a) the regulator in the local jurisdiction, if the issuer
has not elected to use the MRRS, or
(b) the person referred to in Appendix D of National
Instrument 14-101 Definitions opposite the name of the
jurisdiction that acts as principal regulator for the review of
the document under National Policy 43-201 Mutual Reliance Review
System for Prospectuses and Annual Information Forms, together
with the regulator in each jurisdiction, if any, that has opted
out of, without having opted back into, the MRRS, if the issuer
has elected to use the MRRS;
"income from continuing operations"
means income or loss, excluding discontinued operations and
extraordinary items, before income taxes and after amortization
and write-offs of goodwill;
"initial AIF"
means an AIF, as may be revised from time to time, filed by an
issuer in the local jurisdiction, if at the time of filing the
issuer either
(a) has not previously had a current AIF in the local
jurisdiction, or
(b) previously had a current AIF in the local jurisdiction
and no longer has one;
"interim period"
means a completed three, six or nine month period in the financial
year that commenced immediately following the end of the most
recently completed financial year for which audited annual
financial statements are included in a short form prospectus;
"investee"
means an entity that the Handbook recommends that an issuer
account for by the equity method or the proportionate
consolidation method;
"issuer's GAAP"
means the accounting principles used to prepare an issuer's
financial statements, as permitted by NI 52-107;
"MD&A"
means the management's discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations of an issuer,
(a) in Form 51-102F1, or
(b) for financial years beginning before January 1, 2004,
(i)  in Form 51-102F1, or
(ii)  required to be disclosed in an AIF in respect of
financial years beginning before January 1, 2004;
"mineral project"
means any exploration, development or production activity in
respect of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic
material including base and precious metals, coal and industrial
minerals;
"MRRS"
has the meaning ascribed to that term in National Policy 43-201;
"NI 51-102"
means National Instrument 51-102
Continuous Disclosure Obligations
;
"NI 52-107"
means National Instrument 52-107 Acceptable Accounting Principles,
Auditing Standards and Reporting Currency;
"non-convertible"
means, if used to describe a security, a security that is not
convertible;
"NP47"
means National Policy Statement No. 47 Prompt Offering
Qualification System;
"participant"
means an issuer that is a party to a reorganization;
"permitted supranational agency"
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American
Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, the African Development Bank and any person or
company prescribed under paragraph (g) of the definition of
"foreign property" in subsection 206 (1) of the ITA;
"pre-acquisition period"
means the period from the first day of the current financial year
to the date of the acquisition of a business or to a day not more
than 30 days before the date of the acquisition;
"principal obligor"
means, for an asset-backed security, a person or company that is
obligated to make payments, has guaranteed payments, or has
provided alternative credit support for payments, on financial
assets that represent a third or more of the aggregate amount
owing on all of the financial assets underlying the asset-backed
security;
"probable acquisition of a business"
means a proposed acquisition of a business that has progressed to
a state where a reasonable person would believe that the
likelihood of the acquisition being completed is high;
"probable acquisition of related businesses"
means
(a) a proposed acquisition of related businesses if each
proposed acquisition has progressed to a state where a reasonable
person would believe that the likelihood of the acquisition being
completed is high, or
(b) a completed acquisition of a business and a proposed
acquisition of a business if
(i)  the proposed acquisition has progressed to a state where
a reasonable person would believe that the likelihood of the
acquisition being completed is high, and
(ii)  if
(A)  the businesses were under common control or management
prior to the date of the acquisition,
(B)  the proposed acquisition was conditional upon the
completed acquisition; or
(C)  each acquisition is contingent on a single common event;
"related credit supporter"
of an issuer means a credit supporter of the issuer that is an
affiliate of the issuer;
"renewal AIF"
means an AIF filed by an issuer in the local jurisdiction, as may
be revised from time to time, if at the time of filing the issuer
had a current AIF;
"reorganization"
means
(a) a statutory amalgamation,
(b) a statutory merger, or
(c) a statutory arrangement;
"SEDAR"
has the meaning ascribed to that term in National Instrument
13-101 System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval
(SEDAR);
"significance tests"
means the tests set out in subsection 1.2 (2) and, if applicable,
subsection 1.2 (3), used to determine if an acquisition of a
business, an acquisition of related businesses, a probable
acquisition of a business or a probable acquisition of related
businesses is a significant acquisition for purposes of this
Instrument;
"specified derivative"
means an instrument, agreement or security, the market price,
value or payment obligation of which is derived from, referenced
to, or based on an underlying interest;
"successor issuer"
means an issuer existing as a result of a reorganization, other
than, in the case where the reorganization involved a divestiture
of a portion of a participant's business, an issuer that succeeded
to or otherwise acquired the portion of the business divested;
"transition year"
means the financial year of an issuer or business in which a
change in the ending date of its financial year occurs;
"underlying interest"
means, for a specified derivative, the security, commodity,
financial instrument, currency, interest rate, foreign exchange
rate, economic indicator, index, basket, agreement, benchmark or
any other reference, interest or variable, and, if applicable, the
relationship between any of the foregoing, from, to or on which
the market price, value or any payment obligation of the specified
derivative is derived, referenced or based; and
"US GAAP"
means generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States of America that the SEC has identified as having
substantial authoritative support as supplemented by Regulation
S-X and S-B under the 1934 Act.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2004, s. 1; 603/2004, s. 1.]
Significant Acquisitions
1.2
(1)
Significant Acquisitions
— Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "significant
acquisition" refers to an acquisition of a business, an
acquisition of related businesses, a probable acquisition of a
business or a probable acquisition of related businesses that
satisfies any of the significance tests.
(2)
Required Significance Tests at Date of Acquisition
— For the purposes of this Instrument, an acquisition of a
business, an acquisition of related businesses, a probable
acquisition of a business or a probable acquisition of related
businesses is a significant acquisition, if it satisfies any of
the following three tests:
1.
The Asset Test.
The issuer's proportionate share of the consolidated assets of the
business or related businesses exceeds 20 per cent of the
consolidated assets of the issuer calculated using the audited
financial statements of each of the issuer and the business or the
related businesses for the most recently completed financial year
of the issuer ended before the date of the acquisition.
2.
The Investment Test.
The issuer's consolidated investments in and advances to the
business or the related businesses exceeds 20 per cent of the
consolidated assets of the issuer as at the last day of the most
recently completed financial year of the issuer ended before the
date of the acquisition for which audited financial statements are
included in the short form prospectus, excluding any investments
in or advances to the business or the related businesses as at
that date.
3.
The Income Test.
The issuer's proportionate share of the consolidated income from
continuing operations of the business or related businesses
exceeds 20 per cent of the consolidated income from continuing
operations of the issuer calculated using the audited financial
statements of each of the issuer and the business or related
businesses for the most recently completed financial year of each
ended before the date of the acquisition.
(3)
Optional Significance Tests Subsequent to the Date of
Acquisition
— If an acquisition of a business, an acquisition of related
businesses, a probable acquisition of a business or a probable
acquisition of related businesses is significant based on the
significance tests in subsection (2), the issuer may re-calculate
the significance at a more recent date as follows:
1.
The Asset Test.
The issuer's proportionate share of the total consolidated assets
of the business or the related businesses, as at the date of the
issuer's most recent balance sheet included in the short form
prospectus, exceeds 20 per cent of the consolidated assets of the
issuer, as at the date of the issuer's most recent balance sheet
included in the short form prospectus, without giving effect to
the acquisition.
2.
The Investment Test.
The issuer's consolidated investments in and advances to the
business or the related businesses as at the date of the
acquisition or the proposed date of the acquisition exceeds 20 per
cent of the consolidated assets of the issuer as at the date of
the issuer's most recent balance sheet included in the short form
prospectus for a period that ends before the date of the
acquisition, excluding any investments in or advances to the
business or related business as at that date.
3.
The Income Test.
The income from continuing operations calculated pursuant to the
following clause (a) exceeds 20 per cent of the income from
continuing operations calculated pursuant to the following clause
(b):
(a) The issuer's proportionate share of the consolidated income
from continuing operations of the business or the related
businesses for the later of
(i)  the most recently completed financial year of the
business or the related businesses that ended more than 90 days
before the date of the short form prospectus, or
(ii)  the 12 months ended on the last day of the most
recently completed interim period of the business or related
businesses that ended more than 60 days before the date of the
short form prospectus.
(b) The issuer's consolidated income from continuing operations
for the later of
(i)  the most recently completed financial year, without
giving effect to the acquisition, or
(ii)  the 12 months ended on the last day of the most
recently completed interim period of the issuer for which
financial statements are included in the short form prospectus,
without giving effect to the acquisition.
(4)  If an issuer re-calculates the significance of an
acquisition of a business, an acquisition of related businesses, a
probable acquisition of a business or a probable acquisition of
related businesses pursuant to subsection (3) and none of the
significance tests in that subsection is met, the acquisition is
not a significant acquisition for purposes of this Instrument.
(5)  Despite subsection (3), the significance of an
acquisition of a business, an acquisition of related businesses, a
probable acquisition of a business or a probable acquisition of
related businesses may be re-calculated only if, subsequent to the
acquisition date, the business or related businesses remained
substantially intact, were not significantly reorganized, and no
significant assets and liabilities were transferred to other
entities.
(6)  Despite subsection (2), the significance of an
acquisition of a business, an acquisition of related businesses, a
probable acquisition of a business or a probable acquisition of
related businesses may be calculated using unaudited financial
statements of the business or related businesses prepared in
accordance with GAAP if the financial statements of the business
or related businesses for the most recently completed financial
year prior to the date of the acquisition have not been audited.
(7)  In determining whether an acquisition of related
businesses or a probable acquisition of related businesses is a
significant acquisition, the related businesses shall be
considered on a combined basis.
(8)  If an issuer has accounted for an acquisition as a
reverse take-over in accordance with Item 12.7 of Form 44-101F3
for the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), the legal parent, as
that term is used in the Handbook, shall be considered the
business.
(9)
Application of Significance Tests
— Accounting Principles and Currency — For the purposes of the
significance tests in subsections (2) and (3), financial
statements of the business or related businesses must be
reconciled to the accounting principles used to prepare the
issuer's financial statements and translated into the same
reporting currency as that used in the issuer's financial
statements.
[am. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 2.]
Application of the Income Test
1.3
(1)  For the purposes of paragraph 3 of each of subsections
1.2 (2) and 1.2 (3), if any of the issuer, the business or the
related businesses has incurred a loss, the test shall be applied
using the absolute value of the loss.
(2)  For the purpose of calculating the significance of
individually insignificant unrelated multiple acquisitions,
entities reporting losses from continuing operations shall not be
aggregated with entities reporting income from continuing
operations.
(3)
Lower than Average Income of the Issuer-Required Significance
Tests
— For the purposes of paragraph 3 of subsection 1.2 (2), if the
issuer's consolidated income from continuing operations for the
most recently completed financial year referred to in subsection
1.2 (2) was
1. positive, and
2. lower by 20 per cent or more than the average consolidated
income from continuing operations of the issuer for the three most
recently completed financial years,
then, the average consolidated income for the three most recently
completed financial years may, subject to subsection (6), be
substituted in determining whether the significance test set out
in subsection 1.2 (2) is satisfied.
(4)
Lower than Average Income of the Issuer — Optional Significance
Tests Using Most Recently Completed Financial Year
— For the purposes of paragraph 3 of subsection 1.2 (3), if the
issuer's consolidated income from continuing operations for the
most recently completed financial year referred to in subclause 3
(b) (i) of subsection 1.2 (3) was
1. positive, and
2. lower by 20 per cent or more than the average consolidated
income from continuing operations of the issuer for the three most
recently completed financial years,
then, the average consolidated income for the three most recently
completed financial years may, subject to subsection (6), be
substituted in determining whether the significance test set out
in paragraph 3 of subsection 1.2 (3) is satisfied.
(5)
Lower than Average Income of the Issuer — Optional Significance
Tests Using Most Recently Completed Twelve Months
— For the purposes of paragraph 3 of subsection 1.2 (3), if the
issuer's consolidated income from continuing operations for the
most recently completed 12 month period referred to in subclause 3
(b) (ii) of subsection 1.2 (3) was
1. positive, and
2. lower by 20 per cent or more than the average consolidated
income from continuing operations of the issuer for the three
previous 12 month periods,
then, the average consolidated income for the three previous 12
month periods may, subject to subsection (6), be substituted in
determining whether the significance test set out in paragraph 3
of subsection 1.2 (3) is satisfied.
(6)
Loss
— If the issuer's consolidated income from continuing operations
for either of the two earlier financial years referred to in
subsection (3) and (4), or either of the two earlier 12 month
periods referred to in subsection (5), is a loss, the issuer's
income from continuing operations for that period is considered to
be zero for the purposes of calculating the average consolidated
income for the three previous periods.
Probable Acquisitions
1.4
(1)  The term
"probable acquisition"
refers to a probable acquisition of a business and a probable
acquisition of related businesses.
(2)  The term
"significant probable acquisition"
refers to a probable acquisition of a business or a probable
acquisition of related businesses that is a significant
acquisition under section 1.2.
Acquisitions
1.5
The term "acquisition of a business" includes an acquisition of an
interest in a business accounted for using the equity method or an
acquisition of an interest in a joint venture accounted for using
the proportionate consolidation method.
Significant Dispositions
1.6
(1)
Dispositions
— Unless the context otherwise requires, the term
"disposition"
refers to a completed or probable disposition of a business, a
business segment, or a significant portion of a business, either
by sale, abandonment or distribution to shareholders.
(2)
Required Significance Tests using Most Recently Completed
Financial Year
— For the purposes of this Instrument, a disposition of a
business, a business segment or a significant portion of a
business, is a significant disposition if it satisfies either of
the following tests:
1.
The Asset Test for Dispositions
— The issuer's proportionate share of the consolidated assets of
the business, business segment or significant portion of a
business, exceeds 20 per cent of the consolidated assets of the
issuer as at the date of the audited financial statements of the
issuer for its most recently completed financial year ended before
the date of the disposition for which financial statements are
included in the short form prospectus, without giving effect to
the disposition.
2.
The Income Test for Dispositions
— The issuer's proportionate share of the consolidated income from
continuing operations of the business, business segment or
significant portion of a business, for the most recently completed
financial year of the business, business segment or significant
portion of a business, before the date of the disposition exceeds
20 per cent of the total consolidated income from continuing
operations of the issuer for the most recently completed financial
year of the issuer before the date of the disposition for which
financial statements are included in the short form prospectus,
without giving effect to the disposition.
References to Information Included in a Document
1.7
References in this Instrument to information included in a
document refer to both information contained directly in the
document and information incorporated by reference in the
document.
References to Information To Be Included in a Document
1.8
Provisions of this Instrument that require an issuer to include
information in a document require an issuer either to insert the
information directly in the document or to incorporate the
information in the document by reference.
Incorporation by Reference
1.9
A document deemed by this Instrument to be incorporated by
reference in another document is conclusively deemed for purposes
of securities legislation to be incorporated by reference in the
other document.
Interpretation of "Short Form Prospectus"
1.10
In this Instrument, unless otherwise stated, a reference to a
short form prospectus includes a preliminary short form
prospectus.
Part 2 - Qualification to File a Prospectus in the Form of
a Short Form Prospectus
Short Form Prospectus
2.1
(1)  An issuer shall not file a prospectus in the form of
Form 44-101F3 Short Form Prospectus, unless the issuer is
qualified under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7 or 2.8 to
file a prospectus in the form of a short form prospectus.
(2)  An issuer that is qualified under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4,
2.5, 2.6, 2.7 or 2.8 to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus or that has been exempted from subsection (1)
under section 15.1 may file
(a) a preliminary prospectus, prepared and certified in the
form of Form 44-101F3 Short Form Prospectus, pertaining to a type
of securities for which the issuer is qualified under this
Instrument or permitted under any exemption to file a short form
prospectus; and
(b) a prospectus, prepared and certified in the form of Form
44-101F3 Short Form Prospectus, pertaining to a type of securities
for which the issuer is qualified under this Instrument or
permitted under any exemption to file a short form prospectus.
(3)  An issuer that filed and obtained a receipt for a
preliminary short form prospectus for a distribution of securities
under NP47
(a) is considered to have satisfied the requirement in
securities legislation to file and obtain a receipt for a
preliminary prospectus for the distribution unless, in the case
where securities legislation provides for lapsing of a preliminary
prospectus, the issuer's preliminary short form prospectus has
lapsed; and
(b) may file a prospectus, prepared and certified in the form
of Form 44-101F3 Short Form Prospectus, for the distribution if in
the case where securities legislation provides for lapsing of a
preliminary prospectus, the issuer's preliminary short form
prospectus has not lapsed.
(4)  If an issuer, before the coming into force of this
Instrument, filed and obtained a receipt under NP47 for a short
form prospectus pertaining to a distribution of securities, the
prospectus requirement does not apply to the distribution only
insofar as the prospectus requirement concerns the form and
content of a preliminary prospectus and prospectus and only for
one year from the date of the receipt issued for the short form
prospectus pertaining to the distribution.
(5)  A short form prospectus shall, at the issuer's option,
be prepared in accordance with securities legislation in effect at
either the date of issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short
form prospectus or the date of issuance of a receipt for the short
form prospectus.
Basic Qualification Criteria
2.2
An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of any of its securities in the
local jurisdiction, if all of the following criteria are
satisfied:
1. Either paragraph (a) or (b) is true:
(a) the issuer is a reporting issuer in the local
jurisdiction and the issuer
(i)  has been a reporting issuer in the local jurisdiction
for the 12 calendar months preceding the date of the filing of its
most recent AIF, or
(ii)  is, and has been for the 12 calendar months preceding
the date of the filing of its most recent AIF, a reporting issuer
under Canadian securities legislation in at least one
jurisdiction, other than the local jurisdiction, and has filed in
the local jurisdiction all continuous disclosure documents that it
was required to file during the 12 calendar months preceding the
date of the filing of its most recent AIF under Canadian
securities legislation of any jurisdiction in which it has been a
reporting issuer; or
(b) all of the following are true:
1. The issuer is not a reporting issuer in the local jurisdiction.
2. The securities regulatory authority is unable to deem the
issuer to be, or designate the issuer as, a reporting issuer.
3. The issuer is, and has been for the 12 calendar months
preceding the date of the filing of its most recent AIF, a
reporting issuer under Canadian securities legislation in at least
one jurisdiction, other than the local jurisdiction.
4. The issuer has filed in the local jurisdiction all continuous
disclosure documents that it was required to file during the 12
calendar months preceding the date of the filing of its most
recent AIF under Canadian securities legislation of any
jurisdiction in which it has been a reporting issuer.
5. The issuer has provided an undertaking to the securities
regulatory authority that it will file all continuous disclosure
documents that it would be required to file under securities
legislation if it were a reporting issuer from the time of the
filing of its most recent AIF until the issuer becomes a reporting
issuer.
2. The issuer has a current AIF.
3. The aggregate market value of the issuer's equity securities,
listed and posted for trading on an exchange in Canada, is $75 000
000 or more on a date within 60 days before the date of the filing
of the issuer's preliminary short form prospectus.
4. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of its most recently completed
financial year, the issuer has filed audited financial statements
for that year.
Alternative Qualification Criteria for Substantial Issuers
2.3
An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus for a distribution of any of its securities in the
local jurisdiction, if all of the following criteria are
satisfied:
1. The issuer is
(a) a reporting issuer in the local jurisdiction; or
(b) a reporting issuer under Canadian securities legislation
in at least one jurisdiction, other than the local jurisdiction,
and satisfies the criterion in subparagraph 5 of paragraph 1 (b)
of section 2.2.
2. The issuer has a current AIF.
3. The aggregate market value of the issuer's equity securities,
listed and posted for trading on an exchange in Canada, is $300
000 000 or more on a date within 60 days before the date of the
filing of the issuer's preliminary short form prospectus.
4. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of its most recently completed
financial year, the issuer has filed audited financial statements
for that year.
Alternative Qualification Criteria for Issuers of Approved Rating
Non-Convertible Securities
2.4
(1)  An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form
of a short form prospectus for a distribution of non-convertible
securities in the local jurisdiction, if all of the following
criteria are satisfied:
1. The issuer satisfies either of the 12 month reporting issuer
history criteria in paragraph 1 of section 2.2.
2. The issuer has a current AIF.
3. The securities to be distributed
(a) have received an approved rating on a provisional basis;
(b) are not the subject of an announcement by an approved rating
organization of which the issuer is or ought reasonably to be
aware that the approved rating given by the organization may be
down-graded to a rating category that would not be an approved
rating; and
(c) have not received a provisional or final rating lower than an
approved rating from any approved rating organization.
4. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of its most recently completed
financial year, the issuer has filed audited financial statements
for that year.
(2)  Paragraph 3 of subsection (1) does not apply to an
issuer filing a preliminary short form prospectus that is a base
shelf prospectus under National Instrument 44-102 Shelf
Distributions.
Alternative Qualification Criteria for Issuers of Guaranteed
Non-Convertible Debt Securities, Preferred Shares and Cash Settled
Derivatives
2.5
(1)  An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form
of a short form prospectus for a distribution of non-convertible
debt securities, non-convertible preferred shares or
non-convertible cash settled derivatives in the local
jurisdiction, if all of the following criteria are satisfied:
1. A person or company
(a) fully and unconditionally guarantees the payments to be made
by the issuer of securities as stipulated in the terms of the
securities or in an agreement governing the rights of holders of
the securities such that the holder of the securities is entitled
to receive payment from the guarantor within 15 days of any
failure by the issuer to make a payment as stipulated; or
(b) provides alternative credit support for the payments to be
made by the issuer of securities as stipulated in the terms of the
securities or in an agreement governing the rights of holders of
the securities, that
(i)  in the case
(A) where the securities are rated, results in the securities
receiving the same credit rating as, or a higher credit rating
than, the credit rating they would have received if payment had
been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the person or company
providing the support, or
(B) where the securities are not rated, would result, if the
securities were rated, in the securities receiving the same credit
rating as, or a higher credit rating than, the credit rating they
would have received if payment had been fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the credit supporter, and
(ii)  entitles the holder of the securities to receive
payment from the credit supporter, or enables the holder to
receive payment from the issuer, within 15 days of any failure by
the issuer to make a payment as stipulated.
2. The credit supporter
(a) satisfies
(i)  either of the 12 month reporting issuer history criteria
in paragraph 1 of section 2.2, or
(ii)  both
(A) the reporting issuer criterion in paragraph 1 of section
2.3, and
(B) the criterion that the credit supporter have equity
securities, listed and posted for trading on an exchange in
Canada, the aggregate market value of which is $300 000 000 or
more on a date within 60 days before the date of the filing of the
issuer's preliminary short form prospectus; and
(b) has a current AIF.
3. Unless the aggregate market value of the credit supporter's
equity securities listed and posted for trading on an exchange in
Canada is $75 000 000 or more on a date within 60 days before the
date of the filing of the issuer's preliminary short form
prospectus, then at the time the preliminary short form prospectus
was filed
(a) the credit supporter has outstanding non-convertible
securities that
(i)  have received an approved rating,
(ii)  have not been the subject of an announcement by an
approved rating organization of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware that the approved rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would
not be an approved rating, and
(iii)  have not received a rating lower than an approved
rating from any approved rating organization; and
(b) the securities to be issued by the issuer
(i)  have received an approved rating on a provisional basis,
(ii)  have not been the subject of an announcement by an
approved rating organization of which the issuer is or ought
reasonably to be aware that the approved rating given by the
organization may be down-graded to a rating category that would
not be an approved rating, and
(iii)  have not received a provisional or final rating lower
than an approved rating from any approved rating organization.
4. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of the most recently completed
financial year of the credit supporter, the credit supporter has
filed audited financial statements for that year.
(2)  For the purpose of paragraph 1 of subsection (1),
payments to be made by an issuer of securities as stipulated in
the terms of the securities include any amounts to be paid as
dividends in accordance with, and on the dividend payment dates
stipulated in, the provisions of the securities, whether or not
the dividends have been declared.
(3)  Subparagraph 3 (b) of subsection 2.5 (1) does not apply
to an issuer filing a preliminary short form prospectus that is a
base shelf prospectus under National Instrument 44-102 Shelf
Distributions.
Alternative Qualification Criteria for Issuers of Guaranteed
Convertible Debt Securities or Preferred Shares
2.6
(1)  An issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form
of a short form prospectus for a distribution of convertible debt
securities or convertible preferred shares in the local
jurisdiction, if all of the following criteria are satisfied:
1. The debt securities or the preferred shares are convertible
into securities of a credit supporter that
(a) fully and unconditionally guarantees the payments to be made
by the issuer of the securities as stipulated in the terms of the
securities or in an agreement governing the rights of holders of
the securities such that the holder of the securities is entitled
to receive payment from the guarantor within 15 days of any
failure by the issuer to make a payment as stipulated; or
(b) provides alternative credit support for the payments to be
made by the issuer of the securities as stipulated in the terms of
the securities or in an agreement governing the rights of holders
of the securities, that
(i)  in the case
(A) where the securities are rated, results in the securities
receiving the same credit rating as, or a higher credit rating
than, the credit rating they would have received if payment had
been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the credit supporter,
or
(B) where the securities are not rated, would result, if the
securities were rated, in the securities receiving the same credit
rating as, or a higher credit rating than, the credit rating they
would have received if payment had been fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the credit supporter, and
(ii)  entitles the holder of the securities to receive
payment from the credit supporter, or enables the holder to
receive payment from the issuer, within 15 days of any failure by
the issuer to make a payment as stipulated.
2. The credit supporter
(a) satisfies
(i)  both
(A) either of the 12 month reporting issuer history criteria
in paragraph 1 of section 2.2, and
(B) the criterion that the credit supporter have equity
securities, listed and posted for trading on an exchange in
Canada, the aggregate market value of which is $75 000 000 or more
on a date within 60 days before the date of the filing of the
issuer's preliminary short form prospectus, or
(ii)  both
(A) the reporting issuer criterion in paragraph 1 of section
2.3, and
(B) the criterion that the credit supporter have equity
securities, listed and posted for trading on an exchange in
Canada, the aggregate market value of which is $300 000 000 or
more on a date within 60 days before the date of the filing of the
issuer's preliminary short form prospectus; and
(b) has a current AIF.
3. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of the most recently completed
financial year of the credit supporter, the credit supporter has
filed audited financial statements for that year.
(2)  For the purpose of paragraph 1 of subsection (1),
payments to be made by an issuer of securities as stipulated in
the terms of the securities include any amounts to be paid as
dividends in accordance with, and on the dividend payment dates
stipulated in, the provisions of the securities, whether or not
the dividends have been declared.
Alternative Qualification Criteria for Issuers of Asset-Backed
Securities
2.7
(1)  An issuer established in connection with a distribution
of asset-backed securities is qualified to file a prospectus in
the form of a short form prospectus for a distribution of
asset-backed securities in the local jurisdiction, if all of the
following criteria are satisfied:
1. The issuer has a current AIF.
2. The asset-backed securities to be distributed
(a) have received an approved rating on a provisional basis;
(b) have not been the subject of an announcement by an approved
rating organization of which the issuer is or ought reasonably to
be aware that the approved rating given by the organization may be
down-graded to a rating category that would not be an approved
rating; and
(c) have not received a provisional or final rating lower than an
approved rating from any approved rating organization.
3. If the issuer is filing a preliminary short form prospectus
more than 90 days after the end of its most recently completed
financial year, the issuer has filed financial statements for that
year.
(2)  Paragraph 2 of subsection 2.7 (1) does not apply to an
issuer filing a preliminary short form prospectus that is a base
shelf prospectus under National Instrument 44-102 Shelf
Distributions.
Alternative Qualification Criteria Following Reorganizations
2.8
A successor issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form
of a short form prospectus for a distribution of any of its
securities in the local jurisdiction, if all of the following
criteria are satisfied:
1. The successor issuer is deemed, under section 2.10, to have, or
otherwise has, a current AIF.
2. The successor issuer is a reporting issuer under Canadian
securities legislation of any jurisdiction.
3. The aggregate market value of the successor issuer's equity
securities, listed and posted for trading on an exchange in
Canada, is $75 000 000 or more on a date within 60 days before the
date of the filing of the successor issuer's preliminary short
form prospectus.
4. The aggregate market value of the equity securities of at least
one of the participants, listed and posted for trading on an
exchange in Canada, is $75 000 000 or more on a date within 60
days before the date of the reorganization.
5. One of the participants satisfies the criterion in paragraph 4
and the 12 month reporting issuer history criterion in paragraph 1
of section 2.2.
6. If the successor issuer is filing a preliminary short form
prospectus more than 90 days after the end of its most recently
completed financial year, the successor issuer has filed audited
financial statements for that year.
Calculation of the Aggregate Market Value of an Issuer's
Securities
2.9
(1)  For the purposes of this Part,
(a) the aggregate market value of the equity securities of an
issuer on a date is the aggregate of the market value of each
class of its equity securities on the date, calculated by
multiplying
(i)  the total number of equity securities of the class
outstanding on the date, by
(ii)  the closing price on the date of the equity securities
of the class on the exchange in Canada on which that class of
equity securities is principally traded; and
(b) instalment receipts may, at the option of the issuer, be
deemed to be equity securities if
(i)  the instalment receipts are listed and posted for
trading on an exchange in Canada, and
(ii)  the outstanding equity securities, the beneficial
ownership of which is evidenced by the instalment receipts, are
not listed and posted for trading on an exchange in Canada.
(2)  For the purposes of subsection (1), in calculating the
total number of equity securities of a class outstanding, an
issuer shall exclude those equity securities of the class that are
beneficially owned, or over which control or direction is
exercised, by persons or companies that, alone or together with
their respective affiliates and associated parties, beneficially
own or exercise control or direction over more than 10 per cent of
the outstanding equity securities of the issuer.
(3)  Despite subsection (2), if a portfolio manager of a
pension fund, mutual fund or non-redeemable investment fund, alone
or together with its affiliates and associated parties, exercises
control or direction in the aggregate over more than 10 per cent
of the outstanding equity securities of an issuer, and the fund
beneficially owns or exercises control or direction over 10 per
cent or less of the issued and outstanding equity securities of
the issuer, the securities that the fund beneficially owns or
exercises control or direction over are not excluded unless the
portfolio manager is an affiliate of the issuer.
Adoption by Successor Issuer of a Participant's AIF Following a
Reorganization
2.10
A successor issuer that notifies the regulator that it has adopted
as its own AIF the AIF of a participant in the reorganization, as
a result of which the successor issuer exists, is deemed to have a
current AIF for the purposes of securities legislation, if the AIF
was a current AIF of the participant at the time of the
reorganization, until the earlier of
(a) the date the successor issuer files an AIF; and
(b) either
(i)  the date the AIF ceases to be a current AIF of the
participant, if the participant continues to exist after the
reorganization, or
(ii)  the date that is 140 days following the end of the
financial year to which the AIF relates, if the participant did
not continue to exist after the reorganization.
Part 3 - AIF
Initial AIF
3.1
(1)  An issuer filing an initial AIF under this Instrument
shall file the AIF
(a) in Form 51-102F2;
(b) in respect of financial years beginning before January 1,
2004, in Form 51-102F2 or Form 44-101F1; or
(c) in the form referred to in section 3.4.
(2)  If an issuer revises its initial AIF, the issuer shall
promptly
(a) file in all jurisdictions in which the initial AIF was
filed the revised initial AIF and a copy of the revised initial
AIF, blacklined to show changes from the initial AIF; and
(b) send a copy of the revised initial AIF to each person and
company that was sent an initial AIF.
(3)  An issuer shall file a French language version of its
initial AIF before sending the French language version of the AIF
to an investor or prospective investor.
(4)  An issuer that has prepared a French language version of
its initial AIF shall file the French language version of the
initial AIF and any supporting documents in New Brunswick
concurrently with or as soon as practicable after filing the
English language version of those documents in that Province.
[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2004, s. 2.]
Renewal AIF Filing Procedures
3.2
(1)  An issuer filing a renewal AIF under this Instrument
shall file the AIF
(a) in Form 51-102F2;
(b) in respect of financial years beginning before January 1,
2004, in Form 51-102F2 or Form 44-101F1; or
(c) in the form referred to in section 3.4.
(2)  An issuer filing a renewal AIF for a financial year in
which the issuer made a significant acquisition of a business or a
significant acquisition of related businesses, or was a party to a
reorganization that was material to the issuer, shall state in a
covering letter accompanying the renewal AIF that the acquisition
or reorganization occurred.
(3)  An issuer that intends to file a preliminary short form
prospectus within 10 days of filing its renewal AIF should notify
the 44-101 regulator of this intention at the time of filing its
renewal AIF or, if the decision is not yet made at that time, then
immediately upon making the decision.
(4)  The 44-101 regulator may decide to review a renewal AIF
at any time, in which case the 44-101 regulator shall
(a) notify the issuer that the 44-101 regulator will be
reviewing the renewal AIF;
(b) review the renewal AIF; and
(c) send the issuer upon completion of the review a notice
that the review of the renewal AIF has been completed.
(5)  Upon receipt of a notice from the 44-101 regulator that
its renewal AIF is being reviewed, an issuer shall promptly file
the renewal AIF again, in all jurisdictions in which the renewal
AIF was filed, with
(a) the following statement added in bold type to the cover
page of the renewal AIF, if the renewal AIF is in Form 51-102F2,
until the issuer is notified that the review has been completed:
This annual information form is currently under review by the
provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities of
one or more jurisdictions. Information contained in this form is
subject to change.
or
(b) the statement required under Item 1.2 of Form 44-101F1,
if the renewal AIF is in Form 44-101F1.
(6)  An issuer shall promptly notify the 44-101 regulator if
the issuer intends to file a short form prospectus after the
44-101 regulator has notified the issuer that its renewal AIF will
be reviewed and before the 44-101 regulator has notified the
issuer that the review has been completed.
(7)  If an issuer revises its renewal AIF, the issuer shall
promptly
(a) file in all jurisdictions in which the renewal AIF was
filed the revised renewal AIF and a copy of the revised renewal
AIF, blacklined to show changes from the renewal AIF; and
(b) send a copy of the revised renewal AIF to each person and
company that was sent a renewal AIF.
(8)  An issuer shall file a French language version of its
renewal AIF before sending the French language version of the AIF
to an investor or prospective investor.
(9)  An issuer that has prepared a French language version of
its renewal AIF shall file the French language version of the
renewal AIF and any supporting documents in New Brunswick
concurrently with or as soon as practicable after filing the
English language version of those documents in that Province.
[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2004, ss. 3 and 4.]
Supporting Documents
3.3
(1)  In addition to any other requirement of securities
legislation, an issuer that files an initial AIF and a renewal AIF
shall
(a) file the following:
1. Material Incorporated by Reference
— Copies of all material incorporated by reference in the initial
AIF or renewal AIF and not previously filed.
2. Mining Reports
— The technical reports required to be filed with an AIF under
National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects and not previously filed, if the issuer has a mineral
project; and
(b) deliver to the regulator the following:
1. Personal Information
— For each director and executive officer of the issuer for whom
the issuer has not previously delivered to the regulator the
following information, a statement containing that individual's
(a) full name;
(b) position with or relationship to the issuer;
(c) employer's name and address, if other than the issuer;
(d) full residential address;
(e) date and place of birth; and
(f) citizenship.
2. Authorization of Collection of Information
— An authorization in the form set out in Appendix A to the
collection of personal information.
(2)  An issuer that files an AIF under this Instrument shall
file an undertaking with the regulator to the effect that, when
the securities of the issuer are in the course of a distribution
under a preliminary short form prospectus or a short form
prospectus, the issuer will provide to any person or company, upon
request to the secretary of the issuer,
(a) one copy of the AIF of the issuer, together with one copy
of any document, or the pertinent pages of any document,
incorporated by reference in the AIF,
(b) one copy of the financial statements of the issuer for
its most recently completed financial year for which financial
statements have been filed together with the accompanying report
of the auditor and one copy of the most recent interim financial
statements of the issuer that have been filed, if any, for any
period after the end of its most recently completed financial
year,
(c) one copy of the information circular of the issuer in
respect of its most recent annual meeting of shareholders that
involved the election of directors, and
(d) one copy of any other documents that are incorporated by
reference into the preliminary short form prospectus or the short
form prospectus and are not required to be provided under
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c).
[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2004, s. 5.]
Alternative Forms of AIF
3.4
An issuer that
(a) has a class of securities registered under section 12 of
the 1934 Act or is required to file reports under section 15 (d)
of the 1934 Act, and
(b) is not registered or required to be registered as an
investment company under the
Investment Company Act
of 1940 of the United States of America,
may file an AIF in the form of an annual report or transition
report under the 1934 Act on Form 10-K, Form 10-KSB or on Form
20-F.
[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2004, s. 6.]
Part 4 - Disclosure in a Short Form Prospectus of
Financial Statements for Significant Acquisitions
Scope
4.1
This Part applies only to
(a) acquisitions completed during an issuer's three most
recently completed financial years;
(b) acquisitions completed during an issuer's current
financial year; and
(c) probable acquisitions.
Financial Statement Disclosure for Significant Acquisitions
Completed during the Issuer's Three Most Recently Completed
Financial Years
4.2
(1)  If an issuer made a significant acquisition during its
three most recently completed financial years, the issuer shall
include in its short form prospectus the following financial
statements of each business acquired:
Annual Financial Statements
1. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for at
least the periods specified in section 4.6.
Interim Financial Statements
2. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for
(a) either
(i)  the most recently completed interim period of the
acquired business that ended before the date of the acquisition
and more than 60 days before the date of the short form
prospectus; or
(ii)  the pre-acquisition period; and
(b) the comparable period in the preceding financial year of the
acquired business.
Pro Forma
Income Statement
3. A
pro forma
income statement prepared in accordance with subsection 4.5 (1) 2
(a).
4.
Pro forma
earnings per share based on the
pro forma
income statement referred to in paragraph 3.
(2)  If an issuer is required under subsection (1) to include
financial statements in a short form prospectus for more than one
business because the significant acquisition involves an
acquisition of related businesses, the financial statements
required under subsection (1) shall be presented separately for
each business, except that the issuer may present the financial
statements of the businesses on a combined basis for the periods
during which the businesses were under common control or
management.
Financial Statement Disclosure for Significant Acquisitions
Completed during the Issuer's Current Financial Year
4.3
(1)  If an issuer has made a significant acquisition during
its current financial year, the issuer shall include in its short
form prospectus the following financial statements of each
business acquired:
Annual Financial Statements
1. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for at
least the periods specified in section 4.6.
2. A balance sheet as at the date on which each of the periods
specified in section 4.6 ended, except that, if section 4.6
specifies that separate financial statements of the business are
to be included for three financial years, a balance sheet as at
the last day of the earliest of the three financial years is not
required.
Interim Financial Statements
3. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for
(a) either
(i)  the most recently completed interim period of the
acquired business that ended before the date of the acquisition
and more than 60 days before the date of the short form
prospectus; or
(ii)  the pre-acquisition period; and
(b) the comparable period in the preceding financial year of the
acquired business.
4. A balance sheet as at the date on which the interim period
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (i) or 3 (a) (ii) ended.
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
5.
Pro forma
financial statements prepared in accordance with subsection 4.5.
6.
Pro forma
earnings per share based on the
pro forma
financial statements referred to in paragraph 5.
(2)  If an issuer is required under subsection (1) to include
financial statements in a short form prospectus for more than one
business because the significant acquisition involves an
acquisition of related businesses or a probable acquisition of
related businesses, the financial statements required under
subsection (1) shall be presented separately for each business
except the issuer may present the financial statements of the
businesses on a combined basis for the periods during which the
businesses have been under common control or management.
Financial Statement Disclosure for Significant Probable
Acquisitions
4.4
(1)  If an issuer is proposing to make a significant probable
acquisition, the issuer shall include in its short form prospectus
the following financial statements of each business to be
acquired:
Annual Financial Statements
1. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for at
least the periods specified in section 4.6.
2. A balance sheet as at the date on which each of the periods
specified in section 4.6 ended, except that, if section 4.6
specifies that separate financial statements of the business are
to be included for three financial years, a balance sheet as at
the last day of the earliest of the three financial years is not
required.
Interim Financial Statements
3. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for
(a) the most recently completed interim period of the business to
be acquired that ended more than 60 days before the date of the
short form prospectus; and
(b) the comparable period in the preceding financial year.
4. A balance sheet as at the date on which the interim period
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) ended.
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
5.
Pro forma
financial statements prepared in accordance with subsection 4.5.
6.
Pro forma
earnings per share based on the
pro forma
financial statements referred to in paragraph 5.
(2)  If an issuer is required under subsection (1) to include
financial statements in a short form prospectus for more than one
business because the significant acquisition involves an
acquisition of related businesses or a probable acquisition of
related businesses, the financial statements required under
subsection (1) shall be presented separately for each business,
except the issuer may present the financial statements of the
businesses on a combined basis for periods during which the
businesses have been under common control or management.
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
4.5
(1)  If an issuer is required to include
pro forma
financial statements in the short form prospectus under sections
4.2, 4.3, 4.4 or 5.2, the issuer shall prepare
pro forma
financial statements as follows:
1.
Pro forma
balance sheet
— A
pro forma
balance sheet of the issuer shall be prepared as at the date of
the issuer's most recent balance sheet included in the short form
prospectus to give effect to, as if they had taken place as at the
date of the
pro forma
balance sheet,
(a) significant acquisitions that have been completed, but are not
reflected in the issuer's most recent balance sheet included in
the short form prospectus; and
(b) significant probable acquisitions.
2.
Pro forma
income statement
— A
pro forma
income statement of the issuer shall be prepared to give effect to
(a) significant acquisitions completed during the most recently
completed financial year of the issuer as if they had taken place
at the beginning of the most recently completed financial year of
the issuer for which audited financial statements are included in
the short form prospectus; and
(b) the acquisitions referred to in clauses (i) and (ii)
(i)  significant acquisitions completed during the issuer's
current financial year; and
(ii)  significant probable acquisitions,
for each of the financial periods referred to in the following
paragraphs:
A. the most recently completed financial year of the issuer for
which audited financial statements are included in the short form
prospectus; and
B. the most recently completed interim period of the issuer for
which financial statements are included in the short form
prospectus,
as if they had taken place at the beginning of the most recently
completed financial year of the issuer for which audited financial
statements are included in the short form prospectus.
(2)  If an issuer includes in a short form prospectus a
pro forma
financial statement prepared in accordance with subsection (1)
which gives effect to more than one significant acquisition or
significant probable acquisition, the
pro forma
financial statement shall separately identify each significant
completed or probable acquisition.
(3)  If an issuer is required to include
pro forma
financial statements in a short form prospectus, the issuer shall
include in the
pro forma
financial statements a description of the underlying assumptions
on which the
pro forma
financial statements are prepared, cross-referenced to each
related
pro forma
adjustment.
(4)  If an issuer is required under paragraph 2 of subsection
(1) to include a
pro forma
income statement in a short form prospectus for the most recently
completed financial year of the issuer and both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(a) the
pro forma
income statement is not prepared using the income statement of the
business for the pre-acquisition period, and
(b) the financial year end of a business differs from the
issuer's year end by more than 93 days,
then, despite paragraph 2 of subsection (1), for purposes of
preparing the
pro forma
income statement, the income statement of the business shall be
for a period of twelve consecutive months ending no more than 93
days from the issuer's year end.
(5)  Subject to subsection (4), if an issuer is required to
prepare the
pro forma
income statements referred to in clauses (1) 2 (b) A and (1) 2 (b)
B, and the
pro forma
income statement referred to in clause A includes results of the
business which are also included in the
pro forma
income statement referred to in clause B, there shall be disclosed
in a note to the
pro forma
financial statements the revenue, expenses, gross profit and
income from continuing operations included in the
pro forma
income statements for the overlapping period.
Reporting Periods
4.6
(1)
Exception to Requirement to Include Financial Statements
— No financial statements are required under section 4.2 to be
included in a short form prospectus if
(a) the results of the business for a complete financial year
have been reflected in the audited consolidated financial
statements of the issuer included in the short form prospectus;
and
(b) none of the significance tests would be satisfied if the
20 per cent threshold in the significance tests was changed to 100
per cent.
(2)
Acquisitions at the 100% Significance Level
— If the results of the business for a complete financial year
have been reflected in the audited consolidated financial
statements of the issuer included in the short form prospectus and
any of the significance tests would be satisfied if the 20 per
cent threshold in the significance tests was changed to 100 per
cent, separate financial statements of the business are required
for as many periods before the acquisition as may be necessary so
that when these periods are added to the periods for which the
issuer's financial statements in the short form prospectus include
the results of the business, financial statements reflecting the
results of the business, either separately or on a consolidated
basis, are included for a total of three years or each of the
completed financial years of the business, if the business has not
been in existence for three completed financial years.
(3)  Subject to subsections (1) and (2), the periods for
which the financial statements are required under paragraphs 1 and
2 of subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1) to be included in a
short form prospectus shall be determined by reference to the
significance tests as follows:
1.
Acquisitions Significant between 20% and 40%
— If none of the significance tests is satisfied if the 20 per
cent threshold is changed to 40 per cent, financial statements
shall be included for
(a) the most recently completed financial year of the business
ended more than 90 days before the date of the short form
prospectus; or
(b) if the business has not completed one financial year, the
financial period from the date of formation to a date not more
than 90 days before the date of the short form prospectus.
2.
Acquisitions Significant between 40% and 50%
— If any of the three significance tests are satisfied if the 20
per cent threshold is changed to 40 per cent, but none of the
three significance tests is satisfied if the 20 per cent threshold
is changed to 50 per cent, financial statements shall be included
for
(a) each of the three most recently completed financial years of
the business ended more than 90 days before the date of the short
form prospectus;
(b) if the business has not completed two financial years, each
completed financial year ended more than 90 days before the date
of the short form prospectus; or
(c) if the business has not completed one financial year, the
financial period from the date of formation to a date not more
than 90 days before the date of the short form prospectus.
3.
Acquisitions Significant at 50% or greater —
If any of the three significance tests are satisfied if the 20 per
cent threshold is changed to 50 per cent, financial statements
shall be included for
(a) each of the three most recently completed financial years of
the business ended more than 90 days before the date of the short
form prospectus;
(b) if the business has not completed three financial years, each
completed financial year ended more than 90 days before the date
of the short form prospectus; or
(c) if the business has not completed one financial year, the
financial period from the date of formation to a date not more
than 90 days before the date of the short form prospectus.
Additional Financial Statements or Financial Information of the
Business Filed or Released
4.7
(1)  An issuer shall include in its short form prospectus
annual and interim financial statements of a business for a
financial period that ended before the date of the acquisition and
is more recent than the periods for which financial statements are
required under subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1) if, before
the short form prospectus is filed, the financial statements for
the more recent period have been filed.
(2)  If, before the short form prospectus is filed, financial
information of a business for a period more recent than for the
period for which financial statements are required under
subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1), is publicly disseminated
by news release or otherwise by or on behalf of the issuer, the
issuer shall include in the short form prospectus the content of
the news release or public communication.
Exceptions to Disclosure Requirements for Significant Acquisitions
if More Recent Financial Statements Included
4.8
(1)  Despite subsection 4.6 (3), an issuer may omit separate
financial statements of a business for the earliest financial year
otherwise required under subsection 4.6 (3), if audited financial
statements of the business are included in the short form
prospectus for a financial year ended 90 days or less before the
date of the short form prospectus.
(2)  Despite subsection 4.6 (3), an issuer may omit separate
financial statements of a business for the earliest financial year
otherwise required under subsection 4.6 (3) if
(a) separate financial statements of a business are required
under subsection 4.6 (3) for more than one financial year;
(b) audited financial statements are included in the short
form prospectus for a period of at least nine months in the
financial year after the most recent year for which separate
financial statements are required under subsection 4.6 (3);
(c) the issuer has not relied upon the exception in section
4.9; and
(d) the business is not seasonal.
(3)  Despite subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1), an
issuer may omit from a short form prospectus the financial
statements of a business for the interim period otherwise required
under subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1) if annual financial
statements of the business are included in the short form
prospectus for a financial year ended 90 days or less before the
date of the short form prospectus.
Exception to Disclosure Requirements for Significant Acquisitions
if Financial Year End Changed
4.9
Despite section 4.6, if a business changed its financial year end
once during any of its financial years for which financial
statements are required to be included in the short form
prospectus, the issuer may include financial statements for the
transition year in satisfaction of the financial statements for
one of the years under section 4.6 provided that the transition
year is at least nine months.
Exception to Disclosure Requirements for Significant Acquisitions
Accounted for Using the Equity Method
4.10
Despite subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1), an issuer may
omit from its short form prospectus the financial statements of a
business and the
pro forma
financial statements of an issuer otherwise required under
subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1) if
(a) the acquisition is, or will be, an investment accounted
for using the equity method, as that term is defined in the
Handbook;
(b) the short form prospectus includes disclosure for the
periods for which financial statements are otherwise required
under subsections 4.2 (1), 4.3 (1) and 4.4 (1) that
(i)  summarizes the assets, liabilities and results of
operations of the business, and
(ii)  describes the issuer's proportionate interest in the
business and any contingent issuance of securities by the business
that might significantly affect the issuer's share of earnings;
(c) the financial information provided under paragraph (b)
for any completed financial year
(i)  has been derived from audited financial statements of
the business, or
(ii)  has been audited;
(d) the short form prospectus
(i)  identifies the financial statements referred to in
paragraph (c) (i) from which the disclosure provided under
paragraph (b) has been derived; or
(ii)  discloses that the financial information provided under
paragraph (b), if not derived from audited financial statements,
has been audited; and
(iii)  discloses that the audit opinion with respect to the
financial statements referred to in (i), or the financial
information referred to in (ii), was issued without a reservation
of opinion.
Additional Disclosure for Significant Acquisitions after Financial
Year End Accounted for Using the Purchase Method
4.11
(1)  An issuer shall include in a subsequent event note to
its financial statements included in a short form prospectus or
elsewhere in a short form prospectus the information referred to
in subsection (2), if
(a) the issuer has made a significant acquisition since its
most recent financial year end; and
(b) the purchase method is used to account for the
acquisition.
(2)  The information required under subsection (1) is
(a) if
(i)  determined by the date of the subsequent event note,
details of the purchase equation, namely the allocation of the
purchase price to the underlying assets being acquired, the
underlying liabilities being assumed and any resulting goodwill,
or
(ii)  not determined by the date of the subsequent event
note, the issuer's reasonable estimate of the allocation; and
(b) the terms and status of the acquisition.
Audit Requirement for Financial Statements of a Business
4.12
Financial statements of a business included in a short form
prospectus under this Part, other than
pro forma
financial statements, must be audited.
[am. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 3.]
Exception to Audit Requirement for Interim Financial Statements of
a Business
4.13
Despite section 4.12, interim financial statements of a business
included in a short form prospectus under this Part do not have to
be audited.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 4.]
Exception to Audit Requirement for Recent Financial Statements of
a Business
4.14
Despite section 4.12, an issuer may omit from its short form
prospectus an audit report for the annual financial statements
referred to in subsection 4.8 (3) if the financial statements have
not been audited.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 5.]
Exception to Audit Requirement for Financial Statements of a
Business Included in a Previous Prospectus without an
Audit Opinion
4.15
Despite section 4.12, an issuer may omit from its short form
prospectus an auditor's report for the annual financial statements
of a business included in the short form prospectus, other than
for the most recently completed financial year of the business for
which financial statements are included in the short form
prospectus, if
(a) those financial statements were previously included in a
short form prospectus of the issuer without an audit report as
permitted by this Instrument or pursuant to an exemption granted
under this Instrument; and
(b) the financial statements have not been audited.
[am. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 6.]
Compilation Report for
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
4.16
The
pro forma
financial statements included in a short form prospectus under
this Part shall be accompanied by a compilation report signed by
the auditor and prepared in accordance with the Handbook.
Part 5 - Financial Statement Disclosure for Multiple
Acquisitions That Are Not Otherwise Significant or Related
Scope
5.1
This Part applies only to an issuer that
(a) has acquired two or more businesses during its most
recently completed financial year;
(b) has acquired two or more business during its current
financial year;
(c) is proposing to make two or more probable acquisitions of
a business; or
(d) has acquired one or more businesses since the beginning
of its current financial year and is proposing to make one or more
probable acquisitions of a business,
excluding, in each case, acquisitions that individually meet the
significance tests.
Historical Financial Statement Disclosure
5.2
(1)
Application of the Significance Tests
— An issuer shall include in a short form prospectus separate
financial statements of each business required under subsection
(2) for the periods referred to in subsection (3) if any of the
significance tests would be satisfied if
(a) the 20 per cent threshold in the significance tests was
changed to 50 per cent;
(b) the total consolidated assets of the businesses referred
to in section 5.1 were considered on a combined basis;
(c) the issuer's consolidated investments in and advances to
the businesses referred to in section 5.1 were considered on a
combined basis; and
(d) the consolidated income from continuing operations of the
businesses referred to in section 5.1 for the most recently
completed financial year of each business ended prior to the
acquisition date of each business were considered on a combined
basis.
(2)
Significant Businesses for Reporting Purposes
— An issuer shall include in a short form prospectus the financial
statements for a majority of the businesses that satisfy the
asset, investment or income test at the highest percentage and
which on a combined basis, represent a majority of
(a) the total consolidated assets of all of the businesses
referred to in section 5.1;
(b) the issuer's consolidated investments in and advances to
all of the businesses referred to in section 5.1; or
(c) the consolidated income from continuing operations of all
of the businesses referred to in section 5.1.
(3)  An issuer shall include the following financial
statements for each business required under subsection (2):
Annual Financial Statements
1. Statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for
(a) the most recently completed financial year of the business
before the date of the acquisition, if the acquisition was
completed more than 90 days before the date of the short form
prospectus;
(b) the most recently completed financial year of the business
ended more than 90 days before the date of the short form
prospectus, if the acquisition either has not been completed at
the date of the short form prospectus or was completed 90 days or
less before the date of the short form prospectus; or
(c) if a business has not completed one financial year, the
financial period from the date of formation to a date not more
than 90 days before the date of the short form prospectus.
2. A balance sheet as at the date on which the periods referred to
in paragraph 1 ended.
Interim Financial Statements
3. Statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for
(a) the most recently completed interim period of the business
ended before the date of the acquisition or the proposed date of
the acquisition and more than 60 days before the date of the short
form prospectus; or
(b) the pre-acquisition period.
4. A balance sheet as at the date on which the period referred to
in paragraph 3 ended.
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
5.
Pro forma
financial statements prepared in accordance with section 4.5.
6.
Pro forma
earnings per share based on the financial statement referred to in
paragraph 5.
(4)  Despite subsection (3), if the business was acquired
before the date of the most recent audited balance sheet of the
issuer included in the short form prospectus, the issuer may omit
from the short form prospectus the balance sheets of the business
referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4.
Additional Financial Statements or Financial Information of the
Business Filed or Released
5.3
(1)  An issuer shall include in its short form prospectus
annual and interim financial statements of a business for a
financial period that ended before the date of the acquisition and
is more recent than the periods for which financial statements are
required under section 5.2 if, before the short form prospectus is
filed, the financial statements for the more recent period have
been filed.
(2)  If, before the short form prospectus is filed, financial
information of a business for a period more recent than the period
for which financial statements are required under section 5.2 is
publicly disseminated by news release or otherwise by, or on
behalf of, the issuer, the issuer shall include in the short form
prospectus the content of the news release or public
communication.
Exceptions to Disclosure Requirements for Multiple Acquisitions if
More Recent Financial Statements Included
5.4
(1)  Despite section 5.2, an issuer may omit from a short
form prospectus, the financial statements of a business for the
financial year otherwise required under subsection 5.2 (3) if
audited financial statements of the business are included in the
short form prospectus for a financial year ended 90 days or less
before the date of the short form prospectus.
(2)  Despite section 5.2, an issuer may omit from a short
form prospectus the financial statements of a business for the
interim period otherwise required under subsection 5.2 (3) if
annual financial statements of the business are included in the
short form prospectus for a financial year ended 90 days or less
before the date of the short form prospectus.
Exception to Disclosure Requirements for Multiple Acquisitions if
Financial Year End Changed
5.5
Despite section 5.2, if a business changed its financial year end
during the year for which financial statements are required to be
included in the short form prospectus, the issuer may include
financial statements for the transition year in satisfaction of
the financial statements for the year under paragraphs 1 (a) and 1
(b) of subsection 5.2 (3) provided that the transition year is at
least nine months.
Audit Requirement for Financial Statements of a Business
5.6
Financial statements of a business included in a short form
prospectus under this Part, other than
pro forma
financial statements, must be audited.
[am. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 7.]
Exception to Audit Requirement for Interim Financial Statements of
a Business
5.7
Despite section 5.6, interim financial statements of a business
included in a short form prospectus under this Part do not have to
be audited.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 8.]
Exception to Audit Requirement for Recent Financial Statements of
a Business
5.8
Despite section 5.6, an issuer may omit from its short form
prospectus an audit report for the annual financial statements
referred to in subsection 5.3 (2) if the financial statements have
not been audited.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 9.]
Compilation Report for
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
5.9
The
pro forma
financial statements included in a short form prospectus under
this Part shall be accompanied by a compilation report signed by
the auditor and prepared in accordance with the Handbook.
Part 6 -
Pro Forma
Financial Statement Disclosure for Significant Dispositions
Scope
6.1
This Part applies only to
(a) significant dispositions completed during an issuer's
most recently completed financial year; and
(b) significant dispositions completed during an issuer's
current financial year,
but not to significant dispositions of business segments.
Pro Forma
Financial Statements
6.2
If an issuer has made a significant disposition referred to in
clause (a) or (b) of section 6.1, the issuer shall include in its
short form prospectus the following
pro forma
financial statements:
(1)
Pro Forma
Balance Sheet
— A pro forma balance sheet of the issuer prepared as at the date
of the issuer's most recent balance sheet included in the short
form prospectus to give effect to, as if they had taken place as
at the date of the pro forma balance sheet, significant
dispositions that have been completed, but are not reflected in
the issuer's most recent balance sheet included in the short form
prospectus.
(2)
Pro Forma
Income Statement
— Pro forma income statements of the issuer prepared to give
effect to significant dispositions completed during
(a) the most recently completed financial year of the issuer
as if they had taken place at the beginning of the most recently
completed financial year of the issuer for which audited financial
statements are included in the short form prospectus; and
(b) the issuer's current financial year for each of the
financial periods referred to in clause (i) and (ii)
(i)  the most recently completed financial year of the issuer
for which audited financial statements are included in the short
form prospectus; and
(ii)  the most recently completed interim period of the
issuer for which financial statements are included in the short
form prospectus,
as if they had taken place at the beginning of the most recently
completed financial year of the issuer for which audited financial
statements are included in the short form prospectus.
(3)  If an issuer includes in a short form prospectus a
pro forma
financial statement prepared in accordance with subsection (2)
which gives effect to more than one significant disposition, the
pro forma
financial statement shall separately identify each significant
disposition.
(4)  If an issuer is required under this Part to include
pro forma
financial statements in a short form prospectus, the issuer shall
include in the
pro forma
financial statements a description of the underlying assumptions
on which the
pro forma
financial statements are prepared, cross-referred to each related
pro forma
adjustment.
(5)
Pro Forma
Earnings per Share
— If an issuer is required under this Part to include in a short
form prospectus
pro forma
financial statements, the short form prospectus shall include
pro forma
earnings per share based on the
pro forma
financial statements referred to in this Part.
(6)
Presentation of
Pro Forma
Financial Statements for Significant Dispositions
— Despite subsection (2), if an issuer is required to include in
its short form prospectus
pro forma
financial statements prepared under section 4.5 and subsection (2)
of this Part, the issuer shall prepare one set of
pro forma
financial statements which give effect to the significant
acquisitions referred to in section 4.5 and the significant
dispositions referred to in subsection 6.2 (2).
Part 7 - Audit Requirement For Financial Statements of an
Issuer
Audit Requirement
7.1
The financial statements of an issuer included in a short form
prospectus must be audited.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 11.]
Repealed
7.2
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 12.]
Exception to Audit Requirement
7.3
Despite section 7.1, the following financial statements do not
have to be audited:
1. Comparative interim financial statements required to be
incorporated by reference under paragraph (1) 3 of Item 12.1 or
paragraph 2 of 12.2 of Form 44-101F3.
2. The comparative annual financial statements of the issuer for
the most recently completed financial year if
(a) the financial statements are required to be incorporated
by reference in a short form prospectus solely by reason of
paragraph (1) 5 of Item 12.1 of Form 44-101F3;
(b) the auditor of the issuer has not issued an audit report
on the financial statements; and
(c) comparative financial statements for the year preceding
the most recently completed financial year are audited and are
included in the short form prospectus.
3. The comparative interim financial statements of a credit
supporter required to be incorporated by reference under Item 13.2
of Form 44-101F3.
[en. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 13.]
Repealed
7.4-7.5
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 14.]
Part 8 - Audit Committee Review of Financial Statements
Included in a Short Form Prospectus
Audit Committee Review of Financial Statements Included in a Short
Form Prospectus
8.1
An issuer shall not file a short form prospectus unless each
financial statement of a person or company included in the short
form prospectus has been reviewed by the audit committee of the
board of directors of the person or company, if the person or
company has, or is required to have, an audit committee, and
approved by the board of directors.
Part 9 - Deemed Incorporation by Reference
Deemed Incorporation by Reference of Filed Documents
9.1
If an issuer does not incorporate by reference in its short form
prospectus a document required to be incorporated by reference
under Item 12.1 of Form 44-101F3, the document is deemed for
purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated by reference
in the issuer's short form prospectus as of the date of the short
form prospectus to the extent not otherwise modified or superseded
by a statement contained in the short form prospectus or in any
other subsequently filed document that also is, or is deemed to
be, incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus.
Deemed Incorporation by Reference of Subsequently Filed Documents
9.2
If an issuer does not incorporate by reference in its short form
prospectus a document required to be incorporated by reference
under Item 12.2 of Form 44-101F3, the document is deemed for
purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated by reference
in the issuer's short form prospectus as of the date the issuer
filed the document to the extent not otherwise modified or
superseded by a statement contained in the short form prospectus
or in any other subsequently filed document that also is, or is
deemed to be, incorporated by reference in the short form
prospectus.
Part 10 - Filing Requirements for a Short Form Prospectus
Interpretation of "Prospectus"
10.1
In this Part, a reference to a short form prospectus does not
include a preliminary short form prospectus.
Required Documents for Filing a Preliminary Short Form Prospectus
10.2
An issuer that files a preliminary short form prospectus shall
(a) file the following with the preliminary short form
prospectus:
1. Signed Copy —
A signed copy of the preliminary short form prospectus.
2. Qualification Certificate —
A certificate executed on behalf of the issuer by one of its
executive officers certifying that all of the criteria on which
the issuer is relying in order to be qualified to file a
prospectus in the form of a short form prospectus have been
satisfied.
3. Material Incorporated by Reference —
Copies of all material incorporated by reference in the
preliminary short form prospectus and not previously filed.
4. Mining Reports —
If the issuer has a mineral project, the technical reports
required to be filed with a preliminary short form prospectus
under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for
Mineral Projects if that National Instrument is in force and until
that National Instrument is in force any technical report or
certificate requested to be filed by the regulator.
5. Oil and Gas Reports
— Any technical report or certificate relating to oil and gas
properties prepared in accordance with National Policy Statement
No. 2-B Guide for Engineers and Geologists Submitting Oil and Gas
Reports to Canadian Provincial Securities Administrators that the
regulator requests be filed and that was not previously filed, if
the preliminary short form prospectus is filed on or before June
30, 2005, the issuer is engaged in oil and gas activities (as
defined in National Instrument 51-101
Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities
) and:
(i)  the issuer has not filed and is not required to have
filed (alone or in the preliminary short form prospectus or as
part of another filed document) the statement referred to in Item
1 of section 2.1 of National Instrument 51-101;
(ii)  the preliminary short form prospectus does not include
and is not required to include audited financial statements for a
financial year ended on or after December 31, 2003;
(iii)  if the preliminary short form prospectus is filed on
or before March 30, 2004 for an initial public offering of
securities, it does not include financial statements for a
financial year or interim period that ends on or after December
31, 2003; and
(iv)  if the preliminary short form prospectus is filed after
December 31, 2003 and during the issuer's first financial year, it
does not include financial statements for an interim period that
ends on or after December 31, 2003.
(b) deliver to the regulator, concurrently with the filing of
the preliminary short form prospectus, the following:
1. Personal Information —
For each director and executive officer of an issuer, each
promoter of the issuer or, if the promoter is not an individual,
each director and executive officer of the promoter, for whom the
issuer has not previously delivered the following information, a
statement containing that individual's
(i)  full name;
(ii)  position with or relationship to the issuer;
(iii)  employer's name and address, if other than the issuer;
(iv)  full residential address;
(v)  date and place of birth; and
(vi)  citizenship.
2. Authorization to Collect Information —
An authorization in the form set out in Appendix A to the
collection of personal information.
3. Calculation of Earnings Coverage —
If the preliminary short form prospectus is filed for a proposed
distribution of debt securities having a term to maturity in
excess of one year or for a proposed distribution of preferred
shares, a letter setting out the calculation of the earnings
coverage.
4. Material Contracts —
Copies of all material contracts to which the issuer is a party
that have not previously been filed.
5. Reports and Valuations —
A copy of each report or valuation referred to in the preliminary
short form prospectus for which a consent is required to be filed
under section 10.4 and that has not previously been filed, other
than a technical report that
(i)  deals with a mineral project or oil and gas operations;
and
(ii)  is not otherwise required to be filed under paragraphs
4 and 5 of clause 10.2 (a).
6. Auditor's Comfort Letter Regarding Audited Financial
Statements
— A signed letter to the regulator from the auditor of the issuer
or of the business, as applicable, prepared in accordance with the
form suggested for this circumstance by the Handbook, if a
financial statement of an issuer or a business included in a
preliminary short form prospectus is accompanied by an unsigned
audit report.
7.
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 15 (b).]
[am. B.C. Regs. 342/2003, Sch. C, s. (a); 603/2004, s. 15.]
Required Documents for Filing a Short Form Prospectus
10.3
An issuer that files a short form prospectus shall
(a) file the following with the short form prospectus:
1. Signed Copy —
A signed copy of the short form prospectus.
2. Material Incorporated by Reference —
Copies of all material incorporated by reference in the short form
prospectus and not previously filed.
3. Issuer's Submission to Jurisdiction —
A submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service
of process of the issuer in the form set out in Appendix B, if an
issuer is incorporated or organized in a foreign jurisdiction and
does not have an office in Canada.
4. Non-Issuer's Submission to Jurisdiction —
A submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service
of process of the selling securityholder, promoter or credit
supporter, as applicable, in the form set out in Appendix C, if a
selling securityholder, promoter or credit supporter of an issuer
is incorporated or organized under a foreign jurisdiction and does
not have an office in Canada or is an individual who resides
outside of Canada.
5. Expert's Consent —
The consents required to be filed under section 10.4.
6. Credit Supporter's Consent —
The written consent of the credit supporter to the inclusion of
its financial statements in the short form prospectus, if
financial statements of a credit supporter are required under Item
13.2 of Form 44-101F3 to be included in a short form prospectus
and a certificate of the credit supporter is not required under
Item 20.3 of Form 44-101F3 to be included in the short form
prospectus.
7. Material Contracts —
Copies of all material contracts to which the issuer is a party
that have not previously been filed.
8. Other Mining Reports —
If the issuer has a mineral project, any technical report,
certificate or consent required to be filed with a short form
prospectus under National Instrument 43-101, if that National
Instrument is in force and until that National Instrument is in
force, any technical report or certificate requested to be filed
by a regulator and not previously filed.
9. Other Oil and Gas Reports
— Any technical report or certificate relating to oil and gas
properties prepared in accordance with National Policy Statement
No. 2-B that the regulator requests be filed and that was not
previously filed, if the short form prospectus is filed on or
before June 30, 2005, the issuer is engaged in oil and gas
activities (as defined in National Instrument 51-101
Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities
) and:
(i)  the issuer has not filed and is not required to have
filed (alone or in the short form prospectus or as part of another
filed document) the statement referred to in Item 1 of section 2.1
of National Instrument 51-101;
(ii)  the short form prospectus does not include and is not
required to include audited financial statements for a financial
year ended on or after December 31, 2003;
(iii)  if the short form prospectus is filed on or before
March 30, 2004 for an initial public offering of securities, it
does not include financial statements for a financial year or
interim period that ends on or after December 31, 2003; and
(iv)  if the short form prospectus is filed after December
31, 2003 and during the issuer's first financial year, it does not
include financial statements for an interim period that ends on or
after December 31, 2003.
10. Other Reports and Valuations
— A copy of each report or valuation referred to in the short form
prospectus, for which a consent is required to be filed under
section 10.3 and that has not previously been delivered, other
than a technical report that
(i)  deals with a mineral project or oil and gas activities
of the issuer; and
(ii)  is not otherwise required to be filed under paragraph 8
or 9; and
(b) deliver to the regulators, no later than the filing of
the short form prospectus,
1. Auditor's Comfort Letter Regarding Unaudited Financial
Statements —
(i)  a comfort letter to the regulators from the auditor of
the issuer or the business, as applicable, prepared in accordance
with the relevant standards in the Handbook, if an unaudited
financial statement of an issuer or a business is included in a
short form prospectus;
(ii)  a comfort letter to the regulators from the auditor of
the business, prepared in accordance with the relevant standards
in the Handbook, if the prospectus includes unaudited financial
information of a business that has been derived from financial
statements of a business that are not included in the short form
prospectus;
(iii)  a comfort letter to the regulators from the auditor of
the business, prepared in accordance with the relevant standards
in the Handbook, if a
pro forma
income statement of the issuer included in the short form
prospectus includes results of the business that have been
prepared in accordance with subsection 4.5 (4);
(iv)  a comfort letter to the regulators from the auditor of
the issuer, prepared in accordance with the relevant standards of
the Handbook, if a
pro forma
financial statement of the issuer included in the short form
prospectus reflects the results of a significant disposition in
accordance with Part 6 of this Instrument.
2. Blacklined Prospectus —
A copy of the short form prospectus, blacklined to show changes
from the preliminary short form prospectus.
[am. B.C. Reg. 342/2003, Sch. C, ss. (b) and (c).]
Consent of Experts
10.4
(1)  If any solicitor, auditor, accountant, engineer or
appraiser, or any other person or company whose profession gives
authority to a statement made by that person or company, is named
in a short form prospectus or an amendment to a short form
prospectus, either directly or in a document incorporated by
reference
(a) as having prepared or certified any part of the short
form prospectus or the amendment,
(b) as having opined on financial statements from which
selected information included in the short form prospectus has
been derived and which audit opinion is referred to in the short
form prospectus either directly or in a document incorporated by
reference, or
(c) as having prepared or certified a report or valuation
referred to in the short form prospectus or the amendment, either
directly or in a document incorporated by reference,
the issuer shall file no later than the time the short form
prospectus or the amendment is filed, the written consent of the
person or company to being named and to that use of the report or
valuation.
(2)  The consent referred to in subsection (1) shall
(a) refer to the report, valuation, statement or opinion
stating the date of the report, valuation, statement or opinion,
and
(b) contain a statement that the person or company referred
to in subsection (1)
(i)  has read the short form prospectus, and
(ii)  has no reason to believe that there are any
misrepresentations in the information contained in it that are
(A)  derived from the report, valuation, statement or
opinion, or
(B)  within the knowledge of the person or company as a
result of the services performed by the person or company in
connection with the report, financial statements, valuation,
statement or opinion.
(3)  In addition to any other requirement of this section,
the consent of an auditor or accountant shall also state
(a) the dates of the financial statements on which the report
of the person or company is made, and
(b) that the person or company has no reason to believe that
there are any misrepresentations in the information contained in
the short form prospectus that are
(i)  derived from the financial statements on which the
person or company has reported, or
(ii)  within the knowledge of the person or company as a
result of the audit of the financial statements.
(4)  Subsection (1) does not apply to an approved rating
organization that issues a rating to the securities being
distributed under the preliminary short form prospectus or short
form prospectus.
Filing of French Language Version
10.5
(1)  Except when the prospectus is filed in Québec, an issuer
shall file a French language version of a preliminary short form
prospectus, short form prospectus, any amendment to a preliminary
short form prospectus or short form prospectus before sending the
French language version of a preliminary short form prospectus, a
short form prospectus or an amendment to an investor or
prospective investor.
(2)  An issuer that has prepared a French language version of
a preliminary short form prospectus, short form prospectus,
amendment to a preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus shall file the French language version of the document
in New Brunswick concurrently with or as soon as practicable after
filing the English language version of the document in that
Province.
Prohibition on Filing
10.6
An issuer shall not file a preliminary short form prospectus or a
short form prospectus if the issuer is in default in filing or
delivering to the regulator a document required to be filed or
delivered under securities legislation.
Material Contracts
10.7
An issuer shall make available all material contracts referred to
in a short form prospectus for inspection at a reasonable time and
place in the local jurisdiction, without charge, during the
distribution of the securities being offered under the short form
prospectus.
Part 11 - Amendments to a Short Form Prospectus
Form of Amendment
11.1
(1)  An amendment to a preliminary short form prospectus or a
short form prospectus shall consist of either an amendment that
does not fully restate the text of the preliminary short form
prospectus or short form prospectus or an amended and restated
preliminary short form prospectus or short form prospectus.
(2)  An amendment to a preliminary short form prospectus or a
short form prospectus shall contain the certificates required by
securities legislation and in the case of an amendment that does
not restate the text of the preliminary short form prospectus or
short form prospectus, shall be numbered and dated as follows:
"Amendment No. [insert amendment number] dated [insert date of
amendment] to [Preliminary] Short Form Prospectus dated [insert
date of preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus]."
Required Documents for Filing an Amendment
11.2
An issuer that files an amendment to a preliminary short form
prospectus or short form prospectus shall
(a) file a signed copy of the amendment;
(b) deliver to the regulator a copy of the preliminary short
form prospectus or short form prospectus blacklined to show the
changes made by the amendment, if the amendment is also a
restatement of the preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus;
(c) file or deliver any supporting documents required under
this Instrument or other provisions of securities legislation to
be filed or delivered with a preliminary short form prospectus or
a short form prospectus, as the case may be, unless the documents
originally filed or delivered with the preliminary short form
prospectus or short form prospectus as the case may be, are
correct as of the date the amendment is filed; and
(d) file any consent letter required under this Instrument to
be filed with a preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus, as the case may be.
Auditor's Letter
11.3
If an amendment to a preliminary short form prospectus or short
form prospectus materially affects, or relates to, an auditor's
comfort letter filed under section 10.2 or 10.3 refers, the issuer
shall file with the amendment a new auditor's comfort letter.
Forwarding Amendments
11.4
An amendment to a preliminary short form prospectus shall be
forwarded to each recipient of the preliminary short form
prospectus according to the record of recipients to be maintained
under securities legislation.
Amendment to Preliminary Short Form Prospectus
11.5
The regulator shall issue a receipt for an amendment to a
preliminary short form prospectus as soon as reasonably possible
after the amendment is filed.
Amendment to Short Form Prospectus
11.6
(1)  If, after a receipt is issued for a short form
prospectus but prior to the completion of the distribution under
such short form prospectus, securities in addition to the
securities previously disclosed in the prospectus are to be
distributed, the person or company making the distribution must
file an amendment to the short form prospectus disclosing the
additional securities, as soon as practical, and in any event no
later than 10 days after the decision to increase the number of
securities offered is made.
(2)  Except as required by securities legislation, the
regulator shall issue a receipt for an amendment to a short form
prospectus required to be filed under this section or under
securities legislation unless the regulator considers that it is
not in the public interest to do so.
(3)  The regulator shall not refuse to issue a receipt under
subsection (2) without giving the person or company who filed the
short form prospectus an opportunity to be heard.
(4)  Subject to subsection (5), a distribution or an
additional distribution must not proceed until a receipt for an
amendment to a short form prospectus that is required to be filed
is issued by the regulator.
(5)  Subsection (4) does not apply to amendments to short
form prospectuses of mutual funds.
Part 12 - Non-fixed Price Offerings and Reduction of
Offering Price under Short Form Prospectus
Non-fixed Price Offerings and Reduction of Offering Price under
Short Form Prospectus
12.1
(1)  Every security distributed under a short form prospectus
shall be distributed at a fixed price.
(2)  Despite subsection (1), securities for which the issuer
is qualified under Part 2 to file a prospectus in the form of a
short form prospectus may be distributed for cash at non-fixed
prices under a short form prospectus if, at the time of the filing
of the preliminary short form prospectus, the securities have
received a rating, on a provisional or final basis, from at least
one approved rating organization.
(3)  Despite subsection (1), if securities are distributed
for cash under a short form prospectus, the price of the
securities may be decreased from the initial offering price
disclosed in the short form prospectus and, after such a decrease,
changed from time to time to an amount not greater than the
initial offering price, without filing an amendment to the short
form prospectus to reflect the change, if
(a) the securities are distributed through one or more
underwriters that have agreed to purchase all of the securities at
a specified price;
(b) the proceeds to be received by the issuer or selling
securityholders or by the issuer and selling securityholders are
disclosed in the short form prospectus as being fixed; and
(c) the underwriters have made a reasonable effort to sell
all of the securities distributed under the short form prospectus
at the initial offering price disclosed in the short form
prospectus.
(4)  Despite subsections (2) and (3), the price at which
securities may be acquired on exercise of rights shall be fixed.
Part 13 - Circulars
Use of Short Form Prospectus Disclosure in Securities Exchange
Take-Over Bid Circular and Securities Exchange Issuer Bid Circular
13.1
(1)  An issuer that makes a take-over bid or an issuer bid
that includes consideration consisting, in whole or in part, of
the issuer's securities satisfies the requirement in securities
legislation to include, in a securities exchange take-over bid
circular or a securities exchange issuer bid circular, the
information prescribed by the form of prospectus appropriate for
the issuer by including, in the securities exchange take-over bid
circular or the securities exchange issuer bid circular, the
information required under this Instrument to be included in a
short form prospectus, if the issuer's securities offered as
consideration are of a type for which the issuer is qualified
under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 or 2.8 to file a prospectus in the
form of a short form prospectus.
(2)  In determining, for the purpose of subsection (1),
whether an issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of
a short form prospectus under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 or 2.8,
references in those sections to the time of the filing of a
preliminary short form prospectus shall be read as references to
the time of the filing of the securities exchange take-over bid
circular or securities exchange issuer bid circular.
Use of Short Form Prospectus Disclosure in Information Circular
13.2
(1)  An issuer, that sends an information circular to
securityholders disclosing information on a proposed
reorganization that involves the issuer distributing its
securities, satisfies the requirement in securities legislation to
include in an information circular the information prescribed by
the form of prospectus appropriate for the issuer by including in
the information circular, the information required under this
Instrument to be included in a short form prospectus, if the
issuer's securities to be distributed in connection with the
reorganization are of a type for which the issuer is qualified
under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 or 2.8 to file a prospectus in the
form of a short form prospectus.
(2)  In determining, for the purpose of subsection (1),
whether an issuer is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of
a short form prospectus under section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 or 2.8,
references in those sections to the time of the filing of a
preliminary short form prospectus shall be read as references to
the time of the filing of the information circular.
Information Circular Disclosure Regarding Availability of
Information
13.3
An issuer that has a current AIF and sends its information
circular, as required under securities legislation, to
securityholders shall
(a) send, upon request to the secretary of the issuer, a copy
of the following documents to the person or company making the
request and, in the case of a securityholder, without charge:
1. The issuer's current AIF, together with one copy of any
document, or the pertinent pages of any document, incorporated by
reference in the current AIF.
2. The issuer's most recently filed comparative annual financial
statements, together with the accompanying report of the auditor,
and any interim financial statements of the issuer that have been
filed for any period after the end of its most recently completed
financial year.
3. The issuer's information circular for its most recent annual
meeting of shareholders that involved the election of directors or
any annual filing prepared instead of that information circular,
as appropriate; and
(b) include in its information circular a statement
describing the availability, without charge to a securityholder,
upon request made to the secretary of the issuer, of the documents
listed in paragraph (a).
Part 14 - Solicitations of Expressions of Interest
Solicitations of Expressions of Interest
14.1
The prospectus requirement does not apply to solicitations of
expressions of interest before the filing of a preliminary short
form prospectus for securities to be qualified for distribution
under a short form prospectus in accordance with this Instrument,
if
(a) the issuer has entered into an enforceable agreement with
an underwriter who has, or underwriters who have, agreed to
purchase the securities;
(b) the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) has fixed the
terms of the distribution and requires that the issuer file a
preliminary short form prospectus for the securities and obtain a
receipt for the preliminary short form prospectus from
(i)  the 44-101 regulator dated not more than two business
days after the date that the agreement is entered into, if the
issuer has elected to use the MRRS; or
(ii)  if the issuer has not elected to use the MRRS
(A)  the regulator in at least one jurisdiction, dated not
more than two business days after the date that the agreement is
entered into, and
(B)  the Canadian securities regulatory authorities in any
other jurisdictions in which the distribution is to be made, dated
not more than three business days after the date that the
agreement is entered into;
(c) the issuer has issued and filed a news release announcing
the agreement immediately upon entering into the agreement;
(d) upon issuance of a receipt for the preliminary short form
prospectus, a copy of the preliminary short form prospectus is
sent to each person or company who has expressed an interest in
acquiring the securities; and
(e) except as provided in paragraph (a), no agreement of
purchase and sale for the securities is entered into until the
short form prospectus has been filed and a receipt obtained.
Part 15 - Exemption
Exemption
15.1
(1)  The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may
grant an exemption from the provisions of this Instrument, in
whole or in part, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
may be imposed in the exemption.
(2)  Despite subsection (1), in Ontario and Alberta, only the
regulator may grant such an exemption.
(3)  An application made to the securities regulatory
authority or regulator for an exemption from the provisions of
this Instrument shall include a letter or memorandum describing
the matters relating to the exemption, and indicating why
consideration should be given to the granting of the exemption.
Evidence of Exemption
15.2
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) and without limiting the
manner in which an exemption under this Part may be evidenced, the
granting under this Part of an exemption, other than an exemption,
in whole or in part, from Part 2, may be evidenced by the issuance
of a receipt for a short form prospectus or an amendment to a
short form prospectus.
(2)  An exemption under this Part may be evidenced in the
manner set out in subsection (1) only if
(a) the person or company that sought the exemption
(i)  sent to the regulator the letter or memorandum referred
to in subsection 15.1 (3) on or before the date of the filing of
the preliminary short form prospectus, or
(ii)  sent to the regulator the letter or memorandum referred
to in subsection 15.1 (3) after the date of the filing of the
preliminary short form prospectus and received a written
acknowledgement from the regulator that the exemption may be
evidenced in the manner set out in subsection (1); and
(b) the Director has not before, or concurrently with, the
issuance of the receipt sent notice to the person or company that
sought the exemption, that the exemption sought may not be
evidenced in the manner set out in subsection (1).
Exemption under Prior Policy
15.3
An issuer that, immediately before the time this Instrument came
into force, was eligible to participate in the prompt offering
qualification system contemplated by NP47 under an exemption,
ruling, order, decision or other action of the securities
regulatory authority or regulator, other than a blanket ruling or
order, is qualified to file a prospectus in the form of a short
form prospectus, in reliance on the exemption, ruling, order,
decision or other action and subject to the same conditions, if
any, as are in the action, until the earliest of
(a) the end of the period for which the AIF filed by the
issuer before this Instrument came into force is a current AIF
under this Instrument;
(b) the expiration of the action; and
(c) the revocation of the action by the securities regulatory
authority or the regulator.
Part 16 - Effective Date
Effective Date
16.1
This Instrument shall come into force on December 31, 2000.
Appendix A
Authorization of Indirect Collection of
Personal Information
The attached Schedule 1 contains information concerning the name,
position with or relationship to issuer, name and address of
employer, if other than the issuer, residential address, date and
place of birth and citizenship of each director, executive officer,
promoter, if any, and each director and executive officer of the
promoter, if any, of the issuer named below (the "Issuer") as
required by securities legislation, unless previously delivered to
the regulator. The Issuer hereby confirms that each person or
company listed on Schedule 1
(a) has been notified by the Issuer
(i)  of the Issuer's delivery to the regulator of the
information pertaining to the person or company as set out in
Schedule 1,
(ii)  that such information is being collected indirectly by
the regulator under the authority granted to it in securities
legislation,
(iii)  that such information is being collected for the
purpose of enabling the regulator to discharge his/her obligations
under the provisions of securities legislation that, among other
things, require or permit the regulator to refuse to issue a
receipt for a prospectus if it appears to the regulator that the
past conduct of management or promoters of the issuer affords
reasonable grounds for belief that the business of the issuer will
not be conducted with integrity and in the best interests of its
securityholders, and
(iv)  that the title, business address and business telephone
number of the public official in the local jurisdiction as set out
in the attached Schedule 2, who can answer questions about the
regulator's indirect collection of the information; and
(b) has authorized the indirect collection of the information
by the regulator.
Date: .................................
......................................
Name of Issuer
Per: ................................
....................................
Name
.................................
Official Capacity
(Please print the name of the individual whose signature appears in
the official capacity)
Schedule 1 Personal Information
to Appendix A Authorization of Indirect
Collection of Personal Information
Name and Position with
or Relationship to Issuer
Name and Address of
Employer, if other than Issuer
Residential
Address
Date and
Place of Birth
Citizenship
Schedule 2 Public Official
to Appendix A Authorization of Indirect
Collection of Personal Information
Local Jurisdiction
Public Official
Alberta
Executive Director
Alberta Securities Commission
Suite 400
300 - 5th Avenue S.W.
Calgary, Alberta T2P 3C4
Telephone: (403) 297-4228
British Columbia
Supervisor, Registration
British Columbia Securities Commission
Suite 200
865 Hornby Street
Vancouver, British Columbia V6Z 2H4
Telephone: (604) 899-5692
Toll Free within British Columbia: (800) 373-6393
Manitoba
Director
Manitoba Securities Commission
Consumer and Corporate Affairs
Administration
1034 - 405 Broadway
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 3L6
Telephone: (204) 945-2653
New Brunswick
Administrator
Department of Justice
Securities Branch
Harbour Building, 133 Prince William Street
Suite 606, P.O. Box 5001
Saint John, New Brunswick E2L 4Y9
Telephone: (506) 658-3060
Newfoundland
Director of Securities
Department of Government Services and Lands
P.O. Box 8700
West Block, 2nd Floor, Confederation Building
St. John's, Newfoundland A1B 4J6
Telephone: (709) 729-4189
Northwest Territories
Government of the Northwest Territories
Securities Registries
Department of Justice
P.O. Box 1320,
Yellowknife, Northwest Territories X1A 2L9
Nova Scotia
Deputy Director, Compliance and Enforcement
Nova Scotia Securities Commission
P.O. Box 458
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 2P8
Telephone: (902) 424-5354
Nunavut
Nunavut Legal Registries
Government of Nunavut
BAG 9500
Yellowknife, Northwest Territories X1A 2R3
Ontario
Administrative Assistant to the Director of Corporate Finance
Ontario Securities Commission
18th Floor, 20 Queen Street West
Toronto, Ontario M5H 2S8
(416) 597-0681
Prince Edward Island
Deputy Registrar, Securities Division
Shaw Building
95 Rochford Street, P.O. Box 2000, 4th Floor
Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island C1A 7N8
Telephone: (902) 368-4550
Québec
Secretary and Director
Legal Department
Commission d'accés à l'information
Québec City (Head Office)
575, rue St-Amable
Bureau 1.10
Québec, Québec G1R 2G4
Telephone: (418) 528-7741
Toll Free in Québec: (888) 628-7741
Saskatchewan
Director
Saskatchewan Securities Commission
800-1920 Broad Street
Regina, Saskatchewan S4P 3V7
Telephone: (306) 787-5842
Yukon
Registrar of Securities
Department of Justice
Andrew A. Philipsen Law Centre
2130 - 2nd Avenue, 3rd Floor
Whitehorse, Yukon Territory Y1A 5H6
Telephone: (867) 667-5005
Appendix B
Issuer Form of Submission to Jurisdiction and Appointment of
Agent for Service of Process
1. Name of issuer (the "Issuer"):
.........................................................................................
2. Jurisdiction of incorporation, or equivalent, of Issuer:
.........................................................................................
3. Address of principal place of business of Issuer:
.........................................................................................
4. Description of securities (the "Securities"):
.........................................................................................
5. Date of the short form prospectus (the "Short Form Prospectus")
under which the Securities are offered:
.........................................................................................
6. Name of agent for service of process (the "Agent"):
..........................................................................................
7. Address for service of process of Agent in Canada (the address
may be anywhere in Canada):
..........................................................................................
8. The Issuer designates and appoints the Agent at the address of
the Agent stated above as its agent upon whom may be served any
notice, pleading, subpoena, summons or other process in any
action, investigation or administrative, criminal, quasi-criminal,
penal or other proceeding (the "Proceeding") arising out of,
relating to or concerning the distribution of the Securities made
or purported to be made under the Short Form Prospectus or the
obligations of the Issuer as a reporting issuer, and irrevocably
waives any right to raise as a defence in any such Proceeding any
alleged lack of jurisdiction to bring such Proceeding.
9. The Issuer irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the
non-exclusive jurisdiction of
(a) the judicial, quasi-judicial and administrative tribunals
of each of the provinces [and territories] of Canada in which the
securities are distributed under the Short Form Prospectus; and
(b) any administrative proceeding in any such province [or
territory],
in any Proceeding arising out of or related to or concerning the
distribution of the Securities made or purported to be made under
the Short Form Prospectus or the obligations of the issuer as a
reporting issuer.
10. Until six years after it has ceased to be a reporting issuer
in any Canadian province or territory, the Issuer shall file a new
submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service of
process in this form at least 30 days before termination of this
submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for service of
process.
11. Until six years after it has ceased to be a reporting issuer
in any Canadian province or territory, the Issuer shall file an
amended submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for
service of process at least 30 days before any change in the name
or above address of the Agent.
12. This submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for
service of process shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of [insert province or territory of above
address of Agent].
Dated: ........................
......................................
Signature of Issuer
......................................
Print name and title of signing officer of Issuer
AGENT
The undersigned accepts the appointment as agent for service of
process of [insert name of Issuer] under the terms and conditions of
the appointment of agent for service of process stated above.
Dated: ........................
......................................
Signature of Agent
.....................................
Print name and title of person signing and, if the
Agent is not an individual, the title of the person
Appendix C
Non-Issuer Form of Submission to Jurisdiction and
Appointment of Agent for Service of Process
1. Name of issuer (the "Issuer"):
......................................................................................
2. Jurisdiction of incorporation, or equivalent, of Issuer:
......................................................................................
3. Address of principal place of business of Issuer:
......................................................................................
4. Description of securities (the "Securities"):
.......................................................................................
5. Date of the short form prospectus (the "Short Form Prospectus")
under which the Securities are offered:
......................................................................................
6. Name of person filing this form (the "Filing Person"):
.......................................................................................
7. Filing Person's relationship to Issuer:
........................................................................................
8. Jurisdiction of incorporation, or equivalent, of Filing Person,
if applicable, or jurisdiction of residence of Filing Person:
........................................................................................
9. Address of principal place of business of Filing Person:
........................................................................................
10. Name of agent for service of process (the "Agent"):
........................................................................................
11. Address for service of process of Agent in Canada (which
address may be anywhere in Canada):
........................................................................................
12. The Filing Person designates and appoints the Agent at the
address of the Agent stated above as its agent upon whom may be
served any notice, pleading, subpoena, summons or other process in
any action, investigation or administrative, criminal,
quasi-criminal, penal or other proceeding (the "Proceeding")
arising out of, relating to or concerning the distribution of the
Securities made or purported to be made under the Short Form
Prospectus, and irrevocably waives any right to raise as a defence
in any such Proceeding any alleged lack of jurisdiction to bring
the Proceeding.
13. The Filing Person irrevocably and unconditionally submits to
the non-exclusive jurisdiction of
(a) the judicial, quasi-judicial and administrative tribunals
of each of the provinces [and territories] of Canada in which the
securities are distributed under the Short Form Prospectus; and
(b) any administrative proceeding in any such province [or
territory],
in any Proceeding arising out of or related to or concerning the
distribution of the Securities made or purported to be made under
the Short Form Prospectus.
14. Until six years after completion of the distribution of the
Securities made under the Short Form Prospectus, the Filing Person
shall file a new submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
agent for service of process in this form at least 30 days before
termination of this submission to jurisdiction and appointment of
agent for service of process.
15. Until six years after completion of the distribution of the
Securities under the Short Form Prospectus, the Filing Person
shall file an amended submission to jurisdiction and appointment
of agent for service of process at least 30 days before a change
in the name or above address of the Agent.
16. This submission to jurisdiction and appointment of agent for
service of process shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of [insert province or territory of above
address of Agent].
Dated: ........................
......................................
Signature of Filing Person
......................................
Print name and title of person signing and, if the
Filing Person is not an individual, the title of the
person.
AGENT
The undersigned accepts the appointment as agent for service of
process of [insert name of Filing Person] under the terms and
conditions of the appointment of agent for service of process stated
above.
Dated: ........................
.....................................
Signature of Agent
......................................
Print name and title of person signing and, if the
Agent is not an individual, the title of the person
Forms 44-101F1 AIF and 44-101F2 MD&A
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 112/2004, s. (b).]
Form 44-101F3
[am. B.C. Regs. 342/2003, Sch. C, ss. (f)-(j); 112/2004, ss. 7 and
8; 603/2004, s. 16]
SHORT FORM PROSPECTUS
Table of Contents
Item 1:
Cover Page Disclosure
1.1
Required Language
1.2
Preliminary Short Form Prospectus Disclosure
1.3
Basic Disclosure about the Distribution
1.4
Distribution
1.5
Non-Fixed Price Distributions
1.6
Reduced Price Distributions
1.7
Market for Securities
1.8
Underwriter(s)
1.9
International Issuers
Item 2:
Name of Issuer and Intercorporate Relationships
2.1
Name of Issuer
2.2
Intercorporate Relationships
Item 3:
Summary Description of Business
3.1
Summary Description of Business
Item 4:
Consolidated Capitalization and Financial Information
Released
4.1
Consolidated Capitalization
4.2
Financial Information of the Issuer Released
Item 5:
Use of Proceeds
5.1
Proceeds
5.2
Principal Purposes
Item 6:
Plan of Distribution
6.1
Disclosure of Market Out
6.2
Best Efforts Offering
6.3
Determination of Price
6.4
Over-Allotments
6.5
Minimum Distribution
6.6
Reduced Price Distributions
6.7
Listing Application
6.8
Conditional Listing Approval
Item 7:
Earnings Coverage Ratios
7.1
Earnings Coverage Ratios
Item 8:
Description of Securities Being Distributed
8.1
Shares
8.2
Debt Securities
8.3
Asset-backed Securities
8.4
Specified Derivatives
8.5
Other Securities
8.6
Modification of Terms
8.7
Ratings
8.8
Constraints
8.9
Other Attributes
Item 9:
Selling securityholder
9.1
Selling securityholder
Item 10:
Resource Property
10.1
Resource Property
Item 11:
Significant Acquisitions and Significant Dispositions
11.1
Significant Acquisitions and Significant Dispositions
Item 12:
Documents Incorporated by Reference
12.1
Mandatory Incorporation by Reference
12.2
Mandatory Incorporation by Reference of Future Documents
12.3
Exception for Guaranteed Securities
12.4
Required Language
12.5
Exception for Certain Filings
12.6
List of Material Change Reports
12.7
Reverse Take-Overs
Item 13:
Issues of Guaranteed Securities
13.1
Issuer Disclosure
13.2
Credit Supporter Disclosure
Item 14:
Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter
14.1
Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter
Item 15:
Interest of Experts
15.1
Interest of Experts
Item 16:
Promoters
16.1
Promoters
Item 17:
Risk Factors
17.1
Risk Factors
Item 18:
Other Material Facts
18.1
Other Material Facts
Item 19:
Statutory Rights of Withdrawal and Rescission
19.1
General
19.2
Non-fixed Price Offerings
Item 20:
Reconciliation to Canadian GAAP
20.1
Reconciliation to Canadian GAAP
Item 21:
Certificates
21.1
Officers, Directors and Promoters
21.2
Underwriters
21.3
Related Credit Supporters
21.4
Amendments
FORM 44-101F3
[am. B.C. Reg. 603/2004, s. 16.]
SHORT FORM PROSPECTUS
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The objective of the short form prospectus is to provide
information concerning the issuer that an investor needs in
order to make an informed investment decision. This Form sets
out specific disclosure requirements that are in addition to the
general requirement under securities legislation to provide
full, true and plain disclosure of all material facts relating
to the securities to be distributed. Certain rules of specific
application impose prospectus disclosure obligations in addition
to those described in this Form.
(2) Terms used and not defined in this Form that are defined or
interpreted in National Instrument 44-101 Short Form Prospectus
Distributions shall bear that definition or interpretation.
Other definitions are set out in National Instrument 14-101
Definitions.
(3) In determining the degree of detail required a standard of
materiality should be applied. Materiality is a matter of
judgement in the particular circumstance, and should generally
be determined in relation to an item's significance to
investors, analysts and other users of information. An item of
information, or an aggregate of items, is considered material if
it is probable that its omission or misstatement would influence
or change an investment decision with respect to the issuer's
securities. In determining whether information is material, take
into account both quantitative and qualitative factors. The
potential significance of items should be considered
individually rather than on a net basis, if the items have an
offsetting effect. This concept of materiality is consistent
with the financial reporting notion of materiality contained in
the Handbook.
(4) Unless an item specifically requires disclosure only in the
preliminary short form prospectus, the disclosure requirements
set out in this Form apply to both the preliminary short form
prospectus and the short form prospectus. Details concerning the
price and other matters dependent upon or relating to price,
such as the number of securities being distributed, may be left
out of the preliminary short form prospectus, along with
specifics concerning the plan of distribution, to the extent
that these matters have not been decided.
(5) Any information required in a short form prospectus may be
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus, other
than confidential material change reports. Clearly identify in a
short form prospectus any document incorporated by reference. If
an excerpt of a document is incorporated by reference, clearly
identify the excerpt in the short form prospectus by caption and
paragraph of the document. Any material incorporated by
reference in a short form prospectus is required under sections
10.2 and 10.3 of National Instrument 44-101 to be filed with the
short form prospectus unless it has been previously filed.
(6) The disclosure must be understandable to readers and
presented in any easy to read format. The presentation of
information should comply with the plain language principles
listed in section 9.2 of Companion Policy 44-101CP Short Form
Prospectus Distributions. If technical terms are required, clear
and concise explanations should be included.
(7) No reference need be made to inapplicable items and, unless
otherwise required in this Form, negative answers to items may
be omitted.
(8) Where the term "issuer" is used, it may be necessary, in
order to meet the requirement for full, true and plain
disclosure of all material facts, to also include disclosure
with respect to the issuer's subsidiaries and investees. If it
is more likely than not that a person or company will become a
subsidiary or investee, it may be necessary to also include
disclosure with respect to the person or company.
(9) An issuer that is a special purpose vehicle may have to
modify the disclosure items to reflect the special purpose
nature of its business.
(10) If disclosure is required as of a specific date and there
has been a material change or change that is otherwise
significant in the required information subsequent to that date,
present the information as of the date of the change or a date
subsequent to the change instead.
(11) If the term "class" is used in any item to describe
securities, the term includes a series of a class.
(12) Disclosure in a preliminary short form prospectus or short
form prospectus must be consistent with National Instrument
51-101 Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities if the
issuer is engaged in oil and gas activities (as defined in
National Instrument 51-101) and:
(
a
)
has filed or is required to have filed (or has included or is
required to have included in another filed document) audited
annual financial statements for a financial year that ends on or
after December 31, 2003;
(
b
)
has, prior to the date on which it is required to have filed
audited financial statements for a financial year that ends on
or after December 31, 2003, filed or is required to have filed
(or has included or is required to have included in another
filed document) the statement referred to in Item 1 of section
2.1 of National Instrument 51-101;
(
c
)
is filing a preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus:
(
i
)
that includes or is required to include audited financial
statements for a financial year ended on or after December 31,
2003;
(
ii
)
after March 30, 2004 for an initial public offering of
securities, and the prospectus includes financial statements for
a financial year or interim period that ends on or after
December 31, 2003; or
(
iii
)
after December 31, 2003 and during the issuer's first financial
year, and the prospectus includes financial statements for an
interim period that ends on or after December 31, 2003; or
(
d
)
indicates in the preliminary short form prospectus or short form
prospectus that information disclosed therein is presented in
accordance with National Instrument 51-101.
Item 1: Cover Page Disclosure
1.1 Required Language
— State in
italics
at the top of the cover page the following:
"No securities regulatory authority has expressed an opinion
about these securities and it is an offence to claim otherwise.
"
1.2 Preliminary Short Form Prospectus Disclosure
— Every preliminary short form prospectus shall have printed in red
ink and italics on the top of the cover page the following, with the
bracketed information completed:
"A copy of this preliminary short form prospectus has been filed
with the securities regulatory authority(ies) in [each of/certain
of the provinces/provinces and territories of Canada] but has not
yet become final for the purpose of the sale of securities.
Information contained in this preliminary short form prospectus
may not be complete and may have to be amended. The securities may
not be sold until a receipt for the short form prospectus is
obtained from the securities regulatory authority(ies)."
INSTRUCTION
Issuers shall complete the bracketed information by
(
i
)
inserting the names of each jurisdiction in which the issuer
intends to offer securities under the short form prospectus;
(
ii
)
stating that the filing has been made in each of the provinces
of Canada or each of the provinces and territories; or
(
iii
)
identifying the filing jurisdictions by exception (i.e., every
province of Canada or every province and territory of Canada,
except [excluded jurisdiction]).
1.3 Basic Disclosure about the Distribution
— State the following immediately below the disclosure required
under Items 1.1 and 1.2, with the bracketed information completed:
[Preliminary] Short Form Prospectus
[Initial Public Offering or New Issue and/or Secondary Offering]
(Date)
Name of Issuer
[number and type of securities qualified for distribution under
the short form prospectus, including any options or warrants, and
the price per security]
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The description of the number and type of securities being
distributed shall include the restricted share terms, if any,
prescribed by securities legislation.
(2) If the offering price is in a currency other than the
Canadian dollar or the U.S. dollar, comply with the exchange
rate disclosure requirements of National Policy Statement No. 14
Acceptability of Currencies in Material Filed with Securities
Regulatory Authorities, or any successor instrument.
1.4 Distribution
(1) If the securities are being distributed for cash, provide the
information called for below, in substantially the following
tabular form or in a note to the table:
Price to public
(a)
Underwriting discounts
or commissions
(b)
Proceeds to issuer or
selling securityholders
(c)
Per Security
Total
(2) If there is an over-allotment option, describe the terms of
the option and the fact that the short form prospectus qualifies
both the grant of the option and the issuance or transfer of
securities that will be issued or transferred if the option is
exercised.
(3) If the distribution of the securities is to be on a best
efforts basis, provide totals for both the minimum and maximum
subscriptions, if applicable.
(4) If debt securities are distributed at a premium or a discount,
state in
bold type
the effective yield if held to maturity.
(5) Disclose separately those securities that are underwritten,
those under option and those to be sold on a best efforts basis
and, in the case of a best efforts distribution, the latest date
that the distribution is to remain open.
(6) In column (b) of the table, disclose only commissions paid or
payable in cash by the issuer or selling securityholder and
discounts granted. Set out in a note to the table
(a) commissions or other consideration paid or payable by
persons or companies other than the issuer or selling
securityholder;
(b) consideration other than discounts granted and cash paid
or payable by the issuer or selling securityholder, including
warrants and options; and
(c) any finder's fees or similar required payment.
(7) If a security is being distributed for the account of a
selling securityholder, state the name of the selling
securityholder and a cross-reference to the applicable section in
the short form prospectus where further information about the
selling securityholder is provided. State the portion of expenses
of the distribution to be borne by the selling securityholder and,
if none of the expenses of the distribution are being borne by the
selling securityholder, include a statement to that effect and
discuss the reasons why this is the case.
(8) If the underwriter has been granted a compensation option,
state whether the short form prospectus qualifies the grant of all
or part of the compensation option and provide a cross-reference
to the applicable section in the short form prospectus where
further information about the compensation option is provided.
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) Estimate amounts, if necessary. For non-fixed price
distributions that are being made on a best efforts basis,
disclosure of the information called for by the table may be set
forth as a percentage or a range of percentages and need not be
set forth in tabular form.
(2) If debt securities are being distributed, express the
information as a percentage.
1.5 Non-Fixed Price Distributions
— If the securities are being distributed at non-fixed prices,
disclose
(a) the discount allowed or commission payable to the
underwriter;
(b) any other compensation payable to the underwriter and, if
applicable, that the underwriter's compensation will be increased
or decreased by the amount by which the aggregate price paid for
the securities by the purchasers exceeds or is less than the gross
proceeds paid by the underwriter to the issuer or selling
securityholder;
(c) that the securities to be distributed under the short
form prospectus will be distributed, as applicable, at
(i)  prices determined by reference to the prevailing price
of a specified security in a specified market,
(ii)  market prices prevailing at the time of sale, or
(iii)  prices to be negotiated with purchasers;
(d) that prices may vary as between purchasers and during the
period of distribution;
(e) if the price of the securities is to be determined by
reference to the prevailing price of a specified security in a
specified market, the price of the specified security in the
specified market at the latest practicable date;
(f) if the price of the securities will be the market price
prevailing at the time of sale, the market price at the latest
practicable date; and
(g) the net proceeds or, if the distribution is to be made on
a best efforts basis, the minimum amount of net proceeds, if any,
to be received by the issuer or selling securityholder.
1.6 Reduced Price Distributions
— If an underwriter wishes to be able to decrease the price at which
securities are distributed for cash from the initial offering price
disclosed in the short form prospectus, include in
bold type
a cross-reference to the section in the short form prospectus where
disclosure concerning the possible price decrease is provided.
1.7 Market for Securities
(1) Identify the exchange(s) and quotation system(s), if any, on
which securities of the issuer of the same class as the securities
being distributed are traded or quoted and the market price of
those securities as of the latest practicable date.
(2) Disclose any intention to stabilize the market and provide a
cross-reference to the section in the short form prospectus where
further information about market stabilization is provided.
(3) If no market for the securities being distributed under the
short form prospectus exists or is to exist after the
distribution, state the following in
bold type
:
"There is no market through which these securities may be sold
and purchasers may not be able to resell securities purchased
under the short form prospectus."
1.8 Underwriter(s)
(1) State the name of each underwriter.
(2) If applicable,
(a) until Multilateral Instrument 33-105 Underwriting
Conflicts comes into force, provide the disclosure required by
Item 15 of Appendix B of National Policy Statement No. 47 Prompt
Offering Qualification System as that National Policy read
immediately before it was revoked; and
(b) after Multilateral Instrument 33-105 comes into force,
comply with the requirements of Multilateral Instrument 33-105 for
cover page prospectus disclosure.
(3) If an underwriter has agreed to purchase all of the securities
being distributed at a specified price and the underwriter's
obligations are subject to conditions, state the following, with
the bracketed information completed:
"We, as principals, conditionally offer these securities, subject
to prior sale, if, as and when issued by [name of issuer] and
accepted by us in accordance with the conditions contained in the
underwriting agreement referred to under Plan of Distribution."
(4) If an underwriter has agreed to purchase a specified number or
principal amount of the securities at a specified price, state
that the securities are to be taken up by the underwriter, if at
all, on or before a date not later than 42 days after the date of
the receipt for the short form prospectus.
(5) If there is no underwriter involved in the distribution,
provide a statement in bold type to the effect that no underwriter
has been involved in the preparation of the short form prospectus
or performed any review of the contents of the short form
prospectus.
1.9 International Issuers
— If the issuer, a selling securityholder, a credit supporter of the
securities being distributed under the short form prospectus or a
promoter of the issuer is incorporated, continued or otherwise
organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides
outside of Canada, comply with National Instrument 41-101 Prospectus
Disclosure Requirements by stating the following on the cover page
or under a separate heading elsewhere in the short form prospectus,
with the bracketed information completed:
"The [issuer, selling securityholder, credit supporter and/or
promoter] is incorporated, continued or otherwise organized under
the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or resides outside of Canada.
Although [the issuer, selling securityholder, credit supporter
and/or promoter] has appointed [name(s) and address(es) of agent(s)
for service] as its agent(s) for service of process in [list
jurisdictions] it may not be possible for investors to collect from
the issuer, selling securityholder, credit supporter or promoter,
judgments obtained in Canadian courts predicated on the civil
liability provisions of securities legislation."
Item 2: Name of Issuer and Intercorporate Relationships
2.1 Name of Issuer
— State the full corporate name of the issuer or, if the issuer is
an unincorporated entity, the full name under which the entity
exists and carries on business and the address(es) of the issuer's
head and registered office.
2.2 Intercorporate Relationships
— Describe, by way of a diagram or otherwise, the intercorporate
relationships among the issuer and the issuer's subsidiaries as of
the most recent financial year end of the issuer. For each
subsidiary state:
(a) the percentage of the votes attaching to all voting
securities of the subsidiary represented by voting securities
beneficially owned, or over which control or direction is
exercised, by the issuer;
(b) the percentage of each class of non-voting securities
beneficially owned, or over which control or direction is
exercised, by the issuer; and
(c) the place of incorporation or continuance.
INSTRUCTION
A particular subsidiary may be omitted if
(a) the total assets of the subsidiary do not constitute more
than 10 per cent of the consolidated assets of the issuer at the
most recent financial year end;
(b) the sales and operating revenues of the subsidiary do not
exceed 10 per cent of the consolidated sales and operating
revenues of the issuer at the most recent financial year end;
and
(c) the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) would be satisfied
if
(
i
)
the subsidiaries that may be omitted under paragraphs (a) and
(b) were considered in the aggregate, and
(
ii
)
the reference to 10 per cent in those paragraphs were changed to
20 per cent.
Item 3: Summary Description of Business
3.1 Summary of Description of Business
— Provide a brief summary on a consolidated basis of the business
carried on and intended to be carried on by the issuer.
Item 4: Consolidated Capitalization and Financial Information
Released
4.1 Consolidated Capitalization
— Describe any material change in, and the effect of the material
change on, the share and loan capital of the issuer, on a
consolidated basis, since the date of the comparative financial
statements for the issuer's most recently completed financial year
filed with the securities regulatory authority.
4.2 Financial Information of the Issuer Released
— If before the short form prospectus is filed, financial
information about the issuer for a period for which financial
statements are required to be filed is publicly disseminated by or
on behalf of the issuer through news release or otherwise, the short
form prospectus shall include the content of the news release or
public communication.
Item 5: Use of Proceeds
5.1 Proceeds
— State the estimated net proceeds to be received by the issuer or
selling securityholder or, in the case of a non-fixed price
distribution or a distribution to be made on a best efforts basis,
the minimum amount, if any, of net proceeds to be received by the
issuer or selling securityholder from the sale of the securities
distributed. If the short form prospectus is used for a special
warrant or similar transaction, state the amount that has been
received by the issuer of the special warrants or similar securities
on the sale of the special warrants or similar securities.
5.2 Principal Purposes
— Describe in reasonable detail and, if appropriate using tabular
form, each of the principal purposes, with approximate amounts, for
which the net proceeds will be used by the issuer.
Item 6: Plan of Distribution
6.1 Disclosure of Market Out
— If securities are distributed by an underwriter that has agreed to
purchase all of the securities at a specified price and the
underwriter's obligations are subject to conditions, include a
statement in substantially the following form, with the bracketed
information completed and with modifications necessary to reflect
the terms of the distribution:
"Under an agreement dated [insert date of agreement] between [insert
name of issuer or selling securityholder] and [insert name(s) of
underwriter(s)], as underwriter[s], [insert name of issuer or
selling securityholder] has agreed to sell and the underwriter[s]
[has/have] agreed to purchase on [insert closing date] the
securities at a price of [insert offering price], payable in cash to
[insert name of issuer or selling securityholder] against delivery.
The obligations of the underwriter[s] under the agreement may be
terminated at [its/their] discretion on the basis of [its/their]
assessment of the state of the financial markets and may also be
terminated upon the occurrence of certain stated events. The
underwriter[s] [is/are], however, obligated to take up and pay for
all of the securities if any of the securities are purchased under
the agreement."
6.2 Best Efforts Offering
— Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities being
distributed other than on the basis described in Item 6.1.
6.3 Determination of Price
— Disclose the method by which the distribution price has been or
will be determined and, if estimates have been provided, explain the
process for determining the estimates.
6.4 Over-Allotments
— If the issuer, a selling securityholder or an underwriter knows or
has reason to believe that there is an intention to over-allot or
that the price of any security may be stabilized to facilitate the
distribution of the securities, disclose this information.
6.5 Minimum Distribution
— If a minimum amount of funds is required under the issue and the
securities are to be distributed on a best efforts basis, state the
minimum amount required to be raised and the maximum that could be
raised. Also indicate that the distribution will not continue for a
period of more than 90 days after the date of the receipt for the
short form prospectus if subscriptions representing the minimum
amount of funds are not obtained within that period, unless each of
the persons and companies who subscribed within that period has
consented to the continuation.
6.6 Reduced Price Distributions
— If an underwriter wishes to be able to decrease the price at which
securities are distributed for cash from the initial public offering
price disclosed in the short form prospectus and thereafter change,
from time to time, the price at which securities are distributed
under the short form prospectus in accordance with the procedures
permitted by National Instrument 44-101, disclose that, after the
underwriter has made a reasonable effort to sell all of the
securities at the initial public offering price disclosed in the
short form prospectus, the offering price may be decreased, and
further changed from time to time, to an amount not greater than the
initial offering price disclosed in the short form prospectus and
that the compensation realized by the underwriter will be decreased
by the amount that the aggregate price paid by purchasers for the
securities is less than the gross proceeds paid by the underwriter
to the issuer or selling securityholder.
6.7 Listing Application
— If application has been made to list or quote the securities being
distributed, include a statement in substantially the following form
with the bracketed information completed:
"The issuer has applied to [list/quote] the securities distributed
under this short form prospectus on [name of exchange or other
market]. [Listing/Quotation] will be subject to the issuer
fulfilling all the listing requirements of [name of exchange or
other market]."
6.8 Conditional Listing Approval
— If application has been made to list or quote the securities being
distributed and conditional listing approval has been received,
include a statement in substantially the following form, with the
bracketed information completed:
"[name of exchange or other market] has conditionally approved the
[listing/quotation] of these securities. [Listing/Quotation] is
subject to the [name of the issuer] fulfilling all of the
requirements of the [name of exchange or market] on or before
[date], [including distribution of these securities to a minimum
number of public securityholders.]"
Item 7: Earnings Coverage Ratios
7.1 Earnings Coverage Ratios
(1) If the securities being distributed are debt securities having
a term to maturity in excess of one year or are preferred shares,
disclose the following earnings coverage ratios adjusted in
accordance with paragraph (2):
1 The earnings coverage ratio based on the 12 month period ended
on the last day of the most recently completed period for which
audited annual financial statements of the issuer have been, or
are required to have been, filed with any Canadian securities
regulatory authority.
2. The earnings coverage ratio based on the 12 month period ended
on the last day of the most recently completed period for which
interim financial statements of the issuer have been, or are
required to have been, filed with any Canadian securities
regulatory authority, if the period is subsequent to the last day
of the most recently completed period for which audited annual
financial statements of the issuer have been, or are required to
have been, filed with any Canadian securities regulatory
authority.
(2) Adjust the ratios referred to in paragraph (1) to reflect
(a) the issuance of the securities being distributed under
the short form prospectus, based on the price at which these
securities are expected to be distributed;
(b) in the case of a distribution of preferred shares,
(i)  all preferred shares issued since the date of the annual
or interim financial statements, and
(ii)  all preferred shares repurchased, redeemed, or
otherwise retired since the date of the annual or interim
financial statements and all preferred shares to be repurchased,
redeemed, or otherwise retired from the proceeds to be realized
from the sale of securities under the short form prospectus;
(c) the issuance of all long-term financial liabilities, as
defined in accordance with the issuer's GAAP;
(d) the repayment, redemption or other retirement of all
long-term financial liabilities, as defined in accordance with the
issuer's GAAP, since the date of the annual or interim financial
statements and all long-term financial liabilities to be repaid or
redeemed from the proceeds to be realized from the sale of
securities distributed under the short form prospectus; and
(e) the servicing costs that were incurred, or are expected
to be incurred, in relation to the adjustments.
(3) If the issuer is distributing, or has outstanding, debt
securities that are accounted for, in whole or in part, as equity,
disclose in notes to the ratios required under paragraph (1)
(a) that the ratios have been calculated excluding the
carrying charges for those securities that have been reflected in
equity in the calculation of the issuer's interest and dividend
obligations;
(b) that if those securities had been accounted for in their
entirety as debt for the purpose of calculating the ratios
required under paragraph (1), the entire amount of the annual
carrying charges for those securities would have been reflected in
the calculation of the issuer's interest and dividend obligations;
and
(c) the earnings coverage ratios for the periods referred to
in paragraph (1), calculated as though those securities had been
accounted for as debt.
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) Cash flow coverage may be disclosed but only as a supplement
to earnings coverage and only if the method of calculation is
fully disclosed. Earnings coverage is calculated by dividing an
entity's earnings (the numerator) by its interest and dividend
obligations (the denominator).
(2) For the earnings coverage calculation
(a) the numerator should be calculated using consolidated net
income before interest and income taxes;
(b) imputed interest income from the proceeds of a distribution
should not be added to the numerator;
(c) an issuer may also present, as supplementary disclosure, a
coverage calculation based on earnings before discontinued
operations and extraordinary items;
(d) for distributions of debt securities, the appropriate
denominator is interest expense determined in accordance with
the issuer's GAAP, after giving effect to the new debt issue and
any retirement of obligations plus the amount of interest that
has been capitalized during the period;
(e) for distributions of preferred shares
(
i
)
the appropriate denominator is dividends declared during the
period, together with undeclared dividends on cumulative
preferred shares, after giving effect to the new preferred share
issue, plus the issuer's annual interest requirements, including
the amount of interest that has been capitalized during the
period, less any retirement obligations,
(
ii
)
the coverage calculation should gross up dividends to a
before-tax equivalent (the "prior deduction method") using the
issuer's effective income tax rate (the rate that is reconciled
to the basic income tax rate in the issuer's financial statement
notes), and
(
iii
)
the combined interest and dividend method (the "combined
method"), and not the prior deduction method, should be used to
calculate earnings coverage; and
(f) for distributions of both debt securities and preferred
shares, the appropriate denominator is the same as for a
preferred share issue, except that the denominator should also
reflect the effect of the debt being offered pursuant to the
short form prospectus.
(3) The prior deduction method referred to in Instruction 2 (e)
(ii) reflects the net coverage for preferred dividends after
meeting interest obligations and results in a higher ratio than
the combined method. As investors may falsely interpret the
higher ratio as indicating less risk, without appreciating the
fact that debtholders rank before preferred shareholders, the
combined method should be used, although disclosure of a
supplementary coverage ratio calculated using the prior
deduction method is permitted.
(4) The denominator represents a pro forma calculation of the
aggregate of an issuer's interest obligations on all long-term
debt and dividend obligations (including both dividends declared
and undeclared dividends on cumulative preferred shares) with
respect to all outstanding preferred shares, as adjusted to
reflect
(a) the issuance of all long-term debt and, in addition in the
case of an issuance of preferred shares, all preferred shares
issued, since the date of the annual or interim financial
statements;
(b) the issuance of the securities that are to be distributed
under the short form prospectus, based on a reasonable estimate
of the price at which these securities will be distributed;
(c) the repayment or redemption of all long-term debt since the
date of the annual or interim financial statements, all
long-term debt to be repaid or redeemed from the proceeds to be
realized from the sale of securities under the short form
prospectus and, in addition, in the case of an issuance of
preferred shares, all preferred shares repaid or redeemed since
the date of the annual or interim financial statements and all
preferred shares to be repaid or redeemed from the proceeds to
be realized from the sale of securities under the short form
prospectus; and
(d) the servicing costs that were incurred, or will be incurred,
in relation to the above adjustments.
(5) If meaningful in the circumstances, the earnings coverage
ratio must be calculated and disclosed based on a pro forma
income statement that is included in a short form prospectus.
(6) For debt securities, disclosure of earnings coverage shall
include language similar to the following:
"The Company's interest requirements, after giving effect to the
issue of [the debt securities to be distributed under the short
form prospectus], amounted to $• for the 12 months ended •. The
Company's earnings before interest and income tax for the 12
months then ended was $•, which is • times the Company's
interest requirements for this period."
(7) For preferred share issues, disclosure of earnings coverage
shall include language similar to the following:
"The Company's dividend requirements on all of its preferred
shares, after giving effect to the issue of [the preferred
shares to be distributed under the short form prospectus], and
adjusted to a before-tax equivalent using an effective income
tax rate of •%, amounted to $• for the 12 months ended •. The
Company's interest requirements for the 12 months then ended
amounted to $•. The Company's earnings before interest and
income tax for the 12 months ended • was $•, which is • times
the Company's aggregate dividend and interest requirements for
this period."
(8) If the issuer is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a credit
supporter, has no operations or only minimal operations, that
are independent of the credit supporter and is an entity that
functions essentially as a special purpose vehicle, disclose the
earnings coverage of the credit supporter. If this disclosure is
included, the earnings coverage of the issuer may not be
material and, if not material, may be omitted. If the issuer is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the credit supporter but has more
than minimal operations that are independent of the credit
supporter, or if the issuer is not a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the credit supporter, the earnings coverage of both the credit
supporter and the issuer shall be disclosed.
(9) If the earnings coverage is less than one-to-one, disclose
this fact in bold-face on the cover page of the short form
prospectus. While the actual coverage ratio should not be
disclosed in these circumstances, the dollar amount of the
coverage deficiency (i.e., the dollar amount of earnings
required to attain a ratio of one-to-one) should be disclosed in
the body of the short form prospectus.
(10) Other earnings coverage calculations may be included as
supplementary disclosure to the required earnings coverage
calculations outlined above as long as their derivation is
disclosed and they are not given greater prominence than the
required earnings coverage calculations.
Item 8: Description of Securities Being Distributed
8.1 Shares
— If shares are being distributed, state the description or the
designation of the class of the shares and describe all material
attributes and characteristics, including
(a) dividend rights;
(b) voting rights;
(c) rights upon dissolution or winding up;
(d) pre-emptive rights;
(e) conversion or exchange rights;
(f) redemption, retraction, purchase for cancellation or
surrender provisions;
(g) sinking or purchase fund provisions;
(h) provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of
additional securities and any other material restrictions; and
(i) provisions requiring a shareholder to contribute
additional capital.
8.2 Debt Securities
— If debt securities are being distributed, describe all material
attributes and characteristics of the indebtedness and the security,
if any, for the debt including
(a) provisions for interest rate, maturity and premium, if
any;
(b) conversion or exchange rights;
(c) redemption, retraction, purchase for cancellation or
surrender provisions;
(d) sinking or purchase fund provisions;
(e) the nature and priority of any security for the debt
securities, briefly identifying the principal properties subject
to lien or charge;
(f) provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of
additional securities, the incurring of additional indebtedness
and other material negative covenants including restrictions
against payment of dividends and restrictions against giving
security on the assets of the issuer or its subsidiaries and
provisions as to the release or substitution of assets securing
the debt securities;
(g) the name of the trustee under any indenture relating to
the debt securities and the nature of any material relationship
between the trustee or any of its affiliates and the issuer or any
of its affiliates; and
(h) any financial arrangements between the issuer and any of
its affiliates or among its affiliates that could affect the
security for the indebtedness.
8.3 Asset-backed Securities
— If asset-backed securities are being distributed, describe
(a) the material attributes and characteristics of the
asset-backed securities, including
(i)  the rate of interest or stipulated yield and any
premium,
(ii)  the date for repayment of principal or return of
capital and any circumstances in which payments of principal or
capital may be made before such date, including any redemption or
pre-payment obligations or privileges of the issuer and any events
that may trigger early liquidation or amortization of the
underlying pool of financial assets,
(iii)  provisions for the accumulation of cash flows to
provide for the repayment of principal or return of capital,
(iv)  provisions permitting or restricting the issuance of
additional securities and any other material negative covenants
applicable to the issuer,
(v)  the nature, order and priority of the entitlements of
holders of asset-backed securities and any other entitled persons
or companies to receive cash flows generated from the underlying
pool of financial assets, and
(vi)  any events, covenants, standards or preconditions that
may reasonably be expected to affect the timing or amount of
payments or distributions to be made under the asset-backed
securities, including those that are dependent or based on the
economic performance of the underlying pool of financial assets;
(b) information on the underlying pool of financial assets,
for the period from the date as at which the following information
was presented in the issuer's current AIF to a date not more than
90 days before the date of the issuance of a receipt for the
preliminary short form prospectus, of
(i)  the composition of the pool as of the end of the period,
(ii)  income and losses from the pool for the period,
presented on an at least an annual basis or such shorter period as
is reasonable given the nature of the underlying pool of assets,
and
(iii)  the payment, prepayment and collection experience of
the pool for the period on at least an annual basis or such
shorter period as is reasonable given the nature of the underlying
pool of assets,
(c) the type or types of the financial assets, the manner in
which the financial assets originated or will originate and, if
applicable, the mechanism and terms of the agreement governing the
transfer of the financial assets comprising the underlying pool to
or through the issuer, including the consideration paid for the
financial assets;
(d) any person or company who
(i)  originated, sold or deposited a material portion of the
financial assets comprising the pool, or has agreed to do so,
(ii)  acts, or has agreed to act, as a trustee, custodian,
bailee or agent of the issuer or any holder of the asset-backed
securities, or in a similar capacity,
(iii)  administers or services a material portion of the
financial assets comprising the pool or provides administrative or
managerial services to the issuer, or has agreed to do so, on a
conditional basis or otherwise, if
(A)  finding a replacement provider of the services at a cost
comparable to the cost of the current provider is not reasonably
likely,
(B)  a replacement provider of the services is likely to
achieve materially worse results than the current provider,
(C)  the current provider of the services is likely to
default in its service obligations because of its current
financial condition, or
(D)  the disclosure is otherwise material,
(iv)  provides a guarantee, alternative credit support or
other credit enhancement to support the obligations of the issuer
under the asset-backed securities or the performance of some or
all of the financial assets in the pool, or has agreed to do so,
or
(v)  lends to the issuer in order to facilitate the timely
payment or repayment of amounts payable under the asset-backed
securities, or has agreed to do so;
(e) the general business activities and material
responsibilities under the asset-backed securities of a person or
company referred to in paragraph (d);
(f) the terms of any material relationships between
(i)  any of the persons or companies referred to in paragraph
(d) or any of their respective affiliates, and
(ii)  the issuer;
(g) any provisions relating to termination of services or
responsibilities of any of the persons or companies referred to in
paragraph (d) and the terms on which a replacement may be
appointed; and
(h) any risk factors associated with the asset-backed
securities, including disclosure of material risks associated with
changes in interest rates or prepayment levels, and any
circumstances where payments on the asset-backed securities could
be impaired or disrupted as a result of any reasonably foreseeable
event that may delay, divert or disrupt the cash flows dedicated
to service the asset-backed securities.
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) Present the information required under paragraph (b) in a
manner that will enable a reader to easily determine whether,
and the extent to which, the events, covenants, standards and
preconditions referred to in clause (a)(vi) have occurred, are
being satisfied or may be satisfied.
(2) If the information required under paragraph (b) is not
compiled specifically from the underlying pool of financial
assets, but is compiled from a larger pool of the same assets
from which the securitized assets are randomly selected such
that the performance of the larger pool is representative of the
performance of the pool of securitized assets, then an issuer
may comply with paragraph (b) by providing the information
required based on the larger pool and disclosing that it has
done so.
(3) Issuers are required to summarize contractual arrangements
in plain language and may not merely restate the text of the
contracts referred to. The use of diagrams to illustrate the
roles of, and the relationship among, the persons and companies
referred to in paragraph (d) and the contractual arrangements
underlying the asset-backed securities is encouraged.
8.4 Specified Derivatives
— If specified derivatives are being distributed, describe fully the
material attributes and characteristics of the specified
derivatives, including
(a) the calculation of the value or payment obligations under
the derivatives;
(b) the exercise of the derivatives;
(c) the settlement of exercises of the derivatives;
(d) the underlying interest of the derivatives;
(e) the role of a calculation expert in connection with the
derivatives;
(f) the role of any credit supporter of the derivatives; and
(g) the risk factors associated with the derivatives.
8.5 Other Securities
— If securities other than shares, debt securities, asset-backed
securities or specified derivatives are being distributed, describe
fully the material attributes and characteristics of those
securities.
8.6 Modification of Terms
— Describe provisions as to modification, amendment or variation of
any rights or other terms attached to the securities being
distributed. If the rights of holders of securities may be modified
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions attached to the
securities or the provisions of the governing statute relating to
the securities, explain briefly.
8.7 Ratings
— If one or more ratings, including provisional ratings, have been
received from one or more approved rating organizations for the
securities being distributed and the rating or ratings continue in
effect, disclose
(a) each security rating, including a provisional rating,
received from an approved rating organization;
(b) the name of each approved rating organization that has
assigned a rating for the securities to be distributed;
(c) a definition or description of the category in which each
approved rating organization rated the securities to be
distributed and the relative rank of each rating within the
organization's overall classification system;
(d) an explanation of what the rating addresses and what
attributes, if any, of the securities to be distributed are not
addressed by the rating;
(e) any factors or considerations identified by the approved
rating organization as giving rise to unusual risks associated
with the securities to be distributed;
(f) a statement that a security rating is not a
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject
to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization;
and
(g) any announcement made by, or any proposed announcement
known to the issuer to be made by, an approved rating organization
that the organization is reviewing or intends to revise or
withdraw a rating previously assigned and required to be disclosed
under this paragraph.
8.8 Constraints
— If there are constraints imposed on the ownership of securities of
the issuer to ensure that the issuer has a required level of
Canadian ownership, describe the mechanism, if any, by which the
level of Canadian ownership of the securities of the issuer will be
monitored and maintained.
8.9 Other Attributes
(1) If the rights attaching to the securities being distributed
are materially limited or qualified by the rights of any other
class of securities, or if any other class of securities ranks
ahead of or equally with the securities being distributed, include
information about the other securities that will enable investors
to understand the rights attaching to the securities being
distributed.
(2) If securities of the class being distributed may be partially
redeemed or repurchased, state the manner of selecting the
securities to be redeemed or repurchased.
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) This Item requires only a brief summary of the provisions
that are material from an investment standpoint. The provisions
attaching to the securities being distributed or any other class
of securities do not need to be set out in full. They may, in
the issuer's discretion, be attached as a schedule to the
prospectus.
(2) No information need be given as to any class of securities
that is to be redeemed or otherwise retired if appropriate steps
to assure redemption or retirement have been or will be taken
before or contemporaneously with the delivery of the securities
being distributed.
Item 9: Selling Securityholder
9.1 Selling Securityholder
— If any of the securities being distributed are to be distributed
for the account of a securityholder, state the following:
1. The name of the securityholder.
2. The number or amount of securities owned by the securityholder
of the class being distributed.
3. The number or amount of securities of the class being
distributed for the account of the securityholder.
4. The number or amount of securities of the issuer of any class
to be owned by the securityholder after the distribution, and the
percentage that number or amount represents of the total
outstanding.
5. Whether the securities referred to in paragraph 2, 3 or 4 are
owned both of record and beneficially, of record only, or
beneficially only.
6. The date or dates the securityholder acquired the securities.
7. If the securityholder in the 12 months preceding the date of
the preliminary short form prospectus acquired any securities of
the same class as the securities being distributed, the cost to
the securityholder in the aggregate and on a per security basis.
Item 10: Resource Property
10.1 Resource Property
— If a material part of the proceeds of a distribution is to be
expended on a particular resource property and if the current AIF
does not contain the disclosure required under Item 4.3 or 4.4, as
appropriate, of Form 44-101F1, or section 5.4 or 5.5, as
appropriate, of Form 51-102F2, for the property or that disclosure
is inadequate or incorrect due to changes, disclose the information
required under section 5.4 or 5.5 of Form 51-102F2.
Item 11: Significant Acquisitions and Significant Dispositions
11.1 Significant Acquisitions and Significant Dispositions
(1) Disclose
(a) any significant acquisition completed by the issuer or
any significant probable acquisition proposed by the issuer, for
which financial statements are required under Part 4 or 5 of the
National Instrument; and
(b) any significant disposition completed by the issuer
during the most recently completed financial year or the current
financial year for which
pro forma
financial statements are required under Part 6 of the National
Instrument.
(2) Include particulars of
(a) the nature of the assets acquired or disposed of or to be
acquired or disposed of;
(b) the actual or proposed date of each significant
acquisition or significant disposition;
(c) the consideration, both monetary and non-monetary, paid
or to be paid to or by the issuer;
(d) any material obligations that must be complied with to
keep any significant acquisition or significant disposition
agreement in good standing;
(e) the effect of the significant acquisition or significant
disposition on the operating results and financial position of the
issuer;
(f) any valuation opinion obtained within the last 12 months
required under Canadian securities legislation or Canadian
securities directions of a Canadian securities regulatory
authority or a requirement of a Canadian stock exchange to support
the value of the consideration received or paid by the issuer or
any of its subsidiaries for the assets, including the name of the
author, the date of the opinion, the assets to which the opinion
relates and the value attributed to the assets; and
(g) whether the transaction is with an insider, associate, or
affiliate of the issuer and if so, disclose the identity of the
other parties and the relationship of the other parties to the
issuer.
(3) Include the financial statements required under Part 4 of
National Instrument 44-101.
Item 12: Documents Incorporated by Reference
12.1 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference
(1) In addition to any other document that an issuer may choose to
incorporate by reference, specifically incorporate by reference in
the short form prospectus, by means of a statement in the short
form prospectus to that effect, the documents set forth below:
1. The issuer's current AIF, if it has one.
2. Material change reports, except confidential material change
reports, filed after the commencement of the issuer's current
financial year.
3. The comparative interim financial statements for the issuer's
most recently completed financial period for which the issuer
prepares interim financial statements that have been filed.
4. The comparative financial statements, together with the
accompanying report of the auditor, for the issuer's most recently
completed financial year for which annual financial statements
have been filed.
5. If, before the prospectus is filed, financial information about
the issuer for a financial period more recent that the period for
which financial statements are required under paragraphs 3 or 4 is
publicly disseminated by, or on behalf of, the issuer through news
release or otherwise, the content of the news release or public
communication.
6. MD&A for the annual comparative financial statements
referred to in paragraph 4.
7. MD&A relating to the issuer's interim financial statements
included in the short form prospectus.
8. Except as provided in Item 12.5, information circulars or, for
financial years beginning before January 1, 2004, if the issuer is
not required under securities legislation to prepare information
circulars, annual filings that, in each case, have been filed
after the commencement of the issuer's current financial year.
(2) In the statement incorporating the documents listed in
paragraph (1) by reference in a short form prospectus, clarify
that the documents are not incorporated by reference to the extent
their contents are modified or superseded by a statement contained
in the short form prospectus or in any other subsequently filed
document that is also incorporated by reference in the short form
prospectus.
(3) If the issuer
(a) has filed an AIF in a form of current annual report on
Form 10-K, Form 10-KSB or Form 20-F under the 1934 Act, as
permitted under section 3.4 of National Instrument 44-101 and
under NI 51-102;
(b) is required by subsection 4.1 (1) of NI 52-107 to provide
a reconciliation to Canadian GAAP; and
(c) has based the discussion in the MD&A that forms part
of the AIF on financial statements prepared in accordance with US
GAAP,
the issuer shall incorporate by reference a supplement which shall
restate, based on financial statements of the issuer prepared in
accordance with Canadian GAAP, those parts of the annual MD&A
that are based on financial statements prepared in accordance with
US GAAP which would read differently if they were based on
financial statements prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP.
INSTRUCTION
(1) Paragraph 3 of subsection (1), requires issuers to include
interim financial statements for only the most recently
completed three, six or nine month period. (See the definition
of "interim period" in National Instrument 44-101.) Issuers that
choose to incorporate additional interim financial statements
are reminded that subsection 10.3 of National Instrument 44-101
requires a comfort letter from an auditor to be delivered,
commenting on any unaudited financial statement included in the
short form prospectus.
(2) Paragraph 5 of subsection (1) requires issuers to
incorporate only the news release or other public communication
through which more recent financial information is released to
the public. However, if the financial statements from which the
information in the news release has been derived have been
filed, then the financial statements must be incorporated by
reference.
(3) Paragraph 6 of subsection (1) is a document that forms part
of or is incorporated by reference in an issuer's AIF.
(4) Any material incorporated by reference in a short form
prospectus is required under sections 10.2 and 10.3 of National
Instrument 44-101 to be filed with the short form prospectus
unless it has been previously filed.
12.2 Mandatory Incorporation by Reference of Future Documents
— State that the following documents, if filed by the issuer after
the date of the short form prospectus and before the termination of
the distribution, are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the
short form prospectus:
1. Material change reports, except confidential material change
reports.
2. Comparative interim financial statements.
3. Comparative financial statements for the issuer's most recently
completed financial year, together with the accompanying report of
the auditor.
4. Except as provided in Item 12.5, information circulars or, for
financial years beginning before January 1, 2004, if the issuer is
not required under securities legislation to prepare information
circulars, annual filings.
12.3 Exception for Guaranteed Securities
— Despite Items 12.1 and 12.2, paragraphs 3 and 4 of Item 12.1 (1)
do not apply to an issuer to which paragraph 1 or 2 of Item 13.1
applies.
12.4 Required Language
— State the following, with the first sentence in bold type and the
bracketed information completed:
"
Information has been incorporated by reference in this prospectus
from documents filed with securities commissions or similar
authorities in Canada.
Copies of the documents incorporated herein by reference may be
obtained on request without charge from the secretary of the issuer
at [insert complete address and telephone number]. [Insert if the
offering is made in Québec — "For the purpose of the Province of
Québec, this simplified prospectus contains information to be
completed by consulting the permanent information record. A copy of
the permanent information record may be obtained from the secretary
of the issuer at the above-mentioned address and telephone
number"]."
12.5 Exception for Certain Filings
(1) An issuer is not required to incorporate by reference in a
short form prospectus the disclosure required under securities
legislation in an information circular or annual filing of
(a) the repricing downward of options or freestanding stock
appreciation rights;
(b) the composition of the compensation committee of the
board of directors of an issuer and its report on executive
compensation; and
(c) a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the
issuer's cumulative total shareholder return on publicly traded
securities with the cumulative total return of a broad equity
market index or a published industry or line-of-business index or
other issuers.
(2) An issuer is not required to incorporate by reference in a
short form prospectus disclosure in an information circular of an
issuer's corporate governance practices, if that disclosure is in
the information circular in order to comply with disclosure
requirements of an exchange or other market on which the issuer's
securities trade.
12.6 List of Material Change Reports
— List the material change reports filed by the issuer since the
commencement of the issuer's current financial year. In each case,
provide the date of filing and a brief description of the material
change.
12.7 Reverse Take-Overs
— If an issuer has been involved in a business combination accounted
for as a reverse take-over bid, financial statements of the legal
subsidiary, as that term is used in the Handbook, shall be
incorporated by reference in the short form prospectus.
Item 13: Issues of Guaranteed Securities
13.1 Issuer Disclosure
(1) If a credit supporter has provided a guarantee or alternative
credit support to the issuer for all or substantially all of the
payments to be made under the securities to be distributed,
provide the following disclosure about the issuer:
1. If the issuer is a wholly owned subsidiary of the credit
supporter, has no operations or only minimal operations that are
independent of the credit supporter and is an entity that
functions essentially as a special purpose division of the credit
supporter, a statement that the financial results of the issuer
are included in the consolidated financial results of the credit
supporter.
2. If the issuer is a wholly owned subsidiary of the credit
supporter but has more than minimal operations that are
independent of the credit supporter, a summary of financial
information relating to the issuer's operations in a note to the
most recent audited annual financial statements of the credit
supporter included in the short form prospectus.
3. If the issuer is not a wholly owned subsidiary of the credit
supporter, a full narrative description of the business of the
issuer.
(2) If paragraph 3 of paragraph (1) applies to an issuer and the
issuer does not have a current AIF that is incorporated by
reference into the short form prospectus, include the required
description either
(a) directly, or
(b) by incorporating by reference
(i)  if the issuer is a reporting issuer and has an annual
information form that has been prepared in compliance with and
filed under Canadian securities legislation of a jurisdiction and
would be a current AIF if that annual information form had been
filed under National Instrument 44-101, the issuer's annual
information form and all other documents required to be
incorporated by reference in a short form prospectus under Item
12, or
(ii)  if clause (i) is not applicable and the issuer has a
class of securities registered under section 12 (b) or 12 (g) of
the 1934 Act or is required to file reports under section 15 (d)
of the 1934 Act, the issuer's latest annual report on Form 10-K or
Form 20-F filed with the SEC under the 1934 Act or any other
document that would be required to be incorporated by reference in
a Form S-3 or Form F-3 registration statement filed under the 1933
Act if the issuer were registering on Form S-3 or Form F-3 the
securities distributed under the short form prospectus.
INSTRUCTION
For purposes of Item 13.1, an issuer is considered to be a wholly
owned subsidiary of the credit supporter, if the credit supporter
owns voting securities representing 96 per cent or more of the
votes attached to the outstanding voting securities of the issuer.
13.2 Credit Supporter Disclosure
— If a credit supporter has provided a guarantee or alternative
credit support for all or substantially all of the payments to be
made under the securities being distributed, include statements by
the credit supporter providing disclosure about the credit supporter
by complying with the following:
1. If the credit supporter is a reporting issuer and has a current
AIF or an annual information form that has been prepared in
compliance with and filed under Canadian securities legislation of
a jurisdiction and would be a current AIF if that annual
information form had been filed under National Instrument 44-101,
incorporating by reference into the short form prospectus the
credit supporter's annual information form and all other documents
that would be required to be incorporated by reference under Item
12 if the credit supporter were the issuer of the securities.
2. If paragraph 1 is not applicable and the credit supporter has a
class of securities registered under section 12 (b) or 12 (g) of
the 1934 Act or is required to file reports under section 15 (d)
of the 1934 Act, incorporating by reference into the short form
prospectus all documents that would be required to be incorporated
by reference in a Form S-3 or Form F-3 registration statement
filed under the 1933 Act if the securities distributed under the
short form prospectus were being registered on Form S-3 or Form
F-3.
3. If neither paragraph 1 nor paragraph 2 applies to the credit
supporter, providing directly in the short form prospectus the
same disclosure that would be contained in the short form
prospectus through the incorporation by reference of the documents
referred to in Item 12.1 if the credit supporter were the issuer
of the securities and those documents had been prepared by the
credit supporter.
4. Providing such other information about the credit supporter as
is necessary to provide full, true and plain disclosure of all
material facts concerning the securities to be distributed.
INSTRUCTION
Documents incorporated by reference are required under sections
8.1 and 8.2 of National Instrument 44-101 to be filed with the
short form prospectus unless they have been previously filed.
Item 14: Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter
14.1 Relationship between Issuer or Selling Securityholder and
Underwriter
— If the issuer or selling securityholder is a connected issuer of
an underwriter of the distribution, or if the issuer or selling
securityholder is also an underwriter,
(a) until Multilateral Instrument 33-105 Underwriting
Conflicts comes into force, provide the disclosure required by
Item 15 of Appendix B of National Policy Statement No. 47 Prompt
Offering Qualification System as that National Policy read
immediately before it was revoked; and
(b) after Multilateral Instrument 33-105 comes into force,
comply with the requirements of that Multilateral Instrument.
Item 15: Interest of Experts
15.1 Interest of Experts
(1) Disclose all direct or indirect interests in the property of
the issuer or of an associated party or affiliate of the issuer
received or to be received by a person or company whose profession
or business gives authority to a statement made by the person or
company and who is named in a short form prospectus or a document
specifically incorporated by reference in a short form prospectus
as having prepared or certified a part of that document or a
report or valuation described in a short form prospectus or in a
document specifically incorporated by reference into a short form
prospectus.
(2) Disclose the beneficial ownership, direct or indirect, by a
person or company referred to in paragraph (1) of any securities
of the issuer or any associated party or affiliate of the issuer.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (2), if ownership is less than
one per cent, a general statement to that effect shall be
sufficient.
(4) If a person, or a director, officer or employee of a person or
company, referred to in paragraph (1) is or is expected to be
elected, appointed or employed as a director, officer or employee
of the issuer or of any associated party or affiliate of the
issuer, disclose the fact or expectation.
Item 16: Promoters
16.1 Promoters
(1) For a person or company that is, or has been within the two
years immediately preceding the date of the preliminary short form
prospectus, a promoter of the issuer or of a subsidiary of the
issuer state
(a) the person or company's name;
(b) the number and percentage of each class of voting
securities of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries beneficially
owned, directly or indirectly, or over which control is exercised
by the person or company;
(c) the nature and amount of anything of value, including
money, property, contracts, options or rights of any kind received
or to be received by the promoter or a subsidiary of the promoter,
directly or indirectly, from the issuer or from a subsidiary of
the issuer, and the nature and amount of any assets, services or
other consideration therefor received or to be received by the
issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer; and
(d) for an asset acquired within the two years before the
date of the preliminary short form prospectus or thereafter, or to
be acquired, by the issuer or by a subsidiary of the issuer from a
promoter or a subsidiary of a promoter
(i)  the consideration paid or to be paid for the asset and
the method by which the consideration has been or will be
determined,
(ii)  the person or company making the determination referred
to in subparagraph (i) and the person or company's relationship
with the issuer, the promoter, or an affiliate of the issuer or of
the promoter, and
(iii)  the date that the asset was acquired by the promoter
and the cost of the asset to the promoter.
(2) If a promoter or past promoter referred to in paragraph (1)
has been a director, officer or promoter of any person or company
during the 10 years ending on the date of the preliminary short
form prospectus that
(a) was the subject of a cease trade or similar order, or an
order that denied the person or company access to any exemptions
under Canadian securities legislation, for a period of more than
30 consecutive days, state the fact and describe the basis on
which the order was made and whether the order is still in effect;
or
(b) became bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation
relating to bankruptcy or insolvency or been subject to or
instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with
creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed
to hold its assets, state the fact.
(3) Describe the penalties or sanctions imposed and the grounds on
which they were imposed or the terms of the settlement agreement
and the circumstances that gave rise to the settlement agreement,
if a promoter or past promoter referred to in paragraph (1) has
(a) been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a
court relating to Canadian securities legislation or by a Canadian
securities regulatory authority or has entered into a settlement
agreement with a Canadian securities regulatory authority; or
(b) been subject to any other penalties or sanctions imposed
by a court or regulatory body that would be likely to be
considered important to a reasonable investor in making an
investment decision.
(4) Despite paragraph (3), no disclosure is required of a
settlement agreement entered into before the date National
Instrument 44-101 came into force unless the disclosure would
likely be considered important to a reasonable investor in making
an investment decision.
(5) If a promoter or past promoter referred to in paragraph (1)
has, within the 10 years before the date of the preliminary short
form prospectus, become bankrupt, made a proposal under any
legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or was subject
to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with
creditors, or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee
appointed to hold the assets of the promoter, state the fact.
Item 17: Risk Factors
17.1 Risk Factors
— Describe the factors material to the issuer that a reasonable
investor would consider relevant to an investment in the securities
being distributed.
Item 18: Other Material Facts
18.1 Other Material Facts
— Give particulars of any material facts about the securities being
distributed that are not disclosed under the preceding items or in
the documents incorporated by reference into the short form
prospectus and are necessary in order for the short form prospectus
to contain full, true and plain disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities to be distributed.
Item 19: Statutory Rights of Withdrawal and Rescission
19.1 General
— Include a statement in substantially the following form, with the
bracketed information completed:
"Securities legislation in [certain of the provinces [and
territories] of Canada/the Province of [insert name of local
jurisdiction, if applicable] provides purchasers with the right to
withdraw from an agreement to purchase securities. This right may be
exercised within two business days after receipt or deemed receipt
of a prospectus and any amendment. [In several of the
provinces/provinces and territories,] [T/t]he securities legislation
further provides a purchaser with remedies for rescission [or %, in
some jurisdictions,] damages] if the prospectus and any amendment
contains a misrepresentation or is not delivered to the purchaser,
provided that the remedies for rescission [or damages] are exercised
by the purchaser within the time limit prescribed by the securities
legislation of the purchaser's province [or territory]. The
purchaser should refer to any applicable provisions of the
securities legislation of the purchaser's province [or territory]
for the particulars of these rights or consult with a legal
adviser."
19.2 Non-fixed Price Offerings
— In the case of a non-fixed price offering, replace, if applicable
in the jurisdiction in which the short form prospectus is filed, the
second sentence in the legend in Item 19.1 with a statement in
substantially the following form:
"This right may only be exercised within two business days after
receipt or deemed receipt of a prospectus and any amendment,
irrespective of the determination at a later date of the purchase
price of the securities distributed."
Item 20: Reconciliation to Canadian GAAP
20.1 Reconciliation to Canadian GAAP
— If the short form prospectus includes financial statements not
prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP and the short form
prospectus does not include a reconciliation to Canadian GAAP,
include any reconciliation to Canadian GAAP required under NI
52-107.
Item 21: Certificates
21.1 Officers, Directors and Promoters
— Include a certificate in the following form signed by
(a) the chief executive officer and the chief financial
officer or, if no such officers have been appointed, a person
acting on behalf of the issuer in a capacity similar to a chief
executive officer and a person acting on behalf of the issuer in a
capacity similar to that of a chief financial officer;
(b) on behalf of the board of directors of the issuer, any
two directors of the issuer duly authorized to sign, other than
the persons referred to in paragraph (a), and
(c) any person or company who is a promoter of the issuer:
"This short form prospectus, together with the documents
incorporated herein by reference, constitutes full, true and plain
disclosure of all material facts relating to the securities
offered by this prospectus as required by the securities
legislation of [insert name of each jurisdiction in which
qualified]. [Insert if offering made in Québec — "For the purpose
of the Province of Québec, this simplified prospectus, as
supplemented by the permanent information record, contains no
misrepresentation that is likely to affect the value or the market
price of the securities to be distributed."]"
21.2 Underwriters
— If there is an underwriter, include a certificate in the following
form signed by the underwriter or underwriters who, with respect to
the securities being distributed, are in a contractual relationship
with the issuer or selling securityholders:
"To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, this short
form prospectus, together with the documents incorporated herein by
reference, constitutes full, true and plain disclosure of all
material facts relating to the securities offered by this prospectus
as required by the securities legislation of [insert name of each
jurisdiction in which qualified]. [Insert if offering made in Québec
— "For the purpose of the Province of Québec, to our knowledge, this
simplified prospectus, as supplemented by the permanent information
record, contains no misrepresentation that is likely to affect the
value or the market price of the securities to be distributed."]"
21.3 Related Credit Supporters
— If disclosure concerning a credit supporter is prescribed by Item
13.2 and the credit supporter is a related credit supporter, an
issuer shall include a certificate of the related credit supporter
in the form required in Item 21.1 signed by
(a) the chief executive officer and the chief financial
officer or, if no such officers have been appointed, a person
acting on behalf of the related credit supporter in a capacity
similar to a chief executive officer and a person acting on behalf
of the related credit supporter in a capacity similar to that of a
chief financial officer; and
(b) on behalf of the board of directors of the related credit
supporter, any two directors of the related credit supporter duly
authorized to sign, other than the persons referred to in
paragraph (a).
21.4 Amendments
(1) Include in an amendment to a short form prospectus that does
not restate the short form prospectus the certificates required
under Items 21.1, 21.2 and, if applicable, Item 21.3 with the
reference in each certificate to "this short form prospectus"
omitted and replaced by "the short form prospectus dated [insert
date] as amended by this amendment".
(2) Include in an amended and restated short form prospectus the
certificates required under Items 21.1, 21.2 and, if applicable,
Item 21.3 with the reference in each certificate to "this short
form prospectus" omitted and replaced by "this amended and
restated short form prospectus".
[Provisions of the
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 184]
