"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Environmental Management Act
Municipal Sewage Regulation
B.C. Reg. 129/99
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Regulation
April 20, 2012
Section 1
January 14, 2010
Section 2
October 29, 2009
Section 3
October 29, 2009
Section 25
January 14, 2010
Appendix 1 Schedule 2
January 14, 2010
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 87/2012, effective April 20,
2012.
B.C. Reg. 129/99
O.C. 507/99
Deposited April 23, 1999
effective July 15, 1999
Environmental Management Act
Municipal Sewage Regulation
Part 1 - Interpretation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Environmental Management Act
;
"aquifer"
includes any soil or rock formation that has sufficient porosity
and water yielding ability to permit the extraction or injection
of water at rates greater than or equal to 5 L/minute;
"average dry weather flow"
or
"ADWF"
means the daily municipal sewage flow to a sewage facility that
occurs after an extended period of dry weather such that the
inflow and infiltration has been minimized to the greatest extent
practicable and is calculated by dividing the total flow to the
sewage facility during the dry weather period by the number of
days in that period;
"biosolids"
means inorganic or organic solid residuals from a sewage facility,
or septic tank sludge, resulting from a municipal sewage treatment
process which has been sufficiently treated to reduce vector
attraction and pathogen densities, such that it can be
beneficially recycled;
"BOD
5
"
means the carbonaceous 5-day biochemical oxygen demand;
"continuous monitoring"
means a communications system connecting a sewage facility to the
operator such that
(a) operating conditions of the facility are continuously
monitored and provide an alarm if the operating conditions deviate
from established operating conditions, and
(b) operating conditions may be remotely or by service call
adjusted to within normal efficient operating range within 24
hours of any alarm;
"contributory population equivalent"
means the number of persons and equivalent commercial and
industrial contribution connected to the municipal sewage
collection system based on the most current census data;
"dilution ratio"
means
(a) if the 2-year return period 7-day low flow is the
magnitude of flow such that the average flow for 7 consecutive
days is expected to be less than this magnitude once in any 2 year
period, based on statistical analysis of observed stream flow, a
ratio calculated by dividing 2-year return period 7-day low flow
in the receiving stream by the maximum weekly (7 day) effluent
flow, or
(b) if sufficient data are not available to calculate the
2-year return period 7-day low flow or the discharge is to a lake
or marine water, a ratio calculated using a method and data that
are satisfactory to a director;
"discharge"
means the total amount of a solid, liquid or gaseous waste
introduced into the environment from works, including effluent and
reclaimed water;
"discharger"
means an individual or corporation
(a) exempt under Part 2 from section 6 (2) and (3) of the Act
for the purposes of discharge, or
(b) authorized under this regulation or under the Act to
discharge;
"disinfection"
means the destruction, inactivation or removal of pathogenic
microorganisms by any means;
"domestic sewage"
means human excrement, water borne human excretion or the
water-carried wastes from liquid or non-liquid culinary purposes,
washing, cleansing, laundering, food processing or ice production;
"effluent"
means the liquid resulting from the treatment of municipal sewage;
"embayed marine waters"
means
(a) marine waters located on the shore side of a line up to 6
km long drawn between any two points on a continuous coastline, or
located so that the maximum width of sea access by any route is
less than 1.5 km wide, or
(b) marine waters in which flushing action is considered to
be inadequate by a director;
"facility"
means any land, building or structure and includes any machinery,
equipment, device, tank, system or other work;
"filtration"
, in the schedules, means the removal of solid particles from an
effluent by passing the effluent through a filtering medium such
as sand, membrane, anthracite, or any other comparable filter
medium or combination of filter media, or any physical barrier or
device or septum onto which the solids are deposited;
"groundwater"
means subsurface water at or below a water table in fully
saturated geologic materials and formations;
"inflow and infiltration"
or
"I/I"
means water that enters the sanitary sewer system from direct
stormwater connection (inflow) or indirectly through the land
(infiltration), or both;
"irrigation"
, in the schedules, means the application of reclaimed water at
agricultural rates for the beneficial use of a crop or vegetation;
"known"
means
(a) identified by or made available from the minister's
ministry, or
(b) otherwise identified by or made available by a director
at least 60 days before registration of a discharge in accordance
with section 3;
"land"
means the solid part of the earth's surface and includes the
foreshore and land covered by water;
"m
3
/d"
means cubic metres per day;
"median"
means the middle measure in an ordered distribution;
"mg/L"
means milligrams per litre;
"municipal sewage"
means domestic sewage, wastewater or municipal liquid waste
originating primarily from residences, but may include
contributions from
(a) holding tanks in recreational vehicles, boats and
houseboats,
(b) commercial, institutional and industrial sources, and
(c) inflow and infiltration;
"municipal sewage collection system"
means a conveyance system owned, operated and maintained by a
municipality or regional district for the purpose of transporting
municipal sewage to a sewage facility, but does not include sewage
facilities;
"NTU"
means nephelometric turbidity unit;
"open marine waters"
means ocean waters other than embayed marine waters or water for
which, in the opinion of a director, the flushing action is
considered adequate;
"primary treatment"
means any form of treatment, excluding dilution, that consistently
produces an effluent quality with a BOD
5
not exceeding 130 mg/L and TSS not exceeding 130 mg/L;
"qualified professional"
means an applied scientist or technologist specializing in a
particular applied science or technology including, but not
necessarily limited to, agrology, biology, chemistry, engineering,
geology, or hydrogeology and
(a) who is registered in British Columbia with their
appropriate professional organization, acting under that
association's Code of Ethics and subject to disciplinary action by
that association, and
(b) who, through suitable education, experience,
accreditation and knowledge, may be reasonably relied on to
provide advice within their area of expertise;
"reclaimed water"
means effluent from a sewage facility that is suitable for a
direct designated water use or a controlled use;
"secondary treatment"
means any form of treatment, excluding dilution, that consistently
produces an effluent quality with a BOD
5
not exceeding 45 mg/L and TSS not exceeding 45 mg/L, except for
lagoon systems for which the effluent quality is not to exceed a
BOD
5
of 45 mg/L and a TSS of 60 mg/L;
"septic tank"
means a watertight vessel into which municipal sewage is
continually conveyed such that solids within the municipal sewage
settle, anaerobic digestion of organic materials occurs and an
effluent is discharged;
"sewage facility"
means any facility or work that gathers, treats, transports,
stores, utilizes or discharges municipal sewage or reclaimed
water;
"schedules"
means the schedules to this regulation;
"stormwater"
means runoff from rainfall, snow or snowmelt;
"TSS"
means total suspended solids or non-filterable residue;
"unsaturated soil"
, in Schedule 4, means the soil between the land surface and the
water table where the soil pore spaces contain water at less than
atmospheric pressure, as well as air and other gases;
"water quality guidelines"
means as published by the authority of the minister
(a) the most recent "Water Quality Objectives" if established
for a specific body of water, or
(b) if no "Water Quality Objectives" have been established
for the specific body of water in question, the "Approved and
Working Water Quality Criteria", or
(c) any other water quality standard approved by the
minister;
"water table"
means the surface along which the fluid pressure is atmospheric
and below which the fluid pressure is greater than atmospheric;
"water well"
means a well supplying drinking water for human consumption.
[am. B.C. Regs. 109/2002, s. 1; 321/2004, s. 31 (b) to (e);
305/2007, s. 1; 4/2010, s. 3.]
Part 2 - Exemption under Certain Conditions from Section 6
(2) and (3) of the Act for Discharge
Exemption
2
(1)  A person is exempt from section 6 (2) and (3) of the Act
for the purposes of discharge if the person
(a) registers under section 3,
(b) pays when due, as though registration under section 3 was
a permit, an application fee calculated under section 2 of B.C.
Reg. 299/92, the Permit Fees Regulation,
(i)  on applying for registration under section 3, and
(ii)  on making a notification under condition 2 in Schedule
1,
(c) pays on the effective date of registration under section
3 and on each anniversary thereafter, as though registration under
section 3 was a permit, an annual fee calculated under section 3
of B.C. Reg. 299/92, the Permit Fees Regulation, on the quality
and quantity of the discharge specified under section 3,
(d) subject to section 17, complies with Parts 3 to 7, and
(e) subject to section 17, complies with the conditions in
Schedule 1.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply if the discharge is
(a) authorized by a permit, approval, order or operational
certificate first issued before subsection (1) comes into force,
(b) authorized by an operational certificate or a waste
management plan approved by the minister,
(c) authorized or prohibited by an order under the Act, or
(d) a discharge of effluent or an increase in a maximum daily
flow of discharge to
(i)  subject to subsection (3), Shuswap Lake, or
(ii)  White Lake or the portion of Mara Lake in the Columbia
Shuswap Regional District.
(3)  For certainty, subsection (2) (d) (i) does not affect
(a) the exemption from section 6 (2) and (3) of the Act of a
discharger that registered with a director in relation to the
discharge of effluent to Shuswap Lake before November 17, 2005, or
(b) the increase in the maximum daily flow of discharge to
Shuswap Lake of a discharger who provided notification in relation
to that increase in the 30 days immediately before November 17,
2005.
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (d) and (g); 252/2009, s. 1.]
Registration under section 2 for an exemption
3
(1)  Registration may not be made under subsection (2) if a
waste management plan authorizes the proposed discharge.
(2)  A person may register with a director by providing, in a
form acceptable to the director, the following information:
(a) the full legal name and address of the person;
(b) the name of the local contact and local address of the
person;
(c) the name of the operator of the sewage facility;
(d) the address, legal description or name and latitude and
longitude of the location of the sewage facility and of the
discharge;
(e) the registered owner of the land on which the sewage
facility is to be located;
(f) the type of discharge including a description of the
sewage facility;
(g) the maximum daily flow of the discharge that the person
will not exceed;
(h) the manner in which the person will meet the standards
set out in Schedules 2 to 5;
(i) the previous waste management permit number, if
applicable;
(j) the intended commencement date of the discharge;
(k) any other relevant information requested by the director;
(l) any other relevant information the person wishes to
provide.
(3)  Registration under this section takes effect on the date
registration under subsection (2) is received by a director.
(4) to (6)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 252/2009, s. 2.]
[en. B.C. Reg. 305/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 252/2009, s. 2.]
Part 3 - Application of Parts 4 to 8
Application of Parts 4 to 8
4
Despite section 2, Parts 4 to 8 apply to a discharge unless that
discharge is
(a) authorized by a permit, approval, order or operational
certificate first issued before this regulation comes into force,
(b) authorized by an operational certificate or a waste
management plan approved by the minister, or
(c) authorized or prohibited by an order under the Act.
Part 4 - Standards for Effluent Reuse and Discharges to
the Environment
Initial dilution zone: water bodies
5
(1)  If effluent is discharged into a water body, the initial
dilution zone is the 3 dimensional zone around the point of
discharge where mixing of the effluent and the receiving water
occurs.
(2)  For a lake or marine body of water, the following,
measured from the point of discharge and from the mean low water
mark, apply for purposes of calculating the initial dilution zone:
(a) the height is the distance from the bed to surface of the
water body;
(b) the radius is either
(i)  100 m, or
(ii)  25% of the width of the body of water, whichever is
less.
(3)  For a stream or estuary, the following, measured from
the point of discharge and from the mean low water mark, apply for
purposes of calculating the initial dilution zone:
(a) the height is the distance from the bed to the surface of
the water body;
(b) the width, perpendicular to the path of the stream, is
the lesser of
(i)  100 m, or
(ii)  25% of the width of the stream or estuary;
(c) the length, parallel to the path of the stream, is the
distance between a point 100 m upstream and a point, which is the
lesser of
(i)  100 m downstream, or
(ii)  a distance downstream at which the width of the
effluent plume equals the width determined under paragraph (b).
(4)  In embayed marine waters, estuaries and lakes the
initial dilution zone must not extend closer to shore than the
mean low water mark.
(5)  In open marine waters, the edge of the initial dilution
zone must be located outside of the shallow water zone in which
surf will form along the shore.
(6)  The initial dilution zone must be located at least 300 m
away from sensitive areas such as recreational areas, shellfish
areas, domestic water intakes, agricultural water intakes, or any
other sensitive area requiring protection as identified by a
director.
(7)  Initial dilution zones may overlap only when the
combined effects do not cause water quality parameters, outside
the combined initial dilution zone, to exceed any known water
quality guidelines.
(8)  For discharges from an outfall diffuser the radius
referred to in subsection (2) (b) (i) may be measured from the
first and last diffuser ports.
(9)  In this section:
"estuary"
means that portion of a receiving water lying below the farthest
point upstream of detectable changes in water movement or
chemistry through mixing of fresh and salt water and due to tidal
action;
"diffuser"
means a section of pipe that diffuses the effluent into a water
body through a series of orifices;
"mean low water mark"
means
(a) for marine waters, the datum provided on the most
recently published marine chart published by the Canadian
Hydrographic Service for the location,
(b) for lakes, the point of contact between the water body's
surface and the shore at the time when the water surface is at its
average annual minimum elevation based on the last 10 years of
records, and
(c) for streams and rivers, the point of contact between the
water body's surface and the shore during 2-year return period
7-day flow.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c).]
Initial dilution zone: ground
6
(1)  If effluent is discharged to ground, the initial
dilution zone is the 3 dimensional subsurface zone where mixing of
the effluent and groundwater occurs.
(2)  The boundary of the groundwater initial dilution zone is
the vertical extension into the ground of the property boundaries
of the land into which the ground discharge is occurring.
Effluent quality
7
(1)  A person must not discharge effluent or provide
reclaimed water that exceeds the effluent quality limits for use
as reclaimed water or for discharge to the environment set out in
Schedules 2 to 5.
(2)  Unless specifically stated otherwise, the effluent
quality limits specified in Schedules 2 to 5 are maximum values
not to be exceeded.
Effluent disinfection
8
(1)  If disinfecting the effluent is required to ensure that
water quality parameters for domestic or agricultural water
extraction, recreational uses or aquatic food production meet any
known water quality guidelines, a person must not discharge the
effluent unless the effluent is disinfected.
(2)  A person must not use chlorine to disinfect an effluent
which is to be discharged to surface water unless the effluent is
dechlorinated before discharge.
(3)  If dechlorination is required in accordance with
subsection (2) or (7), the discharger must dechlorinate the
effluent to reduce the chlorine residual below 0.01 mg/L total
residual chlorine before discharge.
(4)  The discharger must review and assess alternative
disinfection methods before selecting the chlorination and
dechlorination disinfection option.
(5)  If disinfection is required under subsection (1), the
median coliform values for 7 consecutive daily tests and any
single value test must be less than the value specified in
Schedules 2 to 4.
(6)  A person must not discharge effluent to the ground
within 300 m upgradient of, or within the zone of influence of, a
water well, unless the effluent has been disinfected.
(7)  For the purposes of subsection (6), chlorination must
not be used unless
(a) dechlorination is provided,
(b) the water quality in the water well will not be adversely
impacted, and
(c) written permission is obtained from a director.
(8)  In this section,
"zone of influence"
means the zone around a water well that in the opinion of a
qualified professional supplies water to the well.
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (c); 305/2007, s. 3.]
Toxicity
9
(1)  A person must not discharge effluent, unless
(a) the discharge passes a 96 hour LC50 bioassay test as
defined by Environment Canada's Biological Test Method: Reference
Method for Determining Acute Lethality of Effluents to Rainbow
Trout, Reference Method, EPS 1/RM/13, or
(b) if the discharge fails a bioassay test described in
paragraph (a) that was conducted at a "Regular" time as specified
in Schedule 6, Table 3, the discharge passes that test as
conducted as a follow up under Column 5 in Schedule 6, Table 3.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply if
(a) the discharge is to ground,
(b) the discharge quality meets a maximum BOD
5
not exceeding 10 mg/L and a maximum TSS not exceeding 10 mg/L,
(c) the discharge does not exceed a maximum daily flow of 5
000 m
3
/d and the discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of a
director that the discharge does not adversely affect the
receiving environment,
(d) the discharge is to open marine waters,
(e) the discharge is diluted such that at the outside
boundary of the initial dilution zone the dilution ratio exceeds
100:1 and the discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of a
director that the discharge does not adversely affect the
receiving environment,
(f) reclaimed water is being provided or used in accordance
with this regulation, or
(g) the discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of a
director that the discharge does not adversely affect the
receiving environment.
(3)  If subsection (1) applies, a person must not discharge
effluent unless the discharge is monitored for toxicity in
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 6, Table 3.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c).]
Use of reclaimed water
10
(1)  A person must not provide or use reclaimed water unless
(a) the standards for use of reclaimed water as set out in
Schedule 2 are met,
(b) use is limited in accordance with Schedule 2 for
unrestricted public access and restricted public access,
(c) for systems without seasonal storage, emergency storage
is provided so that
(i)  if the reclaimed water does not meet the standards
required, the flow can be diverted until such time as the
standards are met and designated water uses can continue, and
(ii)  a minimum 20 days of emergency storage is provided, and
(d) an environmental impact study has been conducted in
accordance with condition 8 in Schedule 1.
(2)  A person providing or using reclaimed water must, in
addition to any seasonal storage for the reclaimed water that is
provided,
(a) provide an alternative method of disposing of the
reclaimed water and describe that method in the operating plan
under section 16, or
(b) satisfy a director that no alternative method described
in paragraph (a) is required to assure public health protection
and treatment reliability.
(3)  Despite subsection (1) (c) (ii), and provided that the
treatment processes are built with multiple units capable of
meeting the reclaimed water standard with one unit not in
operation, emergency storage may be reduced to a minimum of 2
days.
(4)  If the required emergency storage required by subsection
(1) (c) is temporarily not available, the discharger must
(a) divert the reclaimed water to a disposal method which
complies with this regulation, and
(b) if the disposal method is to ground and the reclaimed
water meets the unrestricted public access standards, the
reclaimed water may be discharged to ground provided the time of
subsurface travel before a surface discharge is not less than 2
days.
(5)  The discharger must ensure that a provider of reclaimed
water is prohibited from using any dual distribution system to
convey reclaimed water unless the distribution system incorporates
design, construction, maintenance and inspection safeguards to
prevent cross connections.
(6)  In subsection (5),
"dual distribution system"
means a water distribution system that distributes 2 grades of
water to the same service area; one potable and the other
non-potable.
(7)  No person may provide for the use of reclaimed water
unless specifically authorized
(a) in writing by the local health authority having
jurisdiction, or
(b) under a local service area bylaw under which the
municipality or a private corporation under contract to the
municipality assumes the responsibility for ensuring compliance
with this regulation and that proper operation and maintenance
will be carried out.
(8)  For the unrestricted public access category, a person
must not be a provider of reclaimed water unless the person
(a) develops, to the satisfaction of a director, user
information and communication materials related to the use of
reclaimed water, and
(b) provides annually to all users copies of the materials
required by paragraph (a).
(9)  Methods of treatment for reclaimed water other than
those included in this regulation and their reliability features
may be accepted by a director if the discharger demonstrates to
the satisfaction of the director that the methods of treatment and
reliability features will assure an equal degree of treatment,
public health protection and treatment reliability.
(10)  Initial dilution zones are not applicable to reclaimed
water used for stream augmentation, creating impoundments,
maintaining wetlands or marshes or for emergency disposal to
ground unless a standard specified under condition 4 in Schedule 1
makes them applicable.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c) and (h).]
Discharges to water
11
(1)  A person must not introduce effluent to water unless
(a) the effluent quality standards for discharges to water as
set out in Schedule 3 or 5 are met, and
(b) an environmental impact study has been conducted in
accordance with condition 8 in Schedule 1.
(2)  A person must not introduce effluent to a water body
identified in Schedule 5 as areas of prohibited discharge.
Discharges to ground
12
A person must not introduce effluent to ground unless
(a) the effluent quality standards for discharges to ground
as set out in Schedule 4 or 5 are met, and
(b) an environmental impact study has been conducted in
accordance with condition 8 in Schedule 1.
Advanced treatment
13
(1)  If environmental impact studies set out in condition 8
in Schedule 1 indicate the need for more stringent standards for
the specified effluent quality parameters or for additional
parameters in order to protect human health and the environment,
the discharger may be required by a director in writing to
(a) meet more stringent or additional standards,
(b) provide advanced treatment beyond that specified in
Schedules 2 to 5, or
(c) meet mass loading limits specified by the director.
(2)  For introduction of effluent to the water bodies and
above aquifer areas identified in Schedule 5, the discharger must
ensure that the requirements for advanced treatment are met.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (e) and (i).]
Part 5 - Design and Construction of Sewage Facilities
General
14
(1)  Release of a discharge is prohibited, unless the
discharger ensures that
(a) the design of a sewage facility registered under section
3 is capable of consistently meeting the requirements of this
regulation,
(b) the flow calculation, facility design and the inspection
necessary to ensure that the construction methods, materials and
constructed facilities meet the design criteria are undertaken by
a qualified professional who has expertise in the particular
aspect of the design,
(c) a copy of drawings are certified correct and sealed by a
qualified professional, and
(d) a copy of the drawings required in subsection (1) (c) are
retained by the discharger for inspection by a director at any
time.
(2)  The design of a municipal sewage collection system is
exempt from this Part.
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (c); 305/2007, s. 4.]
Design procedure: large municipality
15
In addition to the requirements of section 14, for discharges for
which the contributory population equivalent to the sewage
facility is greater than 5 000 persons, the discharger must
undertake a staged approach to design as follows:
(a) concept level planning;
(b) preliminary engineering;
(c) detailed design.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (j).]
Part 6 - Management and Operations
General
16
(1)  A person must not introduce a discharge to the
environment, unless
(a) the discharger, at least 90 days before any construction
commences, develops an operating plan for any sewage facility,
(b) the operating plan referred to in subsection (1) (a) is
prepared by a qualified professional who
(i)  is familiar with the facility, and
(ii)  has expertise with respect to the proper operation of
the facility, and
(c) the operating plan details the requirements for all of
the following:
(i)  proper operation and maintenance of sewage facilities;
(ii)  for reclaimed water use on vegetation, the maximum
application rate based on agrology studies for the vegetation to
which the reclaimed water is applied;
(iii)  emergency procedures;
(iv)  facility monitoring;
(v)  staff education;
(vi)  staff certification, and
is retained by the discharger, for inspection by a director at any
time.
(2)  The qualified professional responsible for the design of
the sewage facilities identified in a plan prepared in accordance
with subsection (1) must make a signed statement that the
operating plan is adequate for the design.
(3)  This section does not apply to a municipal sewage
collection system.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c).]
Commissioning new and upgraded sewage facilities
17
(1)  On completion of the construction or upgrading of a
sewage facility, a commissioning period is allowed during which it
is not required that a discharge by the sewage facility comply
with the standards set out in Schedules 2 to 5.
(2)  Subsection (1) only applies if
(a) the commissioning period does not exceed 3 months,
(b) no adverse environmental impacts occur as a result of the
discharge, and
(c) additional monitoring is undertaken, if required by a
director.
(3)  Despite subsection (2) (a), the allowable commissioning
period may be extended by a director in writing, if the discharger
(a) demonstrates, based on the nature of the receiving
environment or the discharge, that no adverse environmental
impacts are likely to occur, and
(b) undertakes additional monitoring, if required by the
director.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c), (e) and (k).]
Maintenance of sewage facilities
18
(1)  A person must not introduce a discharge to the
environment, unless the person
(a) inspects the sewage facility regularly,
(b) maintains the sewage facility in good working order, and
(c) notifies a director immediately of any malfunction of
these works and any condition which results or may result in the
discharge exceeding the standards set out in Schedules 2 to 5.
(2)  In addition to subsection (1) and to ensure the outfall
is operating as designed, the discharger must have any outfall
associated with the discharge inspected by a qualified person once
every 5 years or at a frequency specified by a director in
writing.
(3)  The outfall inspection report required by subsection (2)
must be retained by the discharger for inspection by a director at
any time.
(4)  Bypass of sewage facilities for the purpose of scheduled
maintenance is prohibited unless
(a) the maintenance cannot be reasonably undertaken without a
bypass occurring,
(b) the discharger notifies a director at least 30 days
before the planned bypass,
(c) the discharger obtains written authorization from a
director for the bypass before it commences, and
(d) the discharger complies with any conditions imposed by a
director in giving an authorization under paragraph (c).
(5)  All unauthorized bypasses, emergency overflows and
spills must be reported in accordance with B.C. Reg. 263/90, the
Spill Reporting Regulation.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c).]
Municipal sewage connection to industrial sewer system
19
This regulation does not apply to the release of municipal sewage
to an industrial sewer system if
(a) discharge from the industrial sewer system to the
receiving environment is otherwise authorized by a permit or
approval issued, or a regulation made, under the Act, and
(b) the ratio of industrial discharge flow to municipal
sewage flow is greater than 10:1.
[en. B.C. Reg. 132/2006, s. 1.]
Non-domestic waste connection to municipal sewage system
20
(1)  In this section:
"non-domestic waste"
means liquid waste other than domestic sewage;
"sewage treatment plant owner"
means a person or corporation responsible for the commissioning,
operation, maintenance and performance of a sewage facility or who
owns the facility, or both.
(2)  Release of non-domestic waste to a municipal sewage
system is prohibited unless
(a) the person releasing the non-domestic waste ensures that
its quality meets or exceeds Column 3, Schedule 1.2 of B.C. Reg.
63/88, the Hazardous Waste Regulation, before being released, and
(b) the sewage treatment plant owner ensures that the final
discharge meets the requirements of this regulation and the
quality of any biosolids meets the requirements of an
authorization issued under the Act.
(3)  A municipality must not accept the discharge of
non-domestic waste to a municipal sewage collection system, unless
the municipality
(a) has adopted a source control bylaw or equivalent measures
to regulate the discharge of non-domestic waste into the sewer
system, or
(b) demonstrates, to the satisfaction of a director, that a
source control bylaw or equivalent measures are not required to
protect the sewage facility or the receiving environment.
(4)  The source control bylaw required by subsection (3) (a)
must include
(a) provision for pre-treatment of industrial, commercial and
institutional discharges to the municipal sewer system, and
(b) pre-treatment requirements to ensure that the final
discharge of effluent meets the effluent quality standards set out
in Schedules 2 to 5 and that the quality of any biosolids meets
the requirements of an authorization given under the Act.
(5)  In order to satisfy subsection (3) (b), the discharger
may be required to conduct an environmental impact study as set
out in condition 8 in Schedule 1.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c) and (l).]
Semi-solid wastes
21
(1)  A person must not dispose of semi-solid waste to a
sewage facility unless
(a) the sewage facility is capable of treating these wastes,
in accordance with the standards outlined in Schedules 2 to 5,
(b) the sewage facility discharge does not cause water
quality parameters, outside the initial dilution zone to exceed
any known water quality guidelines, and
(c) the quality of any biosolids removed from the sewage
facility will meet the requirements of an authorization given
under the Act.
(2)  If necessary to protect the sewage facility, the
discharger must install pre-treatment or containment facilities.
(3)  In this section,
"semi-solid waste"
means septic tank pumpage, holding tank solids or sludge from
sewage facilities.
Operator qualifications and certification
22
(1)  A person must not introduce a discharge into the
environment unless the person ensures that the sewage facility is
(a) classified under the Environmental Operators
Certification Program,
(b) operated and maintained by
(i)  persons certified by, and in accordance with, the
Environmental Operators Certification Program, or
(ii)  persons who, in the opinion of the director, are
suitably qualified in the safe and proper operation of the
facility for the protection of the environment and human health,
and
(c) if a person is operating and maintaining a reclaimed
water distribution system, the person must be a Certified Cross
Connection Control Inspector.
(2)  If the Environmental Operators Certification Program
applies, certification of the operator must be completed to the
satisfaction of a director.
(3)  A director must be notified of all of the following
within 30 days of any change:
(a) in the classification level under the Environmental
Operators Certification Program of the facility;
(b) in the certification level required under the
Environmental Operators Certification Program for the operator
with the highest certification level of that facility;
(c) in who the operator with the highest certification level
of that facility is.
(4)  If the discharger wishes to demonstrate the operator's
qualifications to the director under subsection (1) (b) (ii), the
discharger must retain a qualified professional with
qualifications acceptable to the director.
(5)  The qualified professional referred to in subsection (4)
must
(a) determine staff requirements from the operating plans and
prepare examinations, both written and oral, to be given to the
operators,
(b) prepare a report on the operator's knowledge in relation
to the operating plans,
(c) propose a training program to correct any deficiencies
and provide ongoing educational upgrading, and
(d) prepare a report which evaluates compliance with the
training program and notes changes in sewage facilities and must
submit it to a director on an annual basis.
(6)  A director must be notified of any change of operators
within 30 days and, if applicable, the procedure outlined in
subsection (4) must be followed and the qualified professional's
report submitted to the director within 120 days.
(7)  The discharger must at all times employ operators who
have the educational and experience qualifications as specified in
the operating plan.
(8)  Despite subsection (1) (b) for discharges that are, in
the opinion of a director, remote or if daily access is
impractical, a discharger may install a continuous monitoring
system provided modifications, repairs and maintenance to the
facility are carried out by qualified operators as defined in this
section.
(9)  This section does not apply to a municipal sewage
collection system.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c), (m) and (n).]
Fees: operator certification
23
(1)  A person demonstrating the operator's qualifications to
the director under section 22 must pay a fee to the government of
$300 plus $80/hour for time required beyond 3 hours to assess any
information or reports submitted.
(2)  A fee is not payable under subsection (1) if the works
are operated and maintained by persons certified within and
according to the program provided by the Environmental Operators
Certification Program.
Part 7 - Monitoring
General
24
Discharge of effluent or use of reclaimed water is prohibited,
unless monitoring of effluent or reclaimed water and the receiving
environment is undertaken by the discharger to determine
compliance with this regulation.
Sampling and analysis
25
(1)  In order to satisfy the requirements of section 24, the
discharger must ensure that
(a) sampling and flow measurements are carried out in
accordance with the procedures described in "British Columbia
Field Sampling Manual for Continuous Monitoring plus the
Collection of Air, Air-Emission, Water, Wastewater, Soil, Sediment
and Biological Samples" as published by the minister's ministry,
and as amended from time to time, or by a suitable alternative
procedure as authorized by a director, and
(b) analysis is carried out in accordance with the procedures
described in "British Columbia Environmental Laboratory Manual for
the Analysis of Waters, Wastewaters, Sediments and Biological
Materials", as published by the minister's ministry, and as
amended from time to time, or by suitable alternative procedures
as authorized by a director.
(2)  If flows exceed 2.0 times the ADWF and are divided into
2 different levels of treatment, as described in Schedule 3,
sampling of the effluent must be undertaken by the discharger at a
point after the point at which effluent flows are recombined in
the outfall and at which complete mixing will have occurred.
(3)  Monitoring data required by this regulation must be
submitted in accordance with B.C. Reg. 301/90, the Environmental
Data Quality Assurance Regulation.
[am. B.C. Regs. 109/2002, s. 1; 321/2004, s. 31 (c); 305/2007, ss.
5 to 7; 4/2010, s. 3.]
Discharge monitoring
26
(1)  In order to satisfy the requirements of section 24, the
discharger must
(a) unless directed otherwise by a director in writing,
install a suitable sampling facility for obtaining a sample of the
effluent,
(b) unless directed otherwise by a director in writing,
provide and maintain a suitable flow measuring device to record
the effluent volume discharged over a 24-hour period, and
(c) monitor effluent quantity and quality as stipulated in
Schedule 6, or as directed by a director in writing.
(2)  The discharger must ensure that the projected monitoring
dates for the next year must be outlined in the annual report
required in section 28.
(3)  For new discharges, a person must not discharge unless
monitoring is initiated within one month of the discharge
commencing.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c).]
Receiving environment monitoring
27
(1)  In order to satisfy the requirements of section 24, the
discharger must
(a) monitor the receiving environment to provide data to
assess the potential impact of the discharge and to ensure that
the discharge does not or will not cause water quality parameters,
outside the initial dilution zone, to exceed any known water
quality guidelines,
(b) ensure that the monitoring program is designed by a
qualified professional knowledgeable in such matters, and
(c) when conducting a receiving environment monitoring
program, provide at least one control sampling station located
upstream, upgradient, or outside the influence of the initial
dilution zone of the effluent.
(2)  A receiving environment monitoring program established
in order to satisfy section 24 must document pre-discharge
conditions, and if seasonal variations of parameters within the
receiving environment are considered by a director to be
significant, pre-discharge monitoring must be carried out by the
discharger during the most critical period of the year as
determined by the director.
(3)  Based on the data submitted in accordance with section
28 or any other relevant information received by a director, the
director may, despite section 13 or Schedule 6, increase or
decrease receiving environment monitoring.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (h).]
Reporting requirements
28
(1)  A person must not introduce a discharge into the
environment unless the person retains the effluent flow and
effluent quality data and receiving environment monitoring data
for inspection at any time.
(2)  In addition to subsection (1), the discharger must
submit the data required by subsection (1) and associated quality
control work
(a) by electronic transmission directly to the ministry's
central computer system, or
(b) in a format acceptable to the director.
(3)  For discharges for which the contributory population
equivalent is less than 10 000 persons, the discharger, if
requested in writing by a director, must prepare and submit a
report
(a) on or before a date specified by the director,
(b) in a format acceptable to the director, and
(c) that contains any information specifically requested by
the director.
(4)  For discharges for which the contributory population is
equal to or greater than 10 000 persons, the discharger must
prepare and submit an annual report that includes a compendium of
the data submitted under subsections (1) and (2).
(5)  When required to prepare and submit an annual report in
accordance with subsection (4), the discharger must document in
the annual report
(a) any effect of the discharge on the quality of the
receiving environment using appropriate statistical and graphical
analysis, and
(b) any trends in environmental quality in receiving
environments affected by the discharge using background or
pre-discharge data and by using all the years of record in which
the discharge has taken place.
(6)  A report submitted to satisfy subsection (5) must
(a) be written and the analysis done by a suitably qualified
professional, and
(b) provide interpretation of monitoring data.
(7)  In addition to the effluent and environmental monitoring
data the annual report must address the following:
(a) if source control, water conservation and education
programs related to municipal sewage quantity or quality, or both,
have been implemented, an update of the previous year's
achievements;
(b) an update of the previous year's problems identified and
corrective actions taken;
(c) any planned improvements of sewage facilities for the
coming year;
(d) if reduce, reuse and recycle initiatives related to
municipal sewage quantity or quality, or both, have been
implemented, an update of the previous year's achievements;
(e) documentation of historic and projected contributory
population and remaining plant capacity;
(f) if applicable, the status of any capital replacement fund
established by the discharger;
(g) an outline of the projected monitoring dates for the next
year.
(8)  The discharger must
(a) submit the annual report to a director within 120 days of
the end of each calendar year, and
(b) on written request from a director, make the annual
report available to an individual requesting the report or the
public by posting it on the internet or providing a copy to the
local public library, or both.
[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 31 (c), (e), (o) and (p).]
Part 8 - Offences and Penalties
Offences and penalties
29
(1)  A person who contravenes section 10 (5), (7), or (8), 14
(1), 16 (1), 18 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1) or 24 commits an offence and
is liable to a penalty not exceeding $200 000 or 6 months
imprisonment, or both.
(2)  A person who, with intent to mislead,
(a) submits false monitoring data,
(b) fails to retain monitoring data under section 28 (1), or
(c) makes a false report, or fails to submit a report under
section 28 (3) or (4)
commits an offence and is liable to a penalty not exceeding $200
000 or 6 months imprisonment, or both.
Schedule 1
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (r) to (y); 305/2007, s. 8.]
Conditions for Exemption under Section 2 of This Regulation
Definition
1
In this Schedule,
"condition [XX]"
means section
[XX]
of this Schedule.
Notification of change of information
2
The discharger must notify a director within 30 days of any change
in the information submitted
(a) to register under section 3 of this regulation, or
(b) to update information given to register under section 3
of this regulation.
Water quality standards
3
(1)  The discharger must ensure that no person discharges
effluent unless all known water quality guidelines are met.
(2)  If the discharger is directed by a director to establish
the background water quality limit required by subcondition (1)
for the receiving environment in order to satisfy condition 4, the
discharger must, before the discharge commences, undertake a
sampling program that
(a) determines background water quality for any parameter
specified by the director,
(b) is conducted upstream or upgradient of the point of
discharge, and
(c) is conducted beyond the edge of the initial dilution
zone.
Director's directions respecting standards
4
(1)  In place of a standard or requirement specified in this
regulation, the discharger must comply with an equivalent or more
stringent standard or requirement that a director specifies in
writing for a particular discharge.
(2)  To specify an equivalent or more stringent standard or
requirement, the director must be satisfied that the standard or
requirement
(a) is necessary for the protection of human health and the
environment, and
(b) is based on, in connection with the discharge,
(i)  an environmental impact study required by this
regulation,
(ii)  receiving environment monitoring data, or
(iii)  other information relevant to the discharge or the
receiving environment.
Security requirements
5
(1)  For the purpose of this condition:
"capital replacement fund"
means a fund
(a) comprised of cash, securities, bonds or other financial
instruments or insurance, or a combination of these, that assure
that the potential cost, whenever it may arise, of full
replacement of the sewage facility will be covered, and
(b) that is not assignable or refundable, and must be
replenished if contributions are made from it for capital
replacement purposes, unless a director states in writing that
satisfactory alternative arrangements are made that assure that
the potential cost, whenever it may arise, of full replacement of
the sewage facility will be covered;
"residential development"
means a dwelling or collection of dwellings that serve as the
primary residence of their inhabitants all of whom rely on the
discharger to provide the municipal sewage system.
(2)  For the purpose of this condition and conditions 6 and
7,
"assurance plan"
means a program, the insurance instruments of which are provided
by a company registered under the
Insurance Act
with the Superintendent of Insurance, having sufficient quality
assurance and technical, financial and management resources to
provide, or warrant the provision of, repairs to, or operation,
maintenance or replacement of each sewage facility registered with
the program.
(3)  If the discharger is an individual, company or strata
corporation, the discharger must not treat, reuse or dispose of
municipal sewage generated by a residential development unless
(a) a capital replacement fund is established,
(b) the discharger provides, within 90 days of the end of the
discharger's fiscal year, audited annual financial statements of
the capital replacement fund to a director, and
(c) the discharger ensures that the director can act in a
timely manner as set out in subcondition (7) respecting the
capital replacement fund.
(4)  If the discharger is an individual, company or strata
corporation, the discharger must not treat, reuse or dispose of
municipal sewage generated by a residential development unless
(a) security is provided, and
(b) the discharger ensures that a director can act in a
timely manner as set out in subcondition (7) respecting the
security.
(5)  The security under subcondition (4) must be
(a) calculated in accordance with subcondition (6),
(b) maintained with a financial institution, in a form
approved by a director, and
(c) adjusted annually to match inflation based on Statistics
Canada capital equipment index of the Industrial Products Price
Index with 1999 as the base year.
(6)  Security is calculated using the following formula and
rounded up to the nearest $1 000:
security = $1400Q,
where
"Q"
is the maximum daily flow in m
3
/d.
(7)  Contributions from the capital replacement fund, the
security under subcondition (4), or a combination of both may, at
the discretion of a director, be accessed and used for the repair,
operation, maintenance, replacement or improvement of the sewage
facility or for the payment of any insurance policy premiums or
deductibles, provided
(a) the director notifies the discharger in writing that the
contribution is required if the discharger does not make the
repair, operation, maintenance, replacement or improvement or make
payment of any insurance premiums or deductibles within a
reasonable time specified by the director, and
(b) the discharger does not make the repair, operation,
maintenance, replacement or improvement or make payment of any
insurance premiums or deductibles within the time specified by the
director under paragraph (a).
(8)  The discharger must forward proof of security, and of
establishment of the capital replacement fund, to the director at
least 30 days before construction of a sewage facility
(9)  Subconditions (3) and (4) do not apply to a discharger
that
(a) is a municipality, or
(b) discharges from a service area defined and governed by a
local service area bylaw.
(10)  If a discharger has submitted written proof to the
director that the discharge is registered with an assurance plan,
approved in accordance with condition 6 (4), subconditions (3) and
(4) do not apply to the discharger.
Approval of assurance plan
6
(1)  The director may establish a roster of expert
consultants to assist in the reviewing of an assurance plan.
(2)  Before submitting an assurance plan for approval under
subcondition (4), a person, subject to subcondition (3), must, at
their expense, ensure that an expert consultant selected from the
roster established under subcondition (1) has reviewed the
assurance plan and has made a recommendation to the director on
the acceptability of the assurance plan.
(3)  For the purpose of selecting a consultant, the person
must not select a consultant from the roster that has been
involved in developing the assurance plan being reviewed or has a
personal or business relationship with the person requiring the
review.
(4)  On receipt of an assurance plan that has the findings of
the reviewing consultant appended, the director may approve the
plan provided the director is satisfied that it adequately
provides for sufficient quality assurance and technical, financial
and management resources to provide operation, maintenance,
repairs or replacement of the sewage facilities.
Report to the director
7
(1)  The discharger must, on or before March 31 in each year,
provide to the director an annual report detailing what quality
assurance and technical, financial and management resources are in
place under the assurance plan and how effective the quality
assurance and technical, financial and management resources have
been during the previous calendar year.
(2)  On receipt of the report under subcondition (1), the
director may require the discharger to
(a) make amendments to an individual's or organization's
assurance plan as approved under condition 6, or
(b) submit a new assurance plan to the director for review
and approval.
(3)  If the discharger ceases to be covered under an approved
assurance plan, the discharger must notify the director in writing
within 30 days of the date of the change in status.
Environmental impact studies
8
(1)  This condition and conditions 9 and 10 do not apply to
discharges or use of reclaimed water authorized under the Act
prior to this regulation coming into force, unless a director
notifies the discharger in writing that they apply.
(2)  A discharger must not discharge effluent or provide for
use reclaimed water, unless the discharger
(a) ensures that a qualified professional conducts and
completes, based on the effluent quality standards in Schedules 2
to 5 being met or exceeded, an environmental impact study
(i)  at least 90 days before the construction of any facility
commences,
(ii)  that considers uses of the receiving environment or
groundwater,
(iii)  that establishes, before and after discharge
commences,
(A)  receiving environment monitoring locations, and
(B)  sampling parameters and frequencies, and
(iv)  that demonstrates, as appropriate to the nature of the
discharge and the receiving environment, that the proposed
treatment, reuse or disposal system or the discharges therefrom
will not adversely affect human health and the environment, and
(b) retains, for inspection by a director at any time, the
completed environmental impact study.
Combined and sanitary sewer overflows
9
If condition 15 or 16 applies to a discharge, the discharger must
(a) ensure that a qualified professional conducts and
completes, at least 90 days before the construction of any
facility commences, an environmental impact study that identifies,
(i)  any water quality requirements necessary to protect the
receiving environment, and
(ii)  the treatment needed to protect the designated uses of
the waters receiving combined sewer overflows or sanitary sewer
overflows, and
(b) retain, for inspection by a director at any time, the
completed environmental impact study.
Sewage facilities
10
(1)  The discharger must ensure that no person discharges
effluent from sewage facilities
(a) installed or proposed to be installed on and after the
effective date of this regulation, or
(b) proposed to be expanded to accommodate an increase in
flow greater than 20% of the maximum authorized flow applicable
before this regulation came into force, except in the case that
the expansion was planned and assessed as part of the
authorization granted before this regulation came into force,
unless the discharger
(i)  ensures that a qualified professional conducts and
completes an environmental impact study
(A)  at least 90 days before the construction of any facility
commences, and
(B)  as appropriate to the nature of the treatment facility
and the surrounding environment, consider provisions for
controlling any environmental impact during development,
construction and operation of the facility or site, and
(ii)  retains, for inspection by a director at any time, the
completed environmental impact study.
Design standards
11
The discharger must ensure that no person introduces a discharge
to the environment, unless the minimum standards for the design of
the sewage facilities as set out in Schedule 7, or equivalent
standards, are met.
Construction of a facility
12
The discharger must not commence construction of a facility from
which a discharge may be made until 90 days after registration
under section 3 of this regulation.
For conditions 14 to 17
13
(1)  For the purpose of this condition and conditions 14 to
17:
"combined sewer overflow"
means a discharge from a combined sewer system to a location other
than a sewage facility;
"sanitary sewer"
means a municipal sewage collection system;
"sanitary sewer overflow"
means a discharge from the sanitary sewer to a location other than
a sewage facility.
(2)  The minister may, on written request from the
discharger, extend any date in conditions 15 to 17.
Combined sewers
14
(1)  In this condition,
"combined sewer system"
means ditches, drains, sewers, treatment facilities and disposal
facilities that collect, transport, treat or dispose of a
combination of municipal sewage and stormwater in a single system.
(2)  The discharger must ensure that no person constructs or
expands a combined sewer system.
(3)  Emergency repairs to existing combined sewer systems are
permitted, however, the discharger must ensure that the person
responsible for the municipal sewage collection system assesses
the feasibility of sewer separation and, wherever possible,
separates the storm and sanitary sewers at the time of repair.
Combined sewer overflows
15
(1)  The discharger must ensure that no person allows a
combined sewer overflow to occur during storm or snowmelt events
with less than a 5-year return period, unless
(a) for municipal sewage collection systems for which the
contributory population equivalent is equal to or greater than 10
000 persons, the person responsible for the municipal sewage
collection system addresses as part of a liquid waste management
plan existing combined sewer overflows including undertaking
measures to eliminate overflows, or
(b) for municipal sewage collection systems for which the
contributory population equivalent is less than 10 000 persons,
the person responsible for the municipal sewage collection system
develops a liquid waste management plan or conducts a study and
develops and implements measures such that combined sewer
overflows are eventually eliminated.
(2)  Despite subcondition (1) the discharger must ensure that
the person responsible for the municipal sewage collection system,
on the request of a director and at least once in each 10 year
period, prepares and maintains for inspection a record containing
all the following information:
(a) an estimate of the volume, frequency and number of
combined sewer overflow occurrences for each overflow location;
(b) based on the estimate in paragraph (a), an estimate of
the total annual volume of all combined sewer overflow occurrences
which occur during storm or snowmelt events with less than a 5
year return period;
(c) the steps that have been or will be taken to reduce
volume, frequency and number of combined sewer overflow
occurrences;
(d) a plan for the reduction in the volume estimated under
paragraph (b) by an average 1.0% per year over a 10 calendar year
period;
(e) an assessment of the potential impact of the overflow
occurrences on the receiving environment at each overflow
location;
(f) a record of each overflow occurrence which occurs during
storm or snowmelt events with less than a 5 year return period.
(3)  The discharger may not employ storage or conveyance
facilities to reduce the amount of sewer separation required,
unless the facilities immediately reduce and ultimately prevent
the occurrence of combined sewer overflows.
(4)  If facilities are used under subcondition (3) and
primary and secondary treatment are available, the discharger must
(a) provide at least primary treatment for the flows greater
than 2.0 times the ADWF,
(b) utilize the full secondary capacity of the treatment
plant,
(c) combine the primary and secondary effluent prior to
discharge,
(d) maintain a minimum receiving environment to discharge
dilution ratio of 40:1, and
(e) if disinfection is required, provide adequate excess
disinfection capacity to ensure disinfection of the entire
discharge flow.
Sanitary Sewer Overflows
16
(1)  The discharger must ensure that no person allows a
sanitary sewer overflow to occur during storm or snowmelt events
with less than a 5-year return period, unless
(a) for municipal sewage collection systems for which the
contributory population equivalent is equal to or greater than 10
000 persons, the person responsible for the municipal sewage
collection system addresses as part of a liquid waste management
plan existing sanitary sewer overflows including undertaking
measures to eliminate overflows, and
(b) for municipal sewage collection systems for which the
contributory population equivalent is less than 10 000 persons,
the person responsible for the municipal sewage collection system
develops a liquid waste management plan or conducts a study and
develops and implements measures such that sanitary sewer
overflows are eliminated.
(2)  Despite subcondition (1), the discharger must ensure
that the person responsible for the sewage collection system, on
the request of a director and, at least once in each 10 year
period, prepares and maintains for inspection a record containing
all the following information:
(a) an estimate of the volume, frequency and number of
sanitary sewer overflow occurrences for each overflow location;
(b) based on the estimate in paragraph (a), an estimate of
the total annual volume of all sanitary sewer overflow occurrences
which occur during storm or snowmelt events with less than a 5
year return period;
(c) the steps that have been or will be taken to reduce
volume, frequency and number of sanitary sewer overflow
occurrences;
(d) a plan for the reduction in the volume estimated under
paragraph (b) by an average 10.0% per year over a 10 calendar year
period;
(e) an assessment of the potential impact of the overflow
occurrences on the receiving environment at each overflow
location;
(f) a record of each overflow occurrence which occurs during
storm or snowmelt events with less than a 5 year return period.
(3)  The discharger may not employ storage or conveyance
facilities to reduce the amount of I/I reduction required, unless
the facilities immediately reduce and ultimately prevent the
occurrence of sanitary sewer overflows.
(4)  If facilities are used under subcondition (3) and
primary and secondary treatment are available, the discharger must
do all of the following:
(a) provide at least primary treatment for the flows greater
than 2.0 times the ADWF;
(b) utilize the full secondary capacity of the treatment
plant;
(c) combine the primary and secondary effluent prior to
discharge;
(d) maintain a minimum receiving environment to discharge
dilution ratio of 40:1;
(e) if disinfection is required, provide adequate excess
disinfection capacity to ensure disinfection of the entire
discharge flow.
Inflow and infiltration
17
(1)  The discharger must ensure that no person allows inflow
and infiltration so that the maximum average daily flow exceeds
2.0 times ADWF to occur during storm or snowmelt events with less
than a 5-year return period, unless
(a) if 2.0 times ADWF is exceeded at the treatment plant and
for municipal sewage collection systems for which the contributory
population to the treatment plant is equivalent to or exceeds 10
000 persons, the discharger addresses how I/I can be reduced as
part of a liquid waste management plan, or
(b) if 2.0 times ADWF is exceeded at the treatment plant and
for municipal sewage collection systems for which the contributory
population equivalent to the treatment plant is less than 10 000
persons, the discharger either develops a liquid waste management
plan or conducts a study and develops and implements measures that
are developed in either the liquid waste management plan or the
study such that I/I is reduced.
(2)  Despite subcondition (1), if reductions below 2.0 times
ADWF are not possible or cost effective based on a cost/benefit
analysis, the discharger must
(a) provide full secondary treatment for the entire flow at
all times, or
(b) undertake all of the following:
(i)  provide at least primary treatment for flows greater
than 2.0 times the ADWF;
(ii)  utilize the full secondary treatment capacity of the
treatment facility;
(iii)  combine the primary and secondary effluent prior to
discharge;
(iv)  maintain a minimum receiving environment to discharge
dilution ratio of 40:1;
(v)  if disinfection is required, provide adequate excess
disinfection capacity to ensure disinfection of the entire
discharge flow.
Schedule 2
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (z) to (cc); 305/2007, s. 9; 4/2010,
s. 3.]
Permitted Uses and Standards for Reclaimed Water
(Section 10 of this Regulation)
Reclaimed Water Category and Permitted Uses (1)
Treatment
Requirements (2)
Effluent Quality Requirements (3)
Monitoring
Requirements (5)
UNRESTRICTED PUBLIC ACCESS
URBAN
- Parks (6)
- Playgrounds
- Cemeteries
- Golf Courses (6)
- Road Rights-of-Way
- School Grounds (6)
- Residential Lawns
- Greenbelts
- Vehicle and Driveway Washing
- Landscaping around Buildings
- Toilet Flushing
- Outside Landscape Fountains
- Outside Fire Protection
- Street Cleanings
AGRICULTURAL
- Aquaculture
- Food Crops Eaten Raw
- Orchards and Vineyards
- Pasture (no lag time for animal grazing)
- Frost Protection (17), Crop Cooling and Chemical Spraying on
crops eaten raw
- Seed Crops
RECREATIONAL (18)
- Stream Augmentation
- Impoundments for Boating and Fishing
- Snow Making for Skiing and Snowboarding
Secondary (7)
Chemical
Addition (8)
Filtration (4)
Disinfection (9)
Emergency
Storage (2)
pH = 6 - 9
<
10 mg/L BOD
5
<
2 NTU (10)
number of fecal coliform organisms
<
2.2/100 mL (11) (12)
General (13) (14) (15)
pH - weekly
BOD - weekly
Turbidity -
continuous
Coliform (16)
- daily
RESTRICTED PUBLIC ACCESS
AGRICULTURAL
- Commercially processed food crops (19)
- Fodder, Fibre
- Pasture (20)
- Silviculture
- Nurseries
- Sod Farms
- Spring Frost Protection (17)
- Chemical Spray
- Trickle/Drip Irrigation of Orchards and Vineyards
URBAN/RECREATIONAL (18)
- Landscape Impoundments
- Landscape Waterfalls
- Snow Making not for Skiing and Snowboarding
CONSTRUCTION
- Soil Compaction
- Dust Control
- Aggregate Washing
- Making Concrete
- Equipment Washdown
INDUSTRIAL (24)
- Cooling Towers
- Process Water
- Stack Scrubbing
- Boiler Feed
ENVIRONMENTAL (18)
- Wetlands (25)
Secondary (7)
Disinfection (9)
pH = 6 - 9
<
45 mg/L BOD
5
<
45 mg/L TSS (26)
number of fecal coliform organisms
<
200/100 mL (11)(21)(22)
General (14)(23)
pH - weekly
BOD - weekly
TSS - daily
Coliform - weekly
Numeric values in parentheses refer to numbered explanations in the
explanatory notes, Appendix 1 to Schedule 2
<
means less than or equal to
>
means greater than or equal to > means greater than
Appendix 1 to Schedule 2
Explanatory Notes
1 The type of reclaimed water use permitted must be one of those
indicated on this Schedule. Other proposed types of reclaimed water
use will be assessed by the director on an individual basis and
must, in consultation with the Ministry of Health Services, be
approved in writing by the director.
2 Reliability must be provided for all treatment processes as set
out in Schedule 7. Emergency storage must satisfy the requirements
of section 10 of this regulation.
3 Effluent quality limits must be calculated as running mean values
and apply to the reclaimed water at the point of discharge from the
treatment facility or, if storage is provided, at the point of
distribution or use.
4 Sixty day storage after secondary treatment is acceptable in lieu
of filtration provided the final effluent quality requirements are
met and the discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of a
director that no short circuiting is occurring or likely to occur
and that no viruses at levels of concern to local health authorities
are detected in the reclaimed water.
5 Subject to Note 1 Appendix 1 to Schedule 6, these requirements
take precedence over the requirements of Schedule 6.
6 Remote areas of parks, school grounds during vacation periods, and
golf courses may be considered under the restricted public access
category, provided: a minimum of 60 days storage is provided; the
discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of a director that
access is controlled, that environmental concerns are addressed and
that any concerns of the local health authorities are resolved; and,
the director, in consultation with the local health authorities,
approves the use in writing.
7 Secondary treatment as defined by section 1 of this regulation.
8 Chemical addition includes coagulant or polymer prior to
filtration. Use is restricted to those coagulants and polymers shown
to be non-toxic.
9 For distribution of reclaimed water, the discharger must ensure
that minimum total chlorine residual of 0.5 mg/L is maintained at
the point of initial use. This requirement may be waived by a
director, provided the discharger demonstrates, to the satisfaction
of the director and local health authorities, that fecal coliforms
remain below levels prescribed by this Schedule at the point of use
and that the users are adequately informed regarding appropriate use
of the reclaimed water.
10 Turbidity limit must be met prior to disinfection. The average
turbidity must be based on a 24-hour time period. The turbidity must
not exceed 5 NTU at any time. If TSS is used in lieu of turbidity,
the average TSS must not exceed 5 mg/L.
11 The median value, as determined from the bacteriological results
of the last 7 samples for which analyses have been completed, must
not exceed the coliform limits specified.
12 For unrestricted public access use, the number of fecal coliform
organisms must not exceed 14/100 mL in any sample.
13 The reclaimed water provider must demonstrate that reclaimed
water does not contain pathogens or parasites at levels which are a
concern to local health authorities. Reclaimed water must be clean,
odourless, non-irritating to skin and eyes and must contain no
substances that are toxic on ingestion.
14 Where available agricultural (crop) limits must govern criteria
for metals. High nutrient levels may adversely affect some crops
during certain growth stages. Crop limits and season must govern
nutrient application.
15 The reclaimed water provider must obtain monitoring results, and
confirm that water quality requirements are met, prior to
distribution.
16 Based on an initial 60 days of compliance with the quality limit,
the discharger must conduct weekly presence or absence testing for
coliform monitoring. If presence of any coliform is detected daily
fecal coliform testing must be reinstated until the quality limit is
in compliance. Fourteen tests must be conducted to demonstrate that
the discharge is back in compliance and then weekly presence/absence
testing must be resumed.
17 Discharger must consult with the ministry of the minister
responsible for the administration of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Act
regarding the difference between spraying for frost protection and
spring frost protection techniques.
18 If chlorine is used as a disinfectant then dechlorination is
necessary to protect aquatic species of flora and fauna. The use of
alternative disinfection methods is recommended. Possible effects on
groundwater must be evaluated. Receiving water quality requirements
may necessitate additional treatment. The temperature of the
reclaimed water must not adversely affect the ecosystem. Nutrient
removal may be necessary to limit algae growth in impoundments.
19 Commercially processed food crops are those that, prior to sale
to the public or others, have undergone chemical or physical
processing such as, but not limited to, canning, heat treatment,
fermentation and pickling, sufficient to destroy pathogens.
20 Milking animals must be prohibited from grazing for 6 days after
irrigation ceases. Other cattle must be prohibited from grazing for
3 days after irrigation ceases unless the meat is inspected under
the Federal Meat Inspection Program.
21 For restricted public access use, the number of fecal coliform
organisms must not exceed 800/100 mL in any sample.
22 Worker contact with reclaimed water must be minimized. A higher
level of disinfection to achieve the number of fecal coliform
organisms < 14/100 mL must be provided where frequent worker
contact with reclaimed water is likely.
23 Setback distance to potable water well must be > 30 m. A
provider of reclaimed water must ensure that windblown spray will
not exceed the boundaries of the property to which the reclaimed
water is being applied and that windblown spray must not reach areas
accessible to the public.
24 A provider of reclaimed water must consult specific industry's
recommended water quality limits for make-up water.
25 Notwithstanding note 21, for wetlands where no diving, swimming,
or wading activities occur, the number of fecal coliform organisms
must not exceed 1 000/100 mL as determined in accordance with note
11 to this Appendix and the number of fecal coliform organisms must
not exceed 4 000/100 mL in any sample.
26 For lagoon systems, the maximum TSS level must not exceed 60
mg/L.
Schedule 3
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (dd) and (ee); 305/2007, s. 10.]
Standards for Discharges to Water
(Section 11 of this Regulation)
Portion of Effluent Being Discharged
Receiving Water (1)(5)(6)
Parameter
Streams, Rivers & Estuaries with Dilution Ratio (2)
Column C
Lakes (surface area
>
100 ha)(7)
Marine
Column A
>
40:1 (3)
Column B
>
10:1 (3)
Column D
Open Marine Waters
Column E
Embayed Marine Waters
Column F
Maximum Daily Flow
>
50 m
3
/d
Treatment requirement for daily flows up to 2.0 times ADWF
Secondary
High Quality Secondary
Secondary
Secondary
Secondary
Effluent Quality for daily flows up to 2.0 times ADWF (4)
45
10
45
45
45
BOD
5
, mg/L
45
10
45
45
45
TSS, mg/L (13)
6.0-9.0
6.0-9.0
6.0-9.0
6.0-9.0
6.0-9.0
pH
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
Disinfection, Coliforms
1.0 (10)
1.0 (10)
1.0 (10)
—
1.0 (10)
Total phosphorus (P), mg/L
0.5 (10)
0.5 (10)
0.5 (10)
—
0.5 (10)
Ortho phosphate as (P), mg/L
(12)
(12)
(12)
(12)
(12)
Ammonia
Interim Treatment requirement for daily flows greater than 2.0
times ADWF (4)
Primary
High Quality Secondary
Primary
Primary
Primary
Interim Effluent quality for daily flows greater than 2.0
times ADWF (4)
130
10
130
130
130
BOD
5
, mg/L
130
10
130
130
130
TSS, mg/L
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
Disinfection, Coliforms
(12)
(12)
(12)
(12)
(12)
Ammonia
Maximum Daily Flow <50 m
3
/d and
>
10 m
3
/d
Treatment requirement
Secondary
High Quality Secondary
Secondary
Primary
Secondary
Effluent quality for all flows
45
10
45
130
45
BOD
5
, mg/L
45
10
45
130
45
TSS, mg/L (13)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
Disinfection, Coliforms
Maximum Daily Flow < 10 m
3
/d
Treatment requirements
Secondary
High Quality Secondary
Secondary
Septic Tank (9)
Septic Tank (9)
Effluent quality for all flows
45
10
45
—
—
BOD
5
, mg/L
45
10
45
—
—
TSS, mg/L (13)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
(8) (11)
—
—
Disinfection, Coliforms
Numeric values in parentheses refer to numbered explanations in the
explanatory notes, Appendix 1 to Schedule 3
< means less than
<
means less than or equal to
>
means greater than or equal to
Appendix 1 to Schedule 3
Explanatory Notes
1 Effluent quality standards for all receiving water discharges are
based on the use of an outfall which provides a combination of depth
and distance to produce a minimum 10:1 initial dilution within the
initial dilution zone.
2 For estuaries, the stream flow is the fresh water content.
3 If the dilution ratio is less than 100:1 the environmental impact
study must determine if effluent quality needs to be better than
that shown in Schedule 3. If the dilution ratio is below 40:1 and
the receiving stream is used for recreational or domestic water
extraction within the influence of the discharge or for seasonal
discharge, discharge is not authorized unless an environmental
impact study shows that the discharge is acceptable, and, in the
opinion of a director, no other solutions are available and written
authorization from the director is obtained. For seasonal discharges
or where the receiving stream is not used for recreational or
domestic water extraction, the director may in writing authorize a
minimum dilution ratio of 20:1 for column A. Discharge is prohibited
if the dilution ratio is less than 10:1.
4 Treatment and effluent quality requirements are determined by
daily flow multiples which require secondary treatment for all flows
up to and equaling 2.0 times the ADWF. As set out in condition 17 to
Schedule 1, a liquid waste management plan or specific study and
implemented measures are required if flows exceed 2.0 times ADWF
during a storm or equivalent snowmelt event with a less than 5-year
return period. In the interim, if flows exceed 2.0 times ADWF, a
lesser standard of treatment may be allowed for existing discharges,
but must not be less than primary. For areas of the province where
permafrost or freezing ground conditions require, in accordance with
a practice approved by the local building inspector or equivalent,
connection of roof drains to the sanitary sewer system, a director
may, in writing, increase the factor from 2.0 times to a maximum of
3.0 times.
5 All outfalls must be marked on shore with an appropriate sign.
Information required is the length and depth of the outfall. The
minimum size of the sign is 1.0 m
2
and the colours of the lettering and the background must contrast
sufficiently with each other that the wording is clearly visible.
The sign must be visible from both water and land. The wording on
the sign must be to the satisfaction of a director.
6 The discharger must also ensure that requirements of Schedule 5
are met, if applicable.
7 See requirements of Schedule 5.
8 The allowable number of fecal coliform organisms in the effluent
is dependent on the use of the receiving water. For discharges to
shellfish bearing waters the number of fecal coliform organisms at
the edge of the initial dilution zone must be less than 14/100 mL
("the median number of fecal coliform organisms in a water sample
does not exceed 14/100 mL, with not more than 10% of the samples
exceeding 43/100 mL", from "Canadian Shellfish Sanitation Program,
Manual of Operations"). For discharges to recreational use waters
the number of fecal coliform organisms at the edge of the initial
dilution zone must be less than 200/100 mL. Where domestic water
extraction occurs within 300 meters of a discharge the median number
of fecal coliform organisms must be less than 2.2/100 mL in the
effluent with no sample exceeding 14/100 mL. The geometric mean, as
determined from the bacteriological results of the last 5 samples
for which analyses have been completed over the last 30 days, must
not exceed the coliform limits specified, and for this purpose,
"geometric mean"
means the anti-logarithm of a calculation in which the logarithms of
a series of numerical measures are summed and divided by the number
of numerical measures.
9 Septic tank treatment requires a hydraulic capacity of at least 2
days minimum detention time at the design maximum daily flow. An
effluent filter, screen or equivalent measures to protect pumps and
prevent discharge of solids and floatables is required. For small,
remote, seasonal discharges a director may waive the requirement for
an effluent filter.
10 The total and ortho phosphorus criteria may be waived, by a
director in writing, if it can be shown by an environmental impact
study that receiving waters would not be subject to an undesirable
degree of increased biological activity because of the phosphorus
addition. Alternatively, an environmental impact study may show that
lower effluent concentrations than are tabulated are necessary, or
that a mass load criteria may be needed.
11 If required to satisfy section 8 of this regulation.
12 The maximum allowable effluent ammonia concentration at the "end
of pipe" must be determined from a back calculation from the edge of
the initial dilution zone. The back calculation must consider the
ambient temperature and pH characteristics of the receiving water
and known water quality guidelines.
13 For lagoon systems, the maximum TSS level must not exceed 60
mg/L.
Schedule 4
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (ff); 132/2006, ss. 2 and 3;
305/2007, s. 11.]
Standards for Discharges into Ground
(Appendix 1 Note 1)
(Section 12 of this regulation)
General
1
(1)  In this section,
"subsurface travel time"
means the actual time, including both the time the effluent spends
in the unsaturated and saturated zones, required for the effluent
to travel from the bottom of the disposal trench or point of
release to the ground to the point where the effluent
(a) surfaces,
(b) reaches a property line, or
(c) is intercepted by a water well.
(2)  The discharger must demonstrate that the subsurface
travel time before effluent reaches the property boundary, is
intercepted by a water well or surfaces is not less than 6 days
for class A or class B effluent and is not less than 10 days for
class C or D effluent as defined in Table 1.
2
The discharger must demonstrate that the discharge does not
surface nor cause the groundwater table to be raised to the
surface:
(a) within a distance of 30 m beyond the disposal site
perimeter on the property of the discharger or Crown land or land
owned by others, and
(b) at a distance greater than 30 m on the property of the
discharger or Crown land or on land owned by others, unless it can
be demonstrated to the satisfaction of a director that the
discharge does not cause water quality parameters to exceed known
water quality guidelines.
3
For the purpose of section 2 (b) of this Schedule, it must be
demonstrated that the surfaced effluent will not adversely impact
property owners, residents and users.
4
For the purpose of this Schedule, the maximum daily flow is to be
based on the requirements of note 2 and note 6 of Appendix 1, and
(a) if a sewage disposal system serves more than one parcel
of land, the estimated or actual total flow must be calculated by
summing the estimated total sewage flow of all discharges of
sewage directed to the disposal system;
(b) if there is more than one sewage disposal system located
within a strata plan or, if no strata plan applies, located on a
parcel of land, the estimated or actual total sewage flow must be
calculated by summing the estimated total sewage flow for all
discharges of sewage directed to all sewage disposal systems
located within the strata plan or on the parcel of land.
5
Effluent from an exfiltration basin is a class C effluent except
that if the exfiltration basin is located within 300 m of a
drinking water source its effluent must meet class A requirements.
6
The numeric values in parentheses refer to numbered explanations
in the explanatory notes, Appendix 1 to Schedule 4.
Table 1 — Effluent Class Definition
Effluent Quality Parameters (maximum values) (1)
Effluent Class
Description
BOD
5
(mg/L)
TSS (mg/L)
Fecal Coliform
(number of fecal coliform organisms /100ml)
Turbidity (NTU)
Nitrogen (mg/L)
A
high quality secondary (drinking water well within 300 m)
10
10
median - 2.2
any sample - 14
average - 2
any sample - 5
Nitrate-N - 10
Total N - 20
B
high quality secondary
10
10
*
N/A
N/A
C
secondary
45
45 (10)
N/A
N/A
N/A
D
typical septic tank
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A means not applicable
*A fecal coliform limit of 400/100mL applies to discharges
designed to meet the requirements of Row 2 to Table 3.
Table 2 — Requirements for Discharges (Maximum Daily Flow) less
than 37 m
3
/d (2)
Effluent Class
Drainage Pipe Length (4)
Minimum unsaturated soil depth (5) (m)
Continuous Monitoring Required
Row 1
A (3)
Table 4
0.5
Yes
Row 2
B (3)
Table 4
0.5
Yes
Row 3
C
Table 4
0.75
No
Row 4
D
Table 4
0.75
No
Table 3 — Requirements for Discharges (Maximum Daily Flow) equal
to or greater than 37 m
3
/d (6)
Effluent Class
Drainage Pipe Length (4)
Minimum unsaturated soil depth (5) (m)
Maximum Percentage Reduction in Disposal Field Length
Continuous Monitoring Required
Row 1
A (3)
Table 4
0.5
40
Yes
Row 2
B (3)
Table 4
0.5
40
Yes
Row 3
C (3)
Table 4
1.0
0
No
Row 4
D
Table 4
1.0
0
No
Table 4 — Minimum Drainage Pipe Length for Each Field (11)
Number of metres of drainage pipe for each 10 m
3
/d of Maximum Daily Flow for percolation rates shown
Percolation rate; minutes/25 mm
2 (7) (8)
5 (7)
10
15
20 (9)
25 (9)
30 (9)
Effluent Class Prior to Application: A, B or C
50
75
100
110
120
135
150
Effluent Class prior to Application: D
120
215
280
320
360
400
430
Appendix 1 to Schedule 4
Explanatory Notes
1 The discharger must ensure that requirements of Schedule 5 are
met, if applicable.
2 Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 305/2007, s. 11 (b).]
3 The use of a drainfield in this category requires filtration to
prevent solids carrying over into the disposal field. Monitoring
controls must be maintained to signal an alarm when filtration
begins to malfunction.
4 Use of chamber distribution systems with equivalent length are
permissible. The bottom of the sidewall or "foot" of the chamber is
considered to be the trench bottom.
5 Measured from the trench bottom to the highest water table
including the groundwater mounding effect or restrictive layer
where, in this note and note 7 of this Appendix,
"groundwater mounding effect"
means the vertical rise in the water table that occurs in response
to a discharge.
6 For flows equal to or greater than 37 m
3
/d only, and if water conservation measures are employed and a
restrictive covenant is placed on each property requiring that water
conservation measures are continuously employed, actual maximum
daily flow may be used to design the treatment works and the
disposal system. Notwithstanding Schedule 6 flow monitoring
requirements, if actual maximum daily flow is used, daily discharge
volume monitoring is required.
7 For discharges equal to or greater than 37 m
3
/d only, if the soils are well drained and if the depth to
groundwater including any groundwater mounding effect is greater
than 1.0 m below the bottom of the drainage trench, a qualified
professional may design the ground disposal system with deeper
narrower trenches and the drainage pipe length may be reduced to a
value equal to the product of Table 4 pipe length and a factor of
1/H
0.5
or 0.8 (whichever factor is greater), where H is the drainage trench
depth below pipe invert in metres.
8 Percolation rates less than 2 minutes per 25 mm are too fast for
adequate renovation and drainfields will not be permitted, unless
hydrogeological studies show that local groundwater quality can be
met at the property boundary. For discharges of less than 37 m
3
/d only, use of AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TESTING MATERIALS C33 sand
mounding or AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TESTING MATERIALS C33 sand-filled
trenches to reduce percolation is permitted if Class B or A effluent
is discharged by pressure distribution.
9 Percolation rates more than 20 minutes per 25 mm require the
construction to be supervised by a qualified professional to have
been carried out in a manner which has not reduced the trench wall
permeability unless, for discharges less than 37 m
3
/d only, the native undisturbed permeable soil depth exceeds 1.35 m.
10 For lagoon systems, the maximum TSS level must not exceed 60
mg/L.
11 See section 5 (3) (g) of Schedule 7 for design requirements.
Schedule 5
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (gg) to (ii); 305/2007, s. 12.]
Geographical Areas Requiring Advanced Treatment
(8)
(Section 13 of this Regulation)
(Numeric values in parentheses refer to numbered explanations in
the explanatory notes, Appendix 1 to Schedule 5)
Table 1 — Discharges to Surface Waters
Geographical Area
Total Phosphorus
(annual average in mg L) (1)
(2)(3)(4)
Total Nitrogen
(mg/L)(1)
Minimum Outfall Depth (m)
Okanagan Basin (*)
<
0.25
< 6.0
> 40
Christina Lake Basin
<
0.25
—
—
Thompson River at Kamloops
<
0.25
—
—
Cowichan River
<
0.25
—
—
Nicola River at Merritt
<
0.25
—
—
Cheakamus River at Whistler
<
0.25
—
—
* discharges from treatment facilities not owned by a municipality
are prohibited
Table 2 — Discharges into Ground
Column A - Name of Aquifer
Column B - Location
Column C - Total Nitrogen Limit (mg/L) (5)
Abbotsford-Sumas Aquifer
Abbotsford
10
Hopington
Langley
10
Langley/Brookswood
Langley
10
Lower Nechako River
Prince George
10
Lower Cowichan River
Duncan
10
Grand Forks
Grand Forks
10
Merritt
Merritt
10
Osoyoos West
Osoyoos
10
Osoyoos East
Osoyoos
10
(**)
Osoyoos Lake to Tuc-el-Nuit Lake
10
Vedder River Fan
Chilliwack
10
(**)
Tuc-el Nuit Lake to Vaseux Lake
10
** As described in column B
Table 3 — General
Geographical Area
Requirements
Saanich Inlet
discharge restricted (6)
Shuswap Lake, Mara Lake and Lakes with a surface area less
than 100 ha
discharge restricted (7)
Southern Interior Region, Interior Douglas Fir Biogeoclimatic
Zone, the Ponderosa Pine Biogeoclimatic Zone, Montane Spruce
Biogeoclimatic Zone or the Bunchgrass Biogeoclimatic Zone
discharge to surface waters restricted (7)
Within the boundary of a commercial shellfish lease or known
native or recreational shellfish harvesting area
discharge prohibited
Appendix 1 to Schedule 5
Explanatory Notes
1 These levels refer to limits for direct discharges only;
irrigation activities within the watershed are exempt.
2 Alternative limits may be specified in writing by a director.
3 In lieu of an annual average, a maximum seasonal loading rate may
be established by a director.
4 Annual average to be calculated based on sampling method and
frequency to be established by a director.
5 A director may impose alternate requirements based on the
recommendations of an environmental impact study conducted by the
discharger.
6 Moratorium on discharges subject to an enhanced environmental
impact study to be undertaken as recommended by the Saanich Inlet
Study.
7 The discharger must conduct an environmental impact study with the
terms of reference to be established in consultation with a director
and must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the director that
advanced treatment will protect the receiving environment.
8 Limits specified in this Schedule are effluent quality limits.
Requirements of this Schedule are in addition to requirements
imposed by Schedule 3 or 4.
Schedule 6
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (jj) and (kk); 305/2007, s. 13.]
Monitoring Requirements
(1)(2)
(Section 26 of this Regulation)
(Numeric values in parentheses refer to numbered explanations in the
explanatory notes, Appendix 1 to Schedule 2)
Table 1 — Discharges to Surface Waters
Flow Category
Maximum Daily Flow Range (m
3
/d)
Frequency of Data Submission to Director
Flow (4)
BOD
5
,(3), TSS
NH
4
-N,
PO
4
-P,
total phosphorus Discharge to Freshwater Receiving Environment
NH
4
-N Discharge to Marine Receiving Environment
Fecal Coliforms (5)
Freq.
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
0
<10
2X/Y
2X/M
Q(6)
G
N
—
N
—
N
—
1
>
10 - <500
2X/Y
W
Q
G
N
—
N
—
Q
G
2
>500 - <5000
2X/Y
2X/W
M
G
6 X/Y
G
Q
G
6 X/Y
G
3
>
5000 - <50,000
2X/Y
D
W
G
M
G
6 X/Y
G
M
G
4
>
50,000 - <200,000
Q
D
2 X/W
C
3
2 X/M
C
3
M
C
3
2 X/M
G
5
>
200,000
Q
D
5 X/W
C
3
W
C
3
2 X/M
C
3
W
G
< means less than
>
means greater than or equal to
Table 2 — Discharges into Ground
Effluent Class
Flow Category
Maximum
Daily Flow
Range (m
3
/d)
Frequency of
Data Submission to
Director
Flow (4)
BOD
5
,
(3),
TSS
Nitrogen Total,
NO
3
as N
Turbidity
Fecal Coliforms
Freq.
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
D
1
<50
2X/Y
W
N
—
N
—
N
—
N
—
D
2
>
50 - <500
2X/Y
2 X/W
N
—
N
—
N
—
N
—
D
3
>
500
Q
D
N
—
N
—
N
—
N
—
C
1
<50
2X/Y
W
Q
G
N
—
N
—
N
—
C
2
>
50 - <500
2X/Y
2 X/W
M
G
N
—
N
—
N
—
C
3
>
500
Q
D
2 X/M
C
3
N
—
N
—
N
—
B
1
<50
2X/Y
W
M
G
N
—
N
—
N
—
B
2
>
50 - <500
2X/Y
2X/W
2 X/M
G
N
—
N
—
N
—
B
3
>
500
Q
D
W
C
3
N
—
N
—
N
—
A
1
<50
2X/Y
W
M
G
M
G
M
G
M
G
A
2
>
50 - <500
2X/Y
2 X/W
2 X/M
G
2 X/M
G
W
G
W
G
A
3
>
500
Q
D
W
C
3
W
C
3
D
C
3
D (7)
C
3
< means less than
>
means greater than or equal to
Table 3 — Toxicity Monitoring Requirements for Discharges to
Surface Waters
Flow
Category
Maximum Daily
Flow Range(m
3
/d)
Frequency
of Data Submission
to Director
Toxicity (8)
Column 4 -
Regular (9)
Column 5 - After
Confirmed
Failure (10)
Freq.
Type
Freq.
Type
0
<10
N
N
—
N
—
1
>
10 - <500
1/3Y
1/3Y
G
Q
G
2
>
500 - <5000
1/2Y
1/2Y
G
Q
G
3
>
5000 - <25000
A
A
G
6X/Y
G
3a
>
25000 - <50,000
2X/Y
Q
C
3
2X/M
C
3
4
>
50,000 - <200,000
Q
6X/Y
C
3
W
C
3
5
>
200,000
M
M
C
3
W
C
3
< means less than
>
means greater than or equal to
Appendix 1 to Schedule 6
Explanatory Notes
1 All of these requirements are minimum for the first two years of
discharge after which, based on the monitoring data, written
recommendations of a qualified professional, or any other
information related to the discharge or the receiving environment, a
director may in writing alter these requirements.
2 Sampling Frequency (Freq.) and Type
N
=
No monitoring requirement
1/3Y
=
Once every three years
1/2Y
=
Once every two years
A
=
Annually
Q
=
Quarterly
2 X/Y
=
Two times per year
6 X/Y
=
Six times per year
M
=
Monthly
2 X/M
=
Two times per month
W
=
Weekly
2 X/W
=
Two times per week
5 X/W
=
Five times per week
D
=
Daily
C
3
=
Sample composited in proportion to flow over 24 hours.
G
=
Grab sample
3 COD may be used in place of BOD
5
if BOD
5
is examined with COD every fifth sampling.
4 For seasonal or intermittent discharges, the discharger must meet
the requirements for frequency and sampling methods of flow
measurements and parameters to be analyzed as established by a
director.
5 Monitoring for fecal coliforms is only required if disinfection of
the effluent is a requirement.
6 For marine discharges in this flow category, monitoring of BOD
5
and TSS is not required.
7 Based on an initial 60 days of compliance with the quality limit,
the discharger must conduct weekly presence or absence testing for
coliform monitoring. If the presence of any coliform is detected,
daily fecal coliform testing must be reinstated until the quality
limit is in compliance. Fourteen tests must be conducted to
demonstrate that the discharge is back in compliance and then weekly
presence/absence testing must be resumed.
8 When conducting a confirmation toxicity test in accordance with
note 9 or when monitoring in accordance with column 5 of Table 3,
the discharger must also monitor ammonia levels at the same time.
The temperature and pH of the sample at the time of sampling must be
recorded.
9 If a toxicity test is failed, the discharger must notify a
director immediately and conduct a confirmation toxicity test within
7 days of the date the previous toxicity sample was taken.
10 If two consecutive toxicity tests are failed, monitoring is to be
conducted at a frequency specified by column 5, until three
consecutive toxicity tests are passed, after which testing reverts
to the frequency specified in column 4.
Schedule 7
[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 31 (ll) and (mm); 132/2006, s. 4;
305/2007, s. 14.]
Design Standards for Sewage Facilities
(Condition 11 in Schedule 1)
1
General
(1)  Environmental impact studies must be undertaken for
facility siting, as set out in condition 8 of Schedule 1.
(2)  The discharger must demonstrate to the satisfaction of a
director that any proposed alternative measures
(a) meet or exceed the requirements of this Schedule,
(b) do not adversely affect the performance of the sewage
facility, and
(c) do not adversely affect the receiving environment.
(3)  Based on any information related to the discharge or the
receiving environment, or both, a director may require additional
or alternative measures to protect the environment.
2
Treatment Facilities
(1)  Treatment facilities must be designed to achieve the
applicable effluent quality standards in Schedules 2 to 5 at all
times.
(2)  Design criteria must ensure that average effluent values
are substantially better than the maximum limits specified such
that the maximum limits are met at all times.
(3)  The design must consider the operation certification
level of staff and the availability of professional or specialist
advice.
(4)  Duplicate or standby facilities are required as
described in Appendix 1 to Schedule 7.
(5)  Reliability categories must be determined based on the
environmental impact study results.
(6)  Reliability categories are defined as follows:
(a)
Category I
- Treatment works for reclaimed water or that discharge to waters
or land that could be permanently or unacceptably damaged by
effluent that is degraded in quality for even a few hours (for
example, discharges near drinking water sources, shellfish waters
or waters used for contact sports where
"shellfish waters"
means water bodies that have or could have sufficient shellfish
quantities that recreational or commercial harvesting would take
place or water for which commercial shellfish leases have been
issued);
(b)
Category II
- Treatment works that discharge to waters or land that would not
be permanently or unacceptably damaged by short term effluent
degradation, but would be damaged by continued (several days)
effluent quality degradation (for example discharges to
recreational land and waters);
(c)
Category III
- Treatment works not otherwise designated as Category I or II.
(7)  Biosolids or sludge must not be discharged into
outfalls.
(8)  Disinfectants must be completely mixed with effluent
before entering the contact tanks.
(9)  Septic tanks must have a hydraulic capacity of at least
2 day minimum detention time at maximum daily flow.
3
Pumping Facilities
(1)  A minimum of 2 pumps are required with each pump capable
of pumping peak design flows.
(2)  For larger pumping stations where multiple pumps are
required, the station must have sufficient capacity to pump peak
design flow with the largest pump out of service.
(3)  Standby power is required as follows:
(a) for a 2 pump station, a receptacle for a portable
generator;
(b) for a multiple pump station, an on-site generator.
(4)  Provision must be made so that standby power is
activated prior to the hydraulic capacity of the pump station
being exceeded.
4
Outfalls
(1)  Outfall analysis and design must be carried out by a
qualified professional.
(2)  Outfall design must be according to initial dilution
zone specifications (section 5 of this regulation) and incorporate
the following minimum standards:
(a) an outfall diffuser must be designed and located
(i)  at a sufficient depth to maximize the frequency that
trapping of the effluent below the surface of the water body
occurs,
(ii)  to ensure that the discharge does not cause water
quality parameters, outside the initial dilution zone, to exceed
known water quality guidelines,
(iii)  to intercept the predominant current and avoid small
currents that tend to move in toward the shore, and
(iv)  in the channel in which most of the water of the river
or stream flows to achieve maximum dilution;
(b) an outfall to marine waters, estuaries, or lakes with a
surface area greater than 100 ha, must meet the depth, flow and
distance standards set out in Appendix 2 to Schedule 7;
(c) subject to the requirements of Schedule 5, the minimum
depth below mean low water for any outfall located in marine
waters, or lakes with a surface area greater than 100 ha, is 10 m;
(d) a diffuser section that will provide a minimum 10:1
dilution within the initial dilution zone;
(e) the prevention of air entrapment;
(f) protection from wave, boat and marine activity;
(g) adequate weighting to prevent movement from currents, ice
or possible entrainment of air;
(h) corrosion protection;
(i) protection from damage during construction.
5
Discharges into Ground
(1)  Design must be carried out by qualified professional.
(2)  The following standards must apply to exfiltration and
rapid infiltration basins:
(a) at least 2 basins must be provided, to allow cleaning of
one basin to proceed while the other is in operation, and to act
as a safety factor for unusual conditions;
(b) for 2 basin systems, each basin must be capable of
accepting all the effluent under annual average rainfall
conditions;
(c) setbacks as specified in subsection (3) (h) must be
provided.
(3)  If disposal is by sub-surface means, the following
standards must apply:
(a) the land area must be sufficient to permit application
rates as shown in Schedule 4;
(b) percolation rates must be determined by a qualified
professional acting within the qualified professional's area of
expertise;
(c) examination by a qualified professional is required and
if percolation time is greater than 20 minutes, the bed hydraulics
must be confirmed by a hydrogeological assessment;
(d) sub-surface fields and a surrounding buffer strip at
least as wide as the distance prescribed by Row 2 of the Table H
must be kept free of building or hard surfacing of any kind and
must not be put to uses which may cause damage to the system or
interfere with its operation;
(e) septic tanks have a screen or filter and must be
accessible for pumpout, inspected annually and must be pumped out
a minimum of once every 3 years or at a frequency sufficient to
ensure that sludge accumulation does not exceed 20% of the tank
depth. Records of pumpout frequency must be submitted to a
director with the annual report;
(f) a pressure distribution system must be used for drainage
pipes fed by a dosing syphon or pump;
(g) the drainage pipes must be provided in 2 fields with a
third undeveloped field being retained as a standby area.
Drainfields must be constructed with trenches on 3 m on-centre
spacing. If a qualified professional determines that the
performance of the drainfield is not adversely altered by varying
the spacing a minimum spacing of 2 m is permissible. In the case
where less than 3 m on-centre spacing is used, the standby area
must be doubled. Except if reductions in length are allowed, each
of the 2 developed fields is to have at least the length of
drainage pipe indicated in Table 4 of Schedule 4;
(h) drainfields setback requirements in addition to those
specified in Schedule 4:
Table H — Minimum Setback Requirements
Feature
Minimum Setback Distance
Maximum Daily Flow
<37 m
3
/d
>
37 m
3
/d
Row 1
property boundary
3 m
6 m
Row 2
building drain(*)
5 m
10 m
Row 3
Christina Lake
**
**
Row 4
surface water
30 m
30 m
Row 5
surface water within Okanagan basin
30 m
150 m
Row 6
water well
60 m
90 m
Row 7
water well within an unconfined aquifer
60 m(***)
300 m(****)
(*)
The sewage treatment facility itself is to be considered as
a building;
(**)
As determined by adherence to Christina Lake Official
Community Plan;
(***)
Based on a hydrogeological assessment to determine the
minimum distance required to protect water quality of the
water well distance from water well must be extended
accordingly;
(****)
Based on a hydrogeological assessment conducted by the
discharger to determine the minimum distance required to
protect water quality of the water well, the distance from
the water well may be reduced or extended as required by a
director. In no case shall the distance be less than 90 m;
(i) subsurface visual inspection capability must be provided;
(j) trenches must be a minimum of 0.6 m in width. Trench
bottoms must be at least 0.3 m below the pipe invert. Pipe cover
must meet local frost protection requirements but must not be less
than 0.15 m. The drainage pipe must be no less than 70 mm in
diameter, unless a pressure distribution system is utilized;
(k) seepage beds or mounds must be constructed using AMERICAN
SOCIETY OF TESTING MATERIALS C33 sand and must receive written
approval from a director.
(4)  If required, monitoring wells must be installed as
determined by a qualified professional in sufficient number and
orientation to measure background and receiving environment water
quality. Horizontal as well as vertical arrays for sampling must
be considered. At least 4 wells per aquifer are necessary, one of
which must be a background monitoring well.
6
Reclaimed Water Application
(1)  Subject to note 1 to Appendix 1 to Schedule 2, the type
of reclaimed water use must be one of those indicated in Schedule
2.
(2)  The provider of reclaimed water must ensure that the
design ensures that the Health and Safety Criteria for use of
reclaimed water as set out in Appendix 3 to Schedule 7 are met.
(3)  If application of reclaimed water is by irrigation, the
following standards must apply:
(a) if application of reclaimed water is not continuous,
seasonal storage or an alternative method of disposal that
complies with the standards set out in Schedules 3 and 4 is
required;
(b) storage ponds must be provided to contain the design
average daily effluent flow occurring outside the growing season,
plus an allowance from an analysis of the cumulative volumes
needed for a reduced irrigation season due to at least 5 years of
wet weather equivalent to rainfall or snowmelt events with a
5-year return period. Average rain, seepage and evaporation
conditions must be accounted for in the design;
(c) the design area to be used for reclaimed water
application must be sufficient so that effluent discharge will not
be necessary under the following conditions:
(i)  outside the growing season;
(ii)  for restricted public access category
(A)  during and for 3 days prior to harvesting of crops;
(B)  during and for 6 days prior to grazing by dairy cattle;
(C)  during and for 3 days prior to pasturing by livestock
other than dairy cattle unless the meat is inspected under the
Federal Meat Inspection Program;
(d) the restricted public access reclaimed water must be
confined to the area designated and approved for use by a
director;
(e) maximum ground surface slope must not exceed 20%, unless
greater slopes are approved in writing by a director.
(4)  For reclaimed water meeting the unrestricted public
access category, the constructed drain field length, as specified
in Table 4 to Schedule 4, can be reduced provided the requirements
set out in condition 8 of Schedule 1 are met. If design flows have
been applied for a period of 5 years without hydraulic problems, a
director may, subject to recommendation by a suitably qualified
professional, allow the area of the fields to be reduced.
Appendix 1 to Schedule 7
Equipment and Process Reliability Category for Treatment
Facilities
Component
Reliability Category
I
II
III
Treatment
System
Power
Source
Treatment
System
Power
Source
Treatment
System
Power
Source
Holding basin
Adequate capacity for all flows
Not applicable
Not applicable
Degritting
Optional
No
No
Primary sedimentation
Multiple units
a
Yes
Same as category I
Yes
Two minimum
a
Yes
Trickling filters
Multiple units
b
Yes
Same as category I
Optional
No backup
No
Aeration basins
Multiple units
b
Yes
Same as category I
Optional
Single unit permissible
No
Blowers or mechanical aerators
Multiple units
c
Yes
Same as category I
Optional
Two minimum
c
No
Diffusers
Multiple sections
d
Same as category I
Same as category I
Final sedimentation
Multiple units
b
Yes
Multiple units
a
Optional
Two minimum
a
No
Chemical flash mixer
Two minimum or backup
e
Optional
No backup
Optional
Same as category II
No
Chemical sedimentation
Multiple units
b
Optional
No backup
Optional
Same as category II
No
Flocculation
Two minimum
a
Optional
No backup
Optional
Same as category II
No
Effluent filters
Two minimum
b
Yes
Same as category 1
Yes
Same as category I
Yes
Disinfection basins
Multiple units
b
Yes
Multiple units
a
Yes
Same as category II
No
Aerobic digesters
Two minimum
a
Yes
Same as category 1
Optional
Single Unit
No
Anaerobic digesters
Two minimum
a
Yes
Same as category 1
Optional
Two Minimum
No
Facultative lagoons
Two cells
b
Two cells
Two cells
Aerated lagoons
Two cells
b
Yes
Two cells
Optional
Two cells
No
Package treatment plants
Multiple units
b,f
or ability to repair within 48 hours
Yes
Two units or ability to repair single unit within 48 hours
Yes
Single unit may be permissible
No
a Remaining capacity with largest unit out of service must be for
at least 50% of the design maximum flow.
b Remaining capacity with largest unit out of service must be for
at least 75% of the design maximum flow.
c Remaining capacity with largest unit out of service must be able
to achieve design maximum oxygen transfer; backup unit need not be
installed.
d Maximum oxygen transfer capability must not be measurably
impaired with largest section out of service.
e If only one basin, backup system must be provided with at least
2 mixing devices (one may be installed).
f Effluent filtration is required in conjunction with ground
disposal.
Appendix 2 to Schedule 7
Outfall Depth, Flow and Distance Calculations
for Marine, Estuary and Lake Discharges
1
For discharges less than 5000 m
3
/d,
(a) Q
c
must be greater than or equal to Q
a
, where:
Q
a
=
the maximum daily flow (m
3
/d),
Q
c
=
the calculated critical flow (m
3
/d) and is calculated as described below,
D
=
depth (m) of the shallowest diffuser port below mean low
water and must be equal to or greater than 10 m, and
d
=
distance (m) to the closest port of the diffuser from the
mean low water mark and must be equal to or greater than 30
m
and
(b) Q
c
must be the greater positive value of Q
c1
or Q
c2
, where:
Q
c1
=
(D+0.075d-21) / 0.0029
and
Q
c2
=
(D+0.075d-12.225) / 0.025
2
For outfalls with a diffuser, the terminus, for the purposes of
the calculation in note 1, must be considered as the closest and
shallowest port.
3
For discharges greater than 5000 m
3
/d, depth and distance to be determined by environmental impact
study and computer modeling of the discharge.
Appendix 3 to Schedule 7
Health and Safety Criteria for use of Reclaimed Water
1
Construction Criteria
(1)  All reclaimed water valves, outlets, quick couplers and
sprinkler heads must be of a type or secured in a manner that only
permits operation by personnel authorized by the user. All piping,
valves and outlets must be marked to differentiate reclaimed water
from domestic water. All reclaimed water controllers, valves,
etc., must be affixed with reclaimed water warning signs. All
piping must be of a distinct colour to differentiate reclaimed
water from domestic water.
(2)  Use or installation of hose-bibbs on any irrigation
system presently operating, or designed to operate with reclaimed
water, regardless of the hose-bibb construction or identification,
is not permitted unless it can be demonstrated to a director that
special circumstances justify their use.
(3)  There must be at least a 3 metre horizontal and a 0.3
metre vertical separation (with domestic water above the reclaimed
water pipeline) between all pipelines transporting reclaimed water
and those transporting domestic water.
(4)  There must be no irrigation or impoundment of reclaimed
water within 30 metres of any water well or in-ground reservoir
used for domestic supply unless it can be demonstrated to a
director that special circumstances justify lesser distances to be
acceptable.
(5)  There must be no connection between a potable water
supply, irrigation water or industrial wells and piping containing
reclaimed water, except through an air gap separation or reduced
pressure principle device.
(6)  Impoundments must have perimeter signs indicating that
the reclaimed water stored is not safe for drinking (e.g.
ATTENTION: RECLAIMED WASTEWATER - DO NOT DRINK, Bliss symbols
should be used).
(7)  Impoundments must be designed, operated and maintained
to minimize fluid leakage. Any leakage must not aggravate or
produce soil or bedrock instability or erosion elsewhere or impact
ground or surface water quality.
(8)  The perimeter of the disposal area must be graded to
prevent ponding along public roads or other public areas.
(9)  For the restricted public access category of reclaimed
water, fencing or other barriers must be installed, where needed,
to restrict public access.
(10)  At areas irrigated with reclaimed water, warning signs
must be posted in sufficient numbers and size and at strategic
locations to advise the public that reclaimed water is being used
and is not safe for drinking purposes and for the restricted
public use category for personal contact as well (e.g., Warning
-RECLAIMED WATER - AVOID CONTACT - DO NOT DRINK; Bliss symbols,
and the "Mr. Yuck" symbol).
2
Operation Criteria
(1)  Restricted public access reclaimed water must be
confined to the area designated and approved for use (e.g.,
windblown spray must be prevented from leaving the property). For
use of reclaimed water on parks, playgrounds and school grounds
the reclaimed water provider must ensure that no direct contact
between the reclaimed water and any person occurs while irrigation
is occurring.
(2)  Precautions must be taken to ensure that reclaimed water
will not have contact with any facility or area not designated for
use, such as passing vehicles, buildings, domestic water
facilities or food handling facilities.
(3)  Drinking water facilities must be protected from direct
or windblown reclaimed water spray.
(4)  Tank trucks and other equipment which are used to
distribute reclaimed water must be clearly identified with warning
signs.
(5)  Adequate measures must be taken to prevent the breeding
of insects and other vectors of health significance, and the
creation of odors, slimes or unsightly deposits.
(6)  Golf score cards and signage posted at visible locations
must indicate that reclaimed water is used.
(7)  Irrigation with reclaimed water must not occur within 60
m of areas where food is handled or consumed.
(8)  Irrigation must be controlled to prevent ponding and
run-off of reclaimed water.
(9)  Direct public contact with reclaimed water must be
minimized.
(10)  A contingency plan including provisions for
notification of local health authorities, must be developed
outlining the action to be taken in the event effluent quality
fails to meet required standards and which identifies alternative
methods of disposal during a series of wet years.
3
Notification
(1)  The provider of reclaimed water must provide, on
request, to a director and to local health authorities reports
containing information on:
(a) the quality and quantity of reclaimed water;
(b) the use (method of irrigation and the crop(s) and area(s)
irrigated);
(c) the reason for non-compliance with these health criteria,
if appropriate, and corrective action taken.
[Provisions of the
Environmental Management Act
, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
sections 138 and 139]
Section 1 definition of "known", paragraph (a) BEFORE amended by BC
Reg 4/2010, effective January 14, 2010.
(a) identified by or made available from the Ministry of Water,
Land and Air Protection, or
Section 2 (2) (d) was added by BC Reg 252/2009, effective October
29, 2009.
Section 2 (3) was added by BC Reg 252/2009, effective October 29,
2009.
Section 3 (4), (5) and (6) BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 252/2009,
effective October 29, 2009.
(4)  If, under subsection (2),
(a) a person registers in relation to the discharge of effluent
to Shuswap Lake, and
(b) the registration is received by a director on or before
November 1, 2009,
despite subsection (3), the registration does not take effect.
(5)  If, under condition 2 of Schedule 1, a discharger provides
notification that is
(a) in relation to increasing the discharger's maximum daily
flow of discharge to Shuswap Lake, and
(b) received by a director on or before November 1, 2009,
despite section 2 (1), the person is not exempt under that section
for the increase to which the notification relates.
(6)  Subsection (5) does not apply to a discharger that
increased its maximum daily flow of discharge to Shuswap Lake in the
30 days immediately before November 17, 2005.
Section 25 (1) (a) and (b) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 4/2010,
effective January 14, 2010.
(a) sampling and flow measurements are carried out in
accordance with the procedures described in "British Columbia Field
Sampling Manual for Continuous Monitoring plus the Collection of
Air, Air-Emission, Water, Wastewater, Soil, Sediment and Biological
Samples" as published by the Ministry of Water, Land and Air
Protection", and as amended from time to time, or by a suitable
alternative procedure as authorized by a director, and
(b) analysis is carried out in accordance with the procedures
described in "British Columbia Environmental Laboratory Manual for
the Analysis of Waters, Wastewaters, Sediments and Biological
Materials", as published by the Ministry of Water, Land and Air
Protection, and as amended from time to time, or by suitable
alternative procedures as authorized by a director.
Schedule 2, Appendix 1, Note 17 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 4/2010,
effective January 14, 2010.
17 Discharger must consult with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Fisheries regarding the difference between spraying for frost
protection and spring frost protection techniques.
