"point in time" regulation content British columbia transit act British columbia transit regulation B.c. reg. 30/91 Note:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the Changes made on the effective date. (pit covers changes made From september 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the Regulation.)
Section
Effective date Section 1
October 13, 2015
Section 2
October 13, 2015
March 28, 2018
March 11, 2019
March 6, 2020
Section 4
October 13, 2015
Section 7
October 13, 2015
Section 8
October 13, 2015
Section 9
October 13, 2015
Section 9.1
March 1, 2017
Section 10
October 13, 2015
Section 13
March 1, 2017
Section 14
March 1, 2017
Section 15
October 13, 2015
Section 16
March 1, 2017
Section 17
March 1, 2017
Section 18
October 13, 2015
Section 1 definition of "annual lease fee" before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
"annual lease fee" Means an amount determined in accordance with section 15 and charged Annually in respect of revenue equipment and other physical assets Acquired by lease or otherwise; Section 2 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Sharing of cost — victoria regional transit service area 2 During a year commencing on april 1, for transit services in the Victoria regional transit service area, (a) The regional transit commission must contribute 68.30% and the Authority must contribute 31.70% of the amounts required to defray The classes of expenses described in section 9 (1) (a), (b) The regional transit commission must contribute 37.0% and the Authority must contribute 63.0% of the amounts required to defray The classes of expenses described in section 9 (1) (b), and (c) The regional transit commission must contribute 100% and the Authority must contribute 0.00% of the amounts required to defray The classes of expenses described in section 9 (1) (d).
[en. b.c. reg. 122/93; am. b.c. regs. 94/94, s. 1; 89/99, s. 2; 346/2003, s. 2; 122/2004; 54/2006; 69/2007; 54/2008.] Section 2 before re-enacted by bc reg 63/2018, effective march 28, 2018.
Repealed
2 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 189/2015, s. (b).] Section 2 (3) (a) and (b) before amended by bc reg 48/2019, Effective march 11, 2019.
(3) (a) The regional transit commission must contribute 62.6%, the authority Must contribute 29.1% and the regional transit commission and the Authority must jointly contribute from the operating reserve Referred to in section 10 (1) (j) 8.3% of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses described subsection (2) (a) of this Section,
(b) The regional transit commission must contribute 36.0%, the authority Must contribute 61.1% and the regional transit commission and the Authority must jointly contribute from the operating reserve Referred to in section 10 (1) (j) 2.9% of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses described subsection (2) (b) of this Section, and Section 2 (4) was added by bc reg 48/2019, effective march 11, 2019.
Section 2 (5) was added by bc reg 51/2020, effective march 6, 2020.
Section 4 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Sharing of cost — municipalities 4 Subject to part 2, the portion of the annual cost of providing Transit service that shall be contributed by a municipality and The authority for providing transit service under an annual Operating agreement are set out in section 7.
[am. b.c. reg. 346/2003, s. 3.] Section 7 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Sharing of cost — 4th and subsequent years 7 Subject to part 2, during each year of a transit service Agreement,
(a) The municipality shall contribute 53.31% and the authority shall Contribute 46.69% of the amounts required to defray the classes of Expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a), and (b) The municipality shall contribute 33.31% and the authority shall Contribute 66.69% of the amounts required to defray the classes of Expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (b).
[am. b.c. regs. 89/99, ss. 2 and 3; 346/2003, s. 5.] Section 8 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Annual cost determination — municipal sharing 8 (1) The classes of expenses which shall be taken into account in Determining the annual cost of providing the transit services Under section 11 (2) (a) of the act are:
(a) For conventional transit service:
(i) The operating costs incurred in providing conventional transit Service;
(ii) The amount of any annual lease fee and any amount required to Amortize all capital expenditures, including interest accrued During construction, incurred for fixed assets accepted for Conventional transit services; (iii) The amount of the municipal administration charge not exceeding 2% Of the direct operating costs payable under an annual operating Agreement;
(iv) An amount of the annual operating costs of the authority not Exceeding 8% of the direct operating costs payable under an annual Operating agreement; (b) For custom transit service:
(i) The operating costs incurred in providing custom transit service, Including the amount paid by the authority to redeem taxi saver Coupons issued under the taxi saver program after deducting from That amount the amount realized from the sale of those coupons; (ii) The amount of any annual lease fee and any amount required to Amortize all capital expenditures, including interest accrued During construction, incurred for fixed assets accepted for custom Transit service; (iii) The amount of the municipal administration charge not exceeding 2% Of the direct operating costs payable under an annual operating Agreement;
(iv) An amount of the annual operating costs of the authority not Exceeding 8% of the direct operating costs payable under an annual Operating agreement.
(2) In addition to the classes of expenses referred to in subsection (1), the costs of and related to servicing debt incurred by each Of the authority and the province for the purpose of acquiring Assets to be used in the operation of the public passenger Transportation system constitutes a class of expenses that must be Taken into account in determining the annual cost of providing the Transit service under section 11 of the act, and the Municipality shall contribute that percentage of the amounts Required to defray that class of expenses that, under Section 7, is the percentage applicable to the capital Expenditure in relation to which the debt was incurred.
[am. b.c. regs. 1/96, s. 1; 89/99, ss. 2 and 5; 346/2003, s. 6.] Section 9 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Annual cost determination — regional transit service area 9 (1) The classes of expenses which shall be taken into account in Determining the annual cost of providing transit services under Section 12 (2) (a) of the act are:
(a) For conventional transit service:
(i) The operating costs incurred in providing conventional transit Service within the regional transit service area; (ii) The amount of any annual lease fee and any amount required to Amortize all capital expenditures, including interest accrued During construction, incurred for fixed assets accepted for Conventional transit service within the regional transit service Area;
(iii) The annual operating costs of the authority, and any annual lease Fee and any amount required to amortize capital expenditures, Including interest during construction, incurred for fixed assets Acquired for the operation of the authority; (b) For custom transit service:
(i) The operating costs incurred in providing custom transit service Within the regional transit service area, including the amount Paid by the authority to redeem taxi saver coupons issued under The taxi saver program after deducting from that amount the amount Realized from the sale of those coupons; (ii) The amount of any annual lease fee and any amount required to Amortize all capital expenditures, including interest accrued During construction, incurred for fixed assets accepted for custom Transit service within the regional transit service area; (c) Repealed. [b.c. reg. 89/99, s. 4.] (d) For a transit service prescribed for a regional transit service Area in a regulation made by the applicable regional transit Commission and approved by order of the lieutenant governor in Council:
(i) The operating cost incurred in providing the transit service Within the regional transit service area; (ii) The amount of any annual lease fee and any amount required, after A date specified by the authority, to amortize all capital Expenditures, including interest accrued during construction Incurred for fixed assets accepted for the transit service within The regional transit service area.
(2) In addition to the classes of expenses referred to in subsection (1), the costs of and related to servicing debt incurred by each Of the authority and the province for the purpose of acquiring Assets to be used in the operation of the public passenger Transportation system constitutes a class of expenses that must be Taken into account in determining the annual cost of providing the Transit service under section 12 of the act, and the Commission shall contribute that percentage of the amounts Required to defray that class of expenses that, under Section 2 is the percentage applicable to the capital Expenditure in relation to which the debt was incurred.
[am. b.c. regs. 94/94, s. 3; 1/96, s. 2; 89/99, ss. 2, 4 and 6.] Section 9.1 before repealed by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
Annual cost determination — commuter rail service 9.1 (1) In this section, "operating costs" Has the same meaning as in the operating agreement pertaining to The commuter rail service.
(2) The classes of expenditures which shall be taken into account Under section 13 of the act in determining the annual cost of a Commuter rail service provided in part in a municipality and in Part within a regional transit service area are the operating Costs incurred in providing that commuter rail service.
[en. b.c. reg. 423/95, s. 2.] Section 10 (1) (a.1), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) were added by Bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Section 10 (2) before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
(2) The authority and a municipality shall enter into a separate annual Operating agreement with each person operating a transit service in A local transit service area.
Section 13 (2) before repealed by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
(2) Where a municipality or regional transit commission imposes or Prescribes taxes under section 17 (15) of the act, the relationships Between tax rates on each property class to the rate on class 6 Shall be the relationships shown in the following schedule:
Schedule
Class of property Ratio to class 1 rate 2 1.43 : 1 4 1.39 : 1 5 1.39 : 1 6 1 : 1 Section 14 (1) before amended by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
(1) A person specified in subsection (2) (a) is exempt from liability Under the act, the Assessment authority act , the School act , the Hospital district act , the Municipal finance authority act , the Municipal act And the Vancouver charter For taxation of lands and improvements designated in subsection (2) (b).
Section 14 (2) (a) (iv) and (v) before amended by bc reg 53/2017, Effective march 1, 2017.
(iv) The greater vancouver transportation authority; (v) Rapid transit project 2000 ltd, and Section 14 (2) (b) (ii) before amended by bc reg 53/2017, effective March 1, 2017.
(ii) Are owned, used or maintained by the authority or the rapid transit Project 2000 ltd. for the purpose of the construction, acquisition Or operation of the a.l.r.t. system, or are maintained by the British columbia parkway society on behalf of the authority or the Rapid transit project 2000 ltd., including land and improvements Within the a.l.r.t. system which the authority or the rapid transit Project 2000 ltd. makes accessible for public recreational uses.
Section 14 (3) definition of a.l.r.t. before amended by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
"a.l.r.t. system" Means the rail transit system known as the advanced light rapid Transit system, including the rapid transit project defined in Section 1 (1) of the Greater vancouver transportation authority act ; Section 15 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Annual lease fee 15 (1) The annual lease fee for revenue equipment and other physical Assets owned or leased by the authority shall be (a) Calculated as the sum of all lease costs incurred by the Authority, where the asset is leased by the authority, or (b) The amount required to recover the cost of the asset less its Estimated salvage value and related interest charges over the Useful life of the asset, where the asset is purchased by the Authority,
Plus an additional percentage of the lease value or cost of the Asset to be determined by the authority and for the purpose of Establishing a general reserve for the preventive maintenance and Major repair of the authority's asset pool, plus an amount Sufficient for the authority to recover all other costs incurred Relating to the asset, including but not limited to taxes and Administrative charges.
(2) Where an asset is acquired after the first day of a fiscal year, The annual lease fee shall be determined as if the asset had been Acquired on the first day of the fiscal year, and reduced by 1/12 For every month of the fiscal year that had elapsed prior to the Acquisition of the asset.
(3) Where an asset is retired prior to the last day of a fiscal year, The annual lease fee shall be determined as if the asset had been Retired on the last day of that fiscal year and reduced by 1/12 For each month of the fiscal year remaining subsequent to the Retirement of the asset.
Section 16 before repealed by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
Deficiency interest 16 For the purposes of section 11.11 (3) (b) 1 Of the act, interest shall accrue on the deficiency at the rate of 6.45% per annum.
[en. b.c. reg. 192/93.] 1.
When this section was enacted, it referred to section 11.11 (3) (b) of the British columbia transit act , r.s.b.c. 1979, c. 421.
Section 17 before re-enacted by bc reg 53/2017, effective march 1, 2017.
Instalment of taxes 17 For the purposes of section 16 (2) (a) of the act, where taxes are Collected under section 15 or 17 (15) of the act, the municipality Or the surveyor of taxes collecting those taxes shall, on or Before the 15th day of each calendar month, pay to the authority All of those taxes collected by the municipality or the surveyor Of taxes, as the case may be, during the preceding calendar month.
[en. b.c. reg. 185/94, s. 2.] Section 18 before repealed by bc reg 189/2015, effective october 13, 2015.
Contributions by municipalities 18 The portions of the annual cost of providing transit service that Must be contributed by a municipality referred to in this section And by the authority are as follows:
(a) For each fiscal year, the city of penticton must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of penticton, The authority and penticton transit service ltd., as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of The amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed In section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (b) For each fiscal year, the cowichan valley regional district must Contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year, made between the Cowichan valley regional district, the authority and the gray line Of victoria, as amended from time to time, and the authority must Contribute the balance, of the amounts required to defray the Classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (c) For each fiscal year, the city of prince rupert must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of prince Rupert, the authority and coastal bus lines ltd., as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of The amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed In section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (d) For each fiscal year, the city of kamloops must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of kamloops, The authority and farwest coach, inc., as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation, and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of kamloops, The authority and farwest coach, inc., as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (e) For each fiscal year, the regional district of north okanagan must Contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional District of north okanagan, the authority and kia transit ltd., as Amended from time to time, and the authority must contribute the Balance of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this Regulation;
(f) For each fiscal year, the city of kelowna must contribute 53.31%, Or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to contribute as Specified in the annual operating agreement applicable to that Fiscal year made between the city of kelowna, the authority and Farwest transit services inc., as amended from time to time, and The authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts required To defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (g) For each fiscal year, the regional district of central okanagan Must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional District of central okanagan, the authority and farwest transit Services inc., as amended from time to time, and the authority Must contribute the balance, of the amounts required to defray the Classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (h) For each fiscal year, the city of prince george must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of prince George, the authority and prince george transit ltd., as amended From time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, Of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this Regulation;
(i) For each fiscal year, the regional district of comox-strathcona Must contribute 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional District of comox-strathcona, the authority and watson & ash Transportation co. ltd., as amended from time to time, and the Authority must contribute the balance of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (j) For each fiscal year, the city of fort st. john must contribute 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of fort st.
John, the authority and nordbo services ltd., as amended from time To time, and the authority must contribute the balance of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (k) For each fiscal year, the sunshine coast regional district must Contribute
(i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the sunshine coast Regional district and the authority, as amended from time to time, And the authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts Required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation, and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the sunshine coast Regional district and the authority, as amended from time to time, And the authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts Required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (l) For each fiscal year, the resort municipality of whistler must Contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year made between the resort Municipality of whistler, the authority and whistler transit ltd., As amended from time to time, and the authority must contribute The balance of the amounts required to defray the classes of Expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of This regulation; (m) For each fiscal year, the city of abbotsford must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of Abbotsford, the authority and township transit service inc., as Amended from time to time, and the authority must contribute the Balance, of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this Regulation;
(n) For each fiscal year, the district of mission must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the district of Mission, the authority and township transit service inc., as Amended from time to time, and the authority must contribute the Balance, of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this Regulation;
(o) For each fiscal year, the regional district of comox-strathcona Must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality Agrees to contribute as specified in the annual operating Agreement applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional District of comox-strathcona, the authority and watson & ash Transportation co. ltd., as amended from time to time, and the Authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (p) For each fiscal year, the district of powell river must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the district of powell River and the authority, as amended from time to time, and the Authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (q) For each fiscal year, the district of salmon arm must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the district of salmon Arm, the authority and kia transit ltd., as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (r) For each fiscal year, the district of kitimat must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of quesnel, The authority and five five transport, as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation, and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of quesnel, The authority and five five transport, as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (s) For each fiscal year, the town of osoyoos must contribute 53.31%, Or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to contribute as Specified in the annual operating agreement applicable to that Fiscal year made between the town of osoyoos, the authority and South okanagan transit society, as amended from time to time, and The authority must contribute the balance, of the amounts required To defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (t) For each fiscal year, the city of quesnel must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of quesnel, The authority and five five transport, as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation, and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of quesnel, The authority and five five transport, as amended from time to Time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (u) For each fiscal year, the city of revelstoke must contribute 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of Revelstoke, the authority and sid arrow holdings ltd., as amended From time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, Of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this Regulation;
(v) For each fiscal year, the city of williams lake must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of williams Lake, the authority and laker's go-bus society, as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of The amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed In section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation, and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of williams Lake, the authority and laker's go-bus society, as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance, of The amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed In section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of this regulation; (w) For each fiscal year, the town of princeton must contribute 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreement Applicable to that fiscal year made between the town of princeton, The authority and princeton & district community services, as Amended from time to time, and the authority must contribute the Balance of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv); (x) For each fiscal year, the regional district of central kootenay Must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional district Of central kootenay, the authority and grouse mountain Transportation, arrow & slocan lake community services and Trail transit services inc., as amended from time to time, and the Authority must contribute the balance of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv), and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional district Of central kootenay, the authority and grouse mountain Transportation, arrow & slocan lake community services and Trail transit services inc., as amended from time to time, and the Authority must contribute the balance of the amounts required to Defray the classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv); (y) For each fiscal year, the city of kimberley must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of kimberley, The authority and kimberley transportation committee, as amended From time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance Of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv), and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the city of kimberley, The authority and kimberley transportation committee, as amended From time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance Of the amounts required to defray the classes of expenses Prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv); (z) For each fiscal year, the regional district of kootenay boundary Must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional district Of kootenay boundary, the authority and trail transit services Inc., as amended from time to time, and the authority must Contribute the balance of the amounts required to defray the Classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv), and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the regional district Of kootenay boundary, the authority and trail transit services Inc., as amended from time to time, and the authority must Contribute the balance of the amounts required to defray the Classes of expenses prescribed in section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv); (aa) For each fiscal year, the district of squamish must contribute (i) 53.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the district of Squamish, the authority and whistler transit ltd., as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (a) (i), (iii) and (iv), and (ii) 33.31%, or any greater percentage the municipality agrees to Contribute as specified in the annual operating agreements Applicable to that fiscal year made between the district of Squamish, the authority and whistler transit ltd., as amended from Time to time, and the authority must contribute the balance of the Amounts required to defray the classes of expenses prescribed in Section 8 (1) (b) (i), (iii) and (iv).
[en. b.c. reg. 346/2003, s. 7; am. b.c. regs. 347/2003; 75/2004; 76/2004; 158/2004; 250/2004; 82/2005; 290/2005; 1/2006; 79/2006.]