"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Motor Vehicle Act
Voluntary Identification Card Regulation
B.C. Reg. 465/88
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 4/2013, effective February 10,
2013.
B.C. Reg. 465/88
O.C. 2147/88
Deposited November 25, 1988
effective January 1, 1989
Motor Vehicle Act
Voluntary Identification Card Regulation
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"applicant"
means a person who applies for an identification card.
"identification card"
means a British Columbia identification card;
"outstanding charge"
means a charge
(a) in respect of which an Information has been sworn,
(b) in respect of an offence that is an indictable offence or
an offence that is being proceeded with by way of indictment, and
(c) that has not been disposed of by a court.
[am. B.C. Reg. 147/2009, Sch. 2, s. 2.]
Application
2
A person who resides in the Province may apply for an
identification card by delivering an application to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, in a form satisfactory to the
corporation.
[am. B.C. Reg. 314/96, s. 1.]
Requirements
3
(1)  The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must issue
a numbered identification card in a form established by the
corporation to an applicant who has
(a) met the requirements of section 2,
(b) had his or her picture taken digitally or electronically
and supplied a signature by a means required by the corporation
that allows the signature to be stored electronically in a data
base,
(c) provided his legal name and residential address,
(d) identified himself to the Insurance Corporation of
British Columbia's satisfaction,
(e) surrendered any previously held voluntary identification
cards, and
(f) paid the fee in item 12 of the Schedule to the Motor
Vehicle Fees Regulation.
(1.1)  An applicant for an identification card who wishes the
identification card to indicate that the person is a Canadian
citizen must, in addition to the requirements in subsection (1),
(a) provide documentary proof of Canadian citizenship
satisfactory to the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,
(b) sign an application in the form required by the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia, and
(c) be at least 12 years of age and, in the case of an
applicant under 19 years of age, apply in person for the card and
be accompanied by one of the applicant's parents or guardians who
must sign the application.
(1.2)  An applicant for an identification card that indicates
the applicant is a Canadian citizen is not eligible for the card
if
(a) the applicant is the subject of an outstanding charge,
(b) the applicant is subject to conditions imposed by a court
or parole board that forbid the applicant to leave Canada, or
(c) the applicant holds a driver's licence issued under
section 25 (7) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
that indicates the person is a Canadian citizen.
(1.3)  The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may,
with or without a hearing or refunding fees for the identification
card, cancel the identification card of a person who holds an
identification card that indicates he or she is a Canadian citizen
if the person
(a) does not meet or no longer meets the requirements set out
in subsection (1.2),
(b) ceases to be a Canadian citizen, or
(c) in respect of an application by the person for the card,
or for the purpose of maintaining a record relating to the
person's card,
(i)  makes a false or misleading statement,
(ii)  fails to disclose information that is required to be
disclosed,
(iii)  presents a fraudulent or fraudulently altered record,
or
(iv)  fraudulently uses a record.
(1.4)  The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia may,
with or without a hearing or refunding fees for the identification
card, cancel an identification card for a reason set out in
subsection (1.3) (c).
(2)  If the applicant for a voluntary identification card
referred to in subsection (1) is 12 years of age or older but
under 19 years of age, the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia must not issue an identification card without the consent
of one of the applicant's parents or guardians unless
(a) the applicant is married,
(b) the applicant is not residing with the parent or
guardian, or
(c) circumstances make it impossible to obtain the consent of
the parent or guardian.
(3)  An identification card issued under this regulation is
valid for a period ending on the birth date of the applicant
nearest to 5 years from the date of issuance of the identification
card, and any duplicate identification card will also expire at
the same time as the original.
(4)  If an identification card issued to a person under this
regulation is lost, mutilated or destroyed the person may obtain a
duplicate card on application in the form required by the
corporation provided that
(a) in the case of a mutilated card, the card is surrendered
on application for the duplicate card, and
(b) the fee described in the Motor Vehicle Fees Regulation is
paid.
(4.1)  If an identification card that indicates the person is
a Canadian citizen issued to a person under this regulation is
lost, mutilated or destroyed he or she may obtain a duplicate card
if, in addition to the requirements of subsection (4) (a), he or
she
(a) complies with the requirements of subsection (1.1) (a)
and (b), and
(b) continues to meet the requirements set out in section
(1.2).
(5)  Identification cards issued prior to January 1, 1997,
without an expiry date, are deemed to have expired on March 31,
2002 for the purposes of this regulation.
(6)  Repealed [B.C. Reg. 147/2009, Sch. 2, s. 3 (d).]
[am. B.C. Regs. 314/96; 272/2000; 147/2009, Sch. 2, ss. 1 and 3.]
Change of address or name
4
(1)  If the residential address of the holder of an
identification card is changed from the address stated on it, he
must within 10 days notify the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia in writing stating the number of his identification card
and his old and new address.
(1.1)  A person who holds an identification card that
indicates the person is a Canadian citizen and who reports a
change of address under subsection (1) must
(a) surrender his or her existing card to the Insurance
Corporation of British Columbia and apply and pay the prescribed
fee for a duplicate card,
(b) comply with the requirements of section 3 (1.1) (a) and
(b), and
(c) continue to meet requirements set under section 3 (1.2).
(2)  In case of a change of name, by marriage or otherwise,
of the holder of an identification card, the person must within 10
days notify the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia in
writing stating the number of his identification card and the
former name and the new name in full.
(3)  A person who reports a change of name under subsection
(2) must
(a) surrender his existing identification card to the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia and apply and pay the
prescribed fee for a duplicate identification card in his new
name, and
(b) submit proof to the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia's satisfaction of the change of name.
(3.1)  A person who holds an identification card that
indicates the person is a Canadian citizen and who reports a
change of name under subsection (2) must, in addition to the
requirements of subsection (3),
(a) comply with the requirements of section 3 (1.1) (a) and
(b), and
(b) continue to meet requirements set under section 3 (1.2).
(4)  If a person complies with subsection (3) or (3.1) the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must issue a duplicate
identification card in the new name.
(5)  If a person complies with subsection (1.1), the
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia must issue a duplicate
card to the person.
[am. B.C. Regs. 314/96; 147/2009, Sch. 2, ss. 1 and 4.]
Repealed
5
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 175/2009, s. 1.]
[Provisions of the
Motor Vehicle Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 318, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 210 (3) (p)]
