"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Assessment Act
Review Panel Bypass Regulation
B.C. Reg. 435/98
Regulation BEFORE spent, effective December 31, 2000.
B.C. Reg. 435/98
O.C. 1514/98
Deposited December 10, 1998
Assessment Act
Review Panel Bypass Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Assessment Act
;
"complaint"
means a complaint under section 32 of the Act;
"current year"
, in relation to a complaint, means the year in which the notice
of complaint is filed with the assessor under section 33 of the
Act;
"owner"
includes an agent of the owner.
Complaints eligible for bypass
2
(1)  Subject to the requirements of this regulation, a
complaint that meets all of the following criteria may be referred
to, heard and determined by the board instead of a review panel:
(a) the property in respect of which the complaint is made is
in the City of Vancouver and is wholly or partially classified as
class 2, 4, 5 or 6 as prescribed in B.C. Reg. 438/81;
(b) the total actual value of that property, as recorded in
the assessment roll, is at least $5 million;
(c) the complainant is the assessor or the owner.
(2)  This regulation does not apply to a complaint in respect
of an assessment roll other than the 1999 assessment roll and the
2000 assessment roll.
Bypass requires consent of owner and assessor
3
In order for a complaint under section 2 to bypass the review
panel process and go directly to the board for hearing and
determination,
(a) the assessor and the owner must, before February 16 of
the current year, consent to the complaint being heard and
determined by the board instead of a review panel, and
(b) the assessor must, before March 1 of the current year,
file a copy of the notice of complaint with the board.
Complaint heard and determined as an appeal
4
(1)  If a notice of complaint is filed with the board in
accordance with section 3, the complaint must be heard and
determined as an appeal to the board, unless section 5 applies.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3), Part 6 of the Act applies to
a complaint referred to the board in accordance with this
regulation.
(3)  For the purpose of subsection (2),
(a) the notice of complaint filed by the complainant serves
as the notice of appeal under Part 6 of the Act, and
(b) the prescribed appeal fee, referred to in section 50 (3)
of the Act, must be filed with the board on or before March 31 of
the current year.
If parties resolve the complaint
5
If, after a notice of complaint is filed with the board, the
parties resolve that complaint before March 16 of the current
year, the parties may withdraw the complaint from the board and
the resolution may be presented to a review panel as a
recommendation by the assessor in accordance with section 34 of
the Act or as a withdrawal under section 37 of the Act.
[Provisions of the
Assessment Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 20, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 74]
