"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Utilities Commission Act
Direction No. 2 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission
B.C. Reg. 254/2009
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 318/2010, effective November 4,
2010.
B.C. Reg. 254/2009
565/2009
Deposited October 29, 2009
Utilities Commission Act
Direction No. 2 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission
Definitions
1
In this direction:
"Act"
means the
Utilities Commission Act
;
"Burrard Thermal"
means the gas-fired generation asset owned by the authority and
located in Port Moody, British Columbia;
"electricity supply obligations"
means
(a) electricity supply obligations for which rates are filed
with the commission under section 61 of the Act, and
(b) any other electricity supply obligations that exist at
the time this direction comes into force
determined by using the authority's mid-level forecasts of its
energy requirements and peak load, taking into account demand-side
management initiatives, that are accepted by the commission from
time to time.
Application
2
This direction is issued to the commission under section 3 of the
Act.
Burrard Thermal
3
In order to further the objectives described in paragraphs (a) and
(c) of the definition of "government's energy objectives" in
section 1 of the Act, the commission must exercise its powers and
perform its duties under the Act in accordance with the criterion
that, beginning on the date this direction comes into force, the
authority must plan to rely on Burrard Thermal for no more than
the following:
(a) 900 megawatts of capacity;
(b) 0 gigawatt hours of firm energy per year.
Rates
4
In setting rates for the authority, the commission must ensure
that those rates allow the authority to collect sufficient revenue
in each fiscal year to enable the authority to acquire sufficient
energy to meet its electricity supply obligations without planning
to rely on Burrard Thermal for more firm energy or capacity than
is specified in section 3.
[Provisions of the
Utilities Commission Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 473, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 3]
