"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Local Services Act
Community Planning Area No. 28 Dease Lake Land Use Regulation, 1991
B.C. Reg. 81/91
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 311/2008, effective December 1,
2008.
B.C. Reg. 81/91
M53/91
Deposited March 21, 1991
Local Services Act
Community Planning Area No. 28
Dease Lake Land Use Regulation, 1991
Division 1 - Application
Purpose
1
The purpose of this regulation is to control the location and use
of buildings and structures and the location and use of land,
including the surface of water, and to set the minimum size of
parcels within Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake) having
regard to sections 694, 884, 903, 906, 908, 910, 938 and 944 of
the
Municipal Act
.
Application
2
Under the provisions of the
Local Services Act
, and Order in Council 1171/59, this regulation applies to
Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake) as described in
Schedule A.
Division 2 - Interpretation
Interpretation
3
In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
"architect"
means an architect who is registered or licensed to practice in
British Columbia and has competence in the appropriate discipline;
"body of water"
means any lake, pond or marsh;
"campsite"
means the use of land, buildings or structures for the temporary
accommodation of travellers in trailers, recreation vehicles or
tents;
"church"
means the use of land, buildings or structures for religious
worship and ancillary educational, social, recreational or
charitable purposes;
"civic"
means the use of land, buildings or structures for offices by
federal, provincial or local governments, school districts or
improvement districts and for schools, colleges, hospitals, public
clinics providing dental or health care, community centres,
libraries, museums, parks, playgrounds, cemeteries, gaols and
courts of law, but does not include storage buildings, outdoor
storage or works yards;
"commercial outdoor recreation"
means the use of land where privately operated outdoor recreation
services are available for public use for a charge;
"community sewer system"
means a common sewer and system of sewage disposal which serves 2
or more parcels and that is owned, operated and maintained by an
improvement district or regional district under the
Municipal Act
;
"community water system"
means a system of waterworks that serves 2 or more parcels which
is owned, operated and maintained by an improvement district or
regional district under the
Municipal Act
or which is regulated under the
Water Utility Act
;
"dwelling unit"
means a single room or series of rooms of complementary use
operated under a single tenancy as a housekeeping unit, used or
intended to be used as a residence and usually containing cooking,
eating, living, sleeping and sanitary facilities;
"floodplain"
means land lower than the applicable flood level or land within a
floodplain setback;
"frontage"
means that length of a parcel boundary that immediately adjoins a
highway;
"group residence"
means a permanent building for long term communal residential use
or long term care of 6 or more persons that is provided with
sleeping, bathroom and shared living facilities as well as
required support service facilities and any recreation, study or
other facility, and which building may include a dwelling unit for
the manager and sleeping accommodation for staff, but the building
is not a dwelling unit or a series of dwelling units or a hotel,
motel or lodge;
"household animal"
means a domesticated bird or small animal kept for pleasure or
protection;
"minister"
means the Minister of Municipal Affairs;
"mobile home"
means a dwelling unit that
(a) is equipped with a water closet and a bathtub or shower,
waste from which may be disposed of directly into a sewer,
(b) is manufactured as a unit or units intended to be
occupied, in a place other than its place of manufacture, on a
year round and long term basis,
(c) may be designed with detachable towing gear, and
(d) may be quickly readied for occupancy on the site by
placing it on a foundation, connecting utilities and undertaking
incidental assembly;
"mobile home pad"
means,
(a) in a mobile home park, that portion of a mobile home
space paved to support footings or a foundation for a mobile home,
and includes service connections, or
(b) outside of a mobile home park, any foundation for a
mobile home;
"mobile home park"
means 3 or more mobile homes on a parcel of land but does not
include
(a) a parcel of land on which every occupied mobile home is
more than 30 metres from
(i)  a parcel boundary, and
(ii)  another mobile home on the same parcel, or
(b) the storage of unoccupied mobile homes on the parcel;
"natural boundary"
means the visible high water mark on any watercourse or body of
water where the presence and action of the water are so common and
usual and so long continued in all ordinary years as to mark upon
the soil of the bed of the body of water or watercourse a
character distinct from that of the bank thereof in respect of
vegetation as well as in respect of the nature of the soil itself,
and includes the edge of dormant side channels of any watercourse
or body of water;
"parcel"
means any lot, block or other area in which land is held or into
which land is subdivided under the
Land Act
or the
Land Title Act
, but does not include a highway;
"potable water"
means water which is certified for drinking purposes by the
Ministry of Health;
"professional engineer"
means a professional engineer who is registered or licensed to
practice in British Columbia and has competence in the appropriate
discipline;
"public recreation"
means the use of land, buildings or structures provided by
government, a school district, an improvement district or a
non-profit society for public park or for open land recreation or
public recreation purposes;
"public utility"
means the use of land, buildings or structures to accommodate
navigation aids, community television antenna, radio antennae,
telephone exchanges, community water system pumps and tanks, but
does not include the storage of vehicles, equipment or materials;
"public works"
means the use of land, buildings or structures provided by
government, a Crown corporation, a school district or an
improvement district for works yards, electrical generation and
transmission facilities, vehicle equipment storage, material
storage and equipment and vehicle repair;
"residential"
means the use of land, building or structures for housekeeping
purposes in a dwelling unit or units;
"watercourse"
means any natural or constructed depression with well defined
banks having
(a) a bed 0.6 metres or more below the surrounding land
serving to give direction to a current of water at least 6 months
of the year,
(b) an upstream drainage area of 2 square kilometres or more,
or
(c) dormant side channels.
Division 3 - Enforcement
Administrator
4
A person or persons appointed by the minister to administer this
regulation may enter any property or premises at any reasonable
time for the purpose of conducting inspections related to the
administration of this regulation.
Violation
5
No person shall
(a) cause, suffer or permit any land, building or structure
to be used in contravention of this regulation or to otherwise
contravene or fail to comply with this regulation, or
(b) prevent or obstruct any official appointed under section
4 from carrying out his or her duties under this regulation.
Division 4 - General
Prohibition
6
(1)  Subject to the provisions of the
Municipal Act
respecting non-conforming uses, no land, building or structure may
be used, altered, moved or extended contrary to this regulation.
(2)  Land may not be subdivided into parcels smaller than as
permitted under this regulation.
Owner's responsibility
7
Nothing contained in this regulation relieves the owner or
developer of any land, building or structure from responsibility
to comply with any enactment applicable to his or her project or
business.
Use of existing parcels
8
Every parcel, and each part of a parcel created by a dividing
highway, existing on the day this regulation comes into force, may
be used for any use permitted in the zone in which it is located
if
(a) water is provided in accordance with section 14,
(b) sewage is disposed of in accordance with section 15, and
(c) all development complies with the siting requirements for
that zone.
Floodplain designation
9
Designated floodplains are
(a) lands lower than the flood levels specified in section 10
(1), and
(b) lands within a floodplain setback specified in section 10
(3).
Flood levels and floodplain setbacks
10
(1)  The following elevations are flood levels:
(a) 755.1 metres Geodetic Survey of Canada datum for lands
adjacent to Dease Lake;
(b) 3 metres above the natural boundary of Hotel Creek;
(c) 3 metres above the natural boundary of the Tanzilla
River;
(d) 1.5 metres above the natural boundary of Allan Lake and
Allan B Lake;
(e) 1.5 metres above the natural boundary of any other body
of water or watercourse.
(2)  If 2 or more flood levels apply under subsection (1),
the higher shall be the flood level.
(3)  The floodplain setback of any landfill or structural
support required to elevate a floor system or mobile home pad
above the flood level is as follows:
(a) 60 metres from the natural boundary of the Tanzilla
River;
(b) 30 metres from the natural boundary of Hotel Creek;
(c) 15 metres from the natural boundary of Dease Lake;
(d) 7.5 metres from the natural boundary of Allan Lake and
Allan B Lake;
(e) 15 metres from the natural boundary of any other body of
water or watercourse.
(4)  If 2 or more setbacks apply under subsection (3), there
shall be compliance with both or all setbacks.
Minimum parcel frontage
11
If a parcel created at subdivision fronts on a highway, the
minimum frontage on the highway is 1/10 of the perimeter of that
parcel unless the minister, upon application by the owner, exempts
the owner from this requirement.
Panhandle area not included
12
If a parcel created at subdivision is provided with access from a
highway by means of a panhandle access strip
(a) the area of the panhandle access strip shall not be
included in the required minimum parcel area, and
(b) the width of the strip shall be wide enough for a future
highway if the area of the parcel served by the panhandle access
strip is large enough to be further subdivided.
Minimum parcel size does not apply
13
The minimum parcel size at subdivision in any zone established
under this regulation does not apply
(a) if the parcel being created is to be used solely for
unattended equipment necessary for the operation of
(i)  a community water system,
(ii)  a community sewer system,
(iii)  a community gas distribution system,
(iv)  a community radio or television broadcasting antenna,
(v)  a radio or television broadcasting antenna,
(vi)  a telecommunications relay station,
(vii)  an automatic telephone exchange,
(viii)  an air or marine navigational aid,
(ix)  an electrical substation or generating station, or
(x)  any other similar public service or quasi public service
facility or utility,
(b) to parks,
(c) if no sewage is generated, and
(d) if the owner agrees in writing to register a condition or
covenant under section 219 of the
Land Title Act
in favour of the Crown at the time the subdivision is registered,
and such condition or covenant is satisfactory to the approving
officer and restricts or prohibits the construction of buildings
or structures on any parcel, or the use of any parcel, or both
construction and use.
Potable water
14
At subdivision, a parcel created shall
(a) be connected to a community water system for which a
final certificate has been issued by the Minister of Health under
section 21
1
of the
Health Act
, or
(b) have a source of water that has been certified potable by
the Ministry of Health and which produces not less than 2 300
litres per day and, if there is more than one dwelling unit on the
parcel, there shall be an additional 2 300 litres per day for each
additional dwelling unit.
Sewage disposal
15
(1)  Any effluent generated on a parcel shall be effectively
disposed of
(a) by connection to a community sewer system, or
(b) on that parcel in accordance with the Sewerage System
Regulation, B.C. Reg. 326/2004, or the
Waste Management Act
, as the case may be.
(2)  The use of land, buildings or structures on the parcel
under subsection (1) is permitted only when effluent disposal is
approved by the Minister of Health under the
Health Act
or the Minister of Environment, Lands and Parks under the
Waste Management Act
, as the case may be.
Sight triangle
16
No person shall, within a sight triangle as defined in Schedule B,
grow or place, or permit to be grown or placed, any tree, shrub,
plant, fence or other structure with horizontal dimension
exceeding 0.6 metre within the sight triangle above an elevation
such that an eye 0.9 metre above the surface elevation of one
highway cannot see an object 0.9 metre above the surface elevation
of the other highway.
Severability
17
If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or clause of
this regulation is for any reason held to be invalid by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
does not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
regulation.
Division 5 - Fire Limits
Fire limits
18
(1)  Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake) is
established as a fire limit area under section 694 (1) (f) of the
Municipal Act
.
(2)  The installation or construction of any solid fuel
burning appliance, fireplace or chimney shall conform to the
British Columbia Building Code.
(2.1)  Smoke alarms conforming to CAN/ULC-S531, "Standard for
Smoke Alarms", must be installed in each new dwelling unit and in
each new sleeping room not within a dwelling unit.
(2.2)  Smoke alarms within new dwelling units must be
installed between each sleeping area and the remainder of the
dwelling unit and, if the sleeping areas are served by hallways,
the smoke alarms must be installed in the hallway.
(2.3)  Smoke alarms required by subsections (2.1) and (2.2)
must be installed on or near the ceiling.
(2.4)  If a dwelling unit consists of more than one storey or
has further storeys added, at least one smoke alarm must be
installed on each storey.
(2.5)  Smoke alarms must be installed by permanent
connections to an electrical circuit and must have no disconnect
switch between the overcurrent device and the smoke alarm.
(2.6)  If the building is not supplied with electrical power,
smoke alarms may be battery operated.
(2.7)  If more than one smoke alarm is required in a dwelling
unit, the smoke alarms must be wired so that the activation on one
alarm will cause all alarms within the dwelling unit to sound.
(2.8)  If instructions are necessary to describe the
maintenance and care required for smoke alarms to ensure
continuing satisfactory performance, the instructions must be
posted in a location where they will be readily available to the
occupants for reference.
(3)  If one or 2 dwelling units are on a parcel, the
following conditions apply:
(a) unless the provisions of subsection (5) (d) and (e) are
complied with, no dwelling unit may be above another dwelling unit
in the same building;
(b) each dwelling unit shall have a separate entrance and
exit, and each entrance and exit shall lead directly to the out of
doors and directly to the ground;
(c) unless the provisions of subsection (5) (d) and (e) are
complied with, a dwelling unit shall
(i)  be in a separate building or structure no less than 6
metres away from any other building or structure, or
(ii)  be built or constructed immediately abutting another
dwelling unit in the same building or structure, separated from
one another by a masonry wall with a minimum thickness of 20 cm
resting on foundations in the ground, and the wall shall
(A)  if it is within the building, have gypsum board applied
to both sides,
(B)  have no depressions or openings in it, and
(C)  extend at least 15 cm beyond the outside wall and roof
of the building or structure, which extension shall be covered by
a metal cap or casing.
(4)  Except for mobile homes in a mobile home park, if 2 or
more dwelling units or a hotel, motel or lodge are on a parcel, a
building or structure containing a dwelling unit or a sleeping
room or area in a hotel, motel or lodge shall be at least 6 metres
from
(a) a building or structure used to store or shelter a motor
vehicle, and
(b) a motor vehicle parking area.
(5)  If
(a) a group residence or 3 or more dwelling units in the same
building or structure are on a parcel,
(b) a residential use is in the same building or structure as
a non residential principal use as permitted in the applicable
zone, or
(c) the use, regardless of the zone in which it is situated,
is listed in section 30 (1) (a), (c) or (d), 31 (1) (a), (b) or
(c), 32 (3) (a), 33 (3) (a), or 34 (1) or (2) (g), (i), (j), (k)
or (l) of this regulation,
all buildings and structures on that parcel shall
(d) be designed by an architect or a professional engineer in
accordance with the requirements of this regulation, the British
Columbia Building Code
2
, the British Columbia Plumbing Code, 1985
2
, the
Electrical Safety Act
, the
Fire Services Act
, the
Health Act
and the
Waste Management Act
, and
(e) be constructed under the supervision of an architect or a
professional engineer.
(6)  No building or structure shall be occupied by any person
until the architect or professional engineer who designed and
supervised the construction has deposited with the Municipal
Development Services Branch, Ministry of Municipal Affairs,
Recreation and Culture
3
, 800 Johnson Street, Victoria, British Columbia, V8V 1X4, and the
Municipal Development Services Branch has acknowledged receipt of,
the following:
(a) 2 signed and sealed copies of
(i)  a plan of the parcel showing the legal description of
the area of the parcel and its dimensions, and the name of the
zone established by this regulation in which the parcel is
situated, and
(ii)  complete as constructed plans and specifications of any
building or structure built on the parcel;
(b) 2 copies of each authorization applicable to the
development for
(i)  access to a highway under the
Transportation Act
,
(ii)  sewage disposal under the
Health Act
,
(iii)  sewage discharge under the
Waste Management Act
;
(c) 2 copies of any approval, by the fire commissioner, of
plans and specifications for a place of public assembly required
to be considered under the Public Hall and Theatre Safety
Regulations, B.C. Reg. 63/78
4
, made under the
Fire Services Act
;
(d) 2 signed and sealed copies of statements by each
architect or professional engineer who designed or supervised the
construction of the building or structure, stating that the design
and construction is in accordance with this regulation, the
British Columbia Building Code
5
, the British Columbia Plumbing Code, 1985, the
Fire Services Act
and the Public Hall and Theatre Safety Regulations
6
.
[am. B.C. Regs. 162/94, s. 1; 555/2004, s. 2.]
Division 6 - Zones
Zones
19
(1)  Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake) is divided
into the zones shown in Schedule C.
(2)  The zones, and their short form equivalents for the
purposes of this regulation, are as follows:
NAME OF ZONE
SHORT FORM EQUIVALENT
Residential
R-1
Rural Residential
R-2
Rural
R-3
Multiple Residential
R-4
Multiple Residential A
R-4A
General Commercial
C-1
Tourist Commercial
C-2
Light Industrial
I-1
Heavy Industrial
I-2
Airport
A-P
Holding
H-1
Park
P-1
(3)  If a zone boundary is shown as following the edge of a
highway right of way, the centre line of that highway is to be
considered as the zone boundary.
(4)  If a zone boundary is shown as following the edge of a
body of water or a watercourse, the natural boundary of the body
of water or watercourse is to be considered as the zone boundary.
(5)  If a zone boundary does not follow a legally defined
line or a natural boundary, and if the edge of the zone is not
dimensioned from known points, the location of the zone boundary
is to be determined by scaling the zoning map.
Parking
20
Off street parking shall be provided in all zones in accordance
with the requirements of Division 7.
Uses permitted in all zones
21
The following uses are permitted in all zones:
(a) parks;
(b) the keeping of household animals when a principal use has
been established;
(c) forest management activity relating to the production and
harvesting of timber but, unless otherwise permitted in this
regulation, the milling of timber and the storage of milled timber
for resale is not permitted;
(d) uses, buildings and structures customarily associated
with the principal and secondary use established on the parcel.
Keeping of animals
22
No enclosure or structure for housing animals, and no feeding or
drinking trough, manure pile or storage of feed or bedding
associated with such animals, may be closer than 6 metres to any
parcel boundary.
Home occupation, cottage industry and home/host
23
(1)  If home occupation, cottage industry or home/host is
permitted
(a) it may only be undertaken in conjunction with an
established dwelling unit on the same parcel,
(b) it shall not create a nuisance by means of sound, sight
or smell, and
(c) it shall not involve materials or products that produce
flammable vapour or gas under ordinary conditions.
(2)  If home occupation is permitted, the following
conditions apply:
(a) the home occupation shall be contained and conducted
entirely within the dwelling unit;
(b) the home occupation shall not occupy more than 35 square
metres of the dwelling unit;
(c) the home occupation is limited to
(i)  private teaching and tutoring, daycare, professional
offices, tailoring and dressmaking, barbering and hairdressing,
(ii)  retail sales and rentals,
(iii)  sales agent and distributor, and
(iv)  arts and crafts teaching and manufacture, as well as
the sale of arts and crafts products made on the premises;
(d) no exterior storage of materials or products is
permitted.
(3)  If cottage industry is permitted, the following
conditions apply:
(a) the cottage industry may only be carried on
(i)  within the dwelling unit where it shall occupy not more
than 35 square metres of the dwelling unit,
(ii)  within an accessory building which shall be no larger
than
(A)  75 square metres if the cottage industry use is
described in paragraph (e) (i) or (ii), or
(B)  50 square metres if any other cottage industry use is to
take place, or
(iii)  within a maximum of 75 square metres of land area not
covered by the dwelling unit or permitted accessory building or
structure;
(b) no accessory building used for the cottage industry, and
no exterior land area used for parking or otherwise connected with
the cottage industry, shall be within 15 metres of a front lot
line or 9 metres of a side or rear lot line;
(c) no material stored outside shall be higher than 2 metres;
(d) all material stored outside shall be behind a tight board
fence which may be no higher than 2 metres;
(e) the cottage industry is limited to a home occupation and
one of the following uses:
(i)  logging, trucking or building trades contractor;
(ii)  mechanical repair and servicing of trucks, boats, farm
and logging equipment, excluding painting and bodyworks and the
sale of such goods;
(iii)  fishing;
(iv)  non-serial manufacture of furniture or other wood
products, including the sale of products made on the premises;
(v)  taxidermy;
(vi)  repair and servicing of household appliances and
furniture, excluding the sale of such goods.
(4)  If home/host is permitted, the following conditions
apply:
(a) renting overnight accommodations is permitted;
(b) rooms may be let or camping spaces may be let, but not
both rooms and camping spaces;
(c) rooms let shall be within the same dwelling unit used as
the residence of the operator;
(d) no separate cooking facility shall be provided in any
room let and no cooking facilities shall be shared by occupants of
rooms let;
(e) no more than 5 rooms may be let;
(f) no parking space shall be within 15 metres of a front lot
line or 4.5 metres of a side or rear lot line;
(g) all camping spaces shall be on the same lot as the
residence of the operator;
(h) no more than 5 camping spaces are permitted on a lot;
(i) no part of a camping space or a parking space shall be
within 15 metres of a front lot line or 4.5 metres of a side or
rear lot line.
(5)  Notwithstanding subsections (2) (b) and (3) (a) (i), if
both home occupation and cottage industry are conducted within the
dwelling unit, no more than 50 square metres shall be occupied for
both those purposes.
North bank of the Tanzilla
24
Notwithstanding any provision in this regulation governing the
siting of buildings or structures, no building or structure may be
within 30 metres of the top of the bank or crest of the bluff
above the Tanzilla River where the steep slope clearly changes
into the natural upland bench in District Lot 1288 and eastward to
the point where Highway 37 descends southward to just above the
level of that river.
Residential — R-1
25
(1)  In an R-1 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) residential;
(b) civic;
(c) church;
(d) public utility.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
R-1 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
permitted by section 23 for home occupation, cottage industry and
home/host.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an R-1 zone is
(a) 1 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 500 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 2 000 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(4)  The maximum residential density in an R-1 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) 1 000 square metres of parcel area is required for each
dwelling unit;
(b) buildings, structures, driveways, parking area, patios,
paved foot paths and pools may cover not more than 40% of the
parcel;
(c) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway;
(d) no building or structure containing a dwelling unit may
be more than 7.6 metres high.
(5)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Rural Residential — R-2
26
(1)  In an R-2 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) residential;
(b) civic;
(c) public utility.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
R-2 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
permitted by section 23 for home occupation, cottage industry and
home/host.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an R-2 zone is
4 000 square metres.
(4)  The maximum residential density in an R-2 zone is 2
dwelling units per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) 4 000 square metres of parcel area is required for each
dwelling unit;
(b) buildings and structures may cover not more than 33% of
the parcel;
(c) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway;
(d) no building or structure containing a dwelling unit may
be more than 7.6 metres high.
(5)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Rural — R-3
27
(1)  In an R-3 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) residential;
(b) civic;
(c) campsite;
(d) public recreation;
(e) commercial outdoor recreation;
(f) church;
(g) public utility.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
R-3 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
permitted by section 22 for the keeping of animals and by section
23 for home occupation, cottage industry and home/host.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an R-3 zone is
2 hectares.
(4)  The maximum residential density in an R-3 zone is 2
dwelling units per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) 2 hectares of parcel area is required for each dwelling
unit;
(b) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway;
(c) no building or structure may be more than 7.6 metres
high.
(5)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Multiple Residential — R-4
28
(1)  In an R-4 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) residential;
(b) mobile home park;
(c) group residence;
(d) civic;
(e) church;
(f) public utility.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
R-4 zone, a secondary use of land, buildings or structures is as
permitted by section 23 for home occupation.
(3)  If a mobile home park has been established as the
principal use in an R-4 zone, the following uses of land,
buildings or structures are permitted:
(a) recreation areas and buildings for the use of the mobile
home park tenants;
(b) areas for the storage of mobile homes or the storage of a
resident's recreational vehicle, boat, goods or chattels.
(4)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision for a mobile home
park in an R-4 zone is 2 hectares.
(5)  Except as provided in subsection (8), the minimum parcel
area in an R-4 zone when there are one or 2 dwelling units per
parcel is
(a) 2 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 3 000 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 4 000 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(6)  In an R-4 zone when there are 3 or more dwelling units
per parcel, except in a mobile home park,
(a) 650 square metres of parcel area is required for each
dwelling unit, but the parcel may not be smaller than 2 000 square
metres if both a community water system and a community sewer
system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 200 square metres of parcel area is required for each
dwelling unit if a community water system serves the parcel but no
community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 1 680 square metres of parcel area is required for each
dwelling unit if neither a community water system nor a community
sewer system serves the parcel.
(7)  Except in a group residence and a mobile home park, the
maximum residential density in an R-4 zone is 15.4 dwelling units
per hectare and the following conditions apply:
(a) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, patios,
paved foot paths and pools may cover not more than 40% of the
parcel;
(b) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(c) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway.
(8)  For a group residence in an R-4 zone, the following
conditions apply:
(a) the minimum parcel size at subdivision is
(i)  1 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(ii)  1 500 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(iii)  2 000 square metres if neither a community water
system nor a community sewer system serves the parcel;
(b) for every person living communally or in long term care,
and for any dwelling unit included, and for each staff member
living in the building, there shall be a minimum of 200 square
metres of parcel area;
(c) the maximum residential density is one dwelling unit per
parcel;
(d) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, patios,
paved foot paths and pools may cover not more than 30% of the
parcel;
(e) no building may be more than 7.6 metres high;
(f) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway.
(9)  Mobile home parks shall be developed in accordance with
the Dease Lake Mobile Home Park Regulation, 1991.
(10)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Multiple Residential A — R-4A
29
(1)  In an R-4A zone the principal use of land, buildings or
structures is restricted to residential, and no other principal
use is permitted.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
R-4A zone, a secondary use of land, buildings or structures is as
permitted by section 23 for home occupation.
(3)  The minimum parcel area for each dwelling unit in an
R-4A zone is
(a) 650 square metres if both a community water system and a
community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 200 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 1 680 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(4)  For the purposes of an R-4A zone, the parts of a
waterworks system consisting of its water source, treatment,
storage and transmission facilities located on a parcel not in the
R-4A zone may be considered to be a community water system if
(a) the waterworks system provides domestic water to only one
additional and contiguous parcel in the R-4A zone,
(b) the parts of the waterworks system on the parcel with the
water source and affecting the parcel served are within a
continuous easement of dimensions satisfactory to the approving
officer,
(c) the easement under paragraph (b) is in favour of the
parcel served,
(d) the waterworks system is capable of providing not less
than 2 300 litres of potable water per day per dwelling unit to
each dwelling unit served by the waterworks system, and
(e) the waterworks system is approved under section 22 of the
Health Act
.
(5)  The maximum residential density in an R-4A zone is 3
dwelling units per parcel, and the following conditions apply:
(a) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, patios,
paved foot paths and pools may cover not more than 40% of the
parcel;
(b) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(c) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway.
(6)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
General Commercial — C-1
30
(1)  In a C-1 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) retail sale of gasoline, food and goods, excluding heavy
machinery or heavy equipment;
(b) rental of goods, excluding heavy machinery or heavy
equipment;
(c) restaurants, cafes and premises that are licensed under
the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
;
(d) commercial indoor recreation and amusement;
(e) professional or similar or related services;
(f) banks and credit unions;
(g) personal service establishments;
(h) the servicing and repair of
(i)  goods of the sort legally available for sale on the
premises,
(ii)  cars, in conjunction with a service station use but
excluding auto body shops, and
(iii)  commercial vehicles with a licensed gross weight not
exceeding 5 500 kg, in conjunction with a service station use but
excluding auto body shops;
(i) civic;
(j) public utility;
(k) church.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not include any use that is
manufacturing, salvaging or warehousing.
(3)  If a principal use of land has been established in a C-1
zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
follows:
(a) residential;
(b) home occupation and home/host as permitted by section 23.
(4)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in a C-1 zone is
(a) 1 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 500 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 2 000 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(5)  Notwithstanding subsection (4), in a C-1 zone the
minimum parcel size and site area for a restaurant, cafe or
premises that are licensed under the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
is 4 050 square metres unless both a community water system and a
community sewer system serve the parcel in which case the minimum
parcel size is 1 000 square metres.
(6)  The maximum residential density in a C-1 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, exterior
storage areas and paved areas may cover not more than 40% of the
parcel;
(b) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(c) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway.
(7)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Tourist Commercial — C-2
31
(1)  In a C-2 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) hotels, motels and lodges;
(b) restaurants, cafes and premises that are licensed under
the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
;
(c) service stations;
(d) the servicing and repair of
(i)  cars, in conjunction with a service station use but
excluding auto body shops, and
(ii)  commercial vehicles with a licensed gross weight not
exceeding 5 500 kg, in conjunction with a service station use but
excluding truck or auto body shops;
(e) public utility;
(f) float plane base;
(g) marina;
(h) campsite;
(i) commercial outdoor recreation.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in a C-2
zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
follows:
(a) residential;
(b) home occupation and home/host as permitted by section 23.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in a C-2 zone is
(a) 1 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 500 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 2 000 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(4)  Notwithstanding subsection (3), in a C-2 zone the
minimum parcel size and site area for a restaurant, cafe or
premises that are licensed under the
Liquor Control and Licensing Act
is 4 050 square metres unless both a community water system and a
community sewer system serve the parcel in which case the minimum
parcel size is 1 000 square metres.
(5)  The maximum residential density in a C-2 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) each room or unit for rent in a hotel, motel or lodge
shall have a minimum of 200 square metres of parcel area;
(b) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, exterior
storage areas, patios, pools and paved areas may cover not more
than 40% of the parcel;
(c) no building containing a dwelling unit or a motel, hotel
or lodge may be more than 7.6 metres high;
(d) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway.
(6)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Light Industrial — I-1
32
(1)  In an I-1 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) building and construction material storage and sales;
(b) manufacturing;
(c) manned radio transmission facilities;
(d) service stations;
(e) vehicle and equipment sales, repair and rental;
(f) warehousing and storage;
(g) wholesaling;
(h) public works;
(i) public utility.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not include any use that is
offensive within the meaning of the
Health Act
.
(3)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
I-1 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
follows:
(a) offices and ancillary facilities;
(b) residential;
(c) home occupation and cottage industry as permitted by
section 23.
(4)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an I-1 zone is
(a) 1 000 square metres if both a community water system and
a community sewer system serve the parcel,
(b) 1 500 square metres if a community water system serves
the parcel but no community sewer system serves the parcel, or
(c) 1 940 square metres if neither a community water system
nor a community sewer system serves the parcel.
(5)  The maximum residential density in an I-1 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, exterior
storage areas and paved areas may cover not more than 50% of the
parcel;
(b) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(c) no building, structure, outdoor storage or stored or
parked vehicle may be within 4.5 metres of a side or rear property
line or 8 metres of a highway.
(6)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Heavy Industrial — I-2
33
(1)  In an I-2 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) all principal uses permitted in an I-1 zone,
(b) fuel storage and sales,
(c) industry;
(d) salvaging and salvage including wrecked vehicles storage.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not include any use that is
offensive within the meaning of the
Health Act
.
(3)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
I-2 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
follows:
(a) offices and auxiliary facilities;
(b) residential;
(c) keeping of animals;
(d) home occupation and cottage industry as permitted by
section 23.
(4)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an I-2 zone is
2 hectares.
(5)  The maximum residential density in an I-2 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) buildings, structures, driveways, parking areas, exterior
storage areas and paved areas may cover not more than 50% of the
parcel;
(b) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(c) no building, structure, outdoor storage or stored or
parked vehicle may be within 4.5 metres of a side or rear property
line or 8 metres of a highway.
(6)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Airport — A-P
34
(1)  In an A-P zone the principal use of land, buildings or
structures is restricted to airports and heliports, and no other
principal uses are permitted.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
A-P zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
follows:
(a) manned radio transmission facilities;
(b) storage of aircraft fuels;
(c) storage of aircraft;
(d) aircraft services;
(e) rental of aircraft;
(f) flying schools;
(g) storage and handling of cargo received by aircraft or to
be shipped by aircraft;
(h) storage of fire suppression or forest management
chemicals;
(i) provision of facilities and storage of equipment
necessary for the operation and management of an airport;
(j) offices necessary for the operation of an airport;
(k) quarters for a flying club;
(l) restaurant;
(m) vehicle rental;
(n) residential;
(o) home occupation as permitted by section 23;
(p) fire suppression crew quarters.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an A-P zone is
20 hectares.
(4)  The maximum residential density in an A-P zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) no building containing a dwelling unit may be more than
7.6 metres high;
(b) no building, outdoor storage, or stored or parked vehicle
or aircraft may be within 8 metres of a highway or 4.5 metres of
any other property line.
(5)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
[am. B.C. Reg. 162/94, s. 2.]
Holding — H-1
35
(1)  In an H-1 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) residential;
(b) campsites;
(c) public recreation;
(d) commercial outdoor recreation;
(e) public utility;
(f) mineral exploration and development.
(2)  If a principal use of land has been established in an
H-1 zone, secondary uses of land, buildings or structures are as
permitted by section 22 for the keeping of animals and by section
23 for home occupation, cottage industry and home/host.
(3)  The minimum parcel size at subdivision in an H-1 zone is
100 hectares.
(4)  The maximum residential density in an H-1 zone is one
dwelling unit per parcel and the following conditions apply:
(a) no building or structure may be within 4.5 metres of a
side or rear property line or 8 metres of a highway;
(b) no building or structure containing a dwelling unit may
be more than 7.6 metres high.
(5)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Park — P-1
36
(1)  In a P-1 zone the following principal uses of land,
buildings or structures, and no other principal uses, are
permitted:
(a) community garden;
(b) public recreation.
(2)  No building or structure in a P-1 zone may be within 4.5
metres of a side or rear property line or 8 metres of a front
property line.
(3)  The provisions of section 18 apply to this section.
Division 7 - Parking
Parking space requirements
37
(1)  Off street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with Schedule D.
(2)  If any of the uses of land, buildings or structures
listed in Schedule D are established or expanded or if more than
one use is established or expanded, the total parking requirement
is the sum of the spaces required for each use.
Parking stalls
38
Off street parking spaces shall be rectangular and not less than
2.75 metres by 6 metres.
Existing Uses
39
Sections 37 and 38 do not apply to land, buildings or structures
existing at the time this regulation came into force as long as
the land, buildings or structures continue to be put to a use that
does not require more parking or loading space than was required
for the use existing at the time this regulation came into force.
Schedule A
Description of Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake)
(section 2)
Community Planning Area Number 28 constitutes all those lands
contained within the following boundaries: Commencing at the
northwest corner of Lot 5470, Cassiar District; thence north to a
point which lies due west of the most northerly corner of Lot 6746;
thence east for a distance of 4 500 metres; thence north to a point
which lies due west of Nine Mile Point; thence east to a point which
lies due north of the northeast corner of Lot 6904; thence south to
a point which lies due east of the northeast corner of Lot 5459,
Indian Reserve Number 9 (Dease Lake); thence east for a distance of
2 500 metres; thence south to a point which lies due east of the
most northerly corner of Lot 6746; thence east to a point which lies
due north of the point of intersection of the middle line of the
Tanzilla River with the centre line of Cassiar Highway Number 37 as
constructed on the ground; thence south to said point of
intersection of the middle line of the Tanzilla River with the
centre line of Cassiar Highway Number 37; thence west to a point
which lies due south of the most southerly corner of Lot 5470;
thence north to said corner; thence northerly along the westerly
boundary of said Lot 5470 to the aforesaid northwest corner thereof;
being the point of commencement.
Schedule B
Sight Triangle
(section 16)
1
"Sight triangle"
means the area formed by a triangle in the angle formed by the
right of way boundaries or boundaries produced and 2 points on
those boundaries 6 m from the point of intersection, as shown
crosshatched in the diagram following:
Schedule C
[am. B.C. Regs. 210/92; 256/92; 162/94, s. 3.]
Zoning Map
(section 19)
[exempt from publication]
NOTE: Schedule C is exempt from publication under section 6 of the
Regulations Act. It may be inspected at the offices of Planning
Advice and Approvals Branch, Ministry of Community Development, PO
Box 9490 Stn Prov. Gov't, Victoria, B.C. V8W 9N7
.
Schedule D
Parking Space Requirements
(section 37)
Use of Land, Buildings or Structures
Number of Offstreet Parking Spaces to be Provided
Automobile repair
2 per service bay plus 1 per 2 employees
Bank or credit union
1 per 20 square metres of gross floor space
Beach, swimming
1 per 9 square metres of developed beach above high water mark
Cafe/restaurant
1 per 3 seats + 1 per 2 employees
Campground/overnight travel trailer or camper
1 per camping or trailer or camper space plus 2
Community hall or church
1 per 5 seats (number of seats as approved by the Fire
Commissioner)
Cottage industry
1 per employee plus 2 per dwelling unit
Gas station
2 per service bay plus 1 per 2 employees
Gas bar/convenience store
1 per 15 square metres retail floor space plus 2 per island
Home/host
1 per room or camping space to be let plus 2 per dwelling unit
Home occupation
1 per employee plus 2 per dwelling unit
Industrial uses
1 per 2 employees
Laundromat
1 per 3 washing machines
Medical/dental clinics
5 per doctor or dentist
Mobile home park
See CPA 28 Dease Lake Mobile Home Park Regulations (1991)
Motel/hotel
1 per room or unit plus 1 per employee
Neighbourhood pub
1 per 3 seats
Offices
1 per 30 square metres of gross floor space
Police office
1 per 2 employees plus 1 for each police vehicle
Post office
1 per 2 employees
Residential, except in mobile home parks, cottage industry,
home/host and home occupation
2 per dwelling unit
School — elementary
— secondary
1 per employee
1 per employee plus one for each 10 students
Store (except gas bar/ convenience store)
1 per employee plus 1 per 15 square metres of retail floor
space
Tire repair
2 per service bay plus 1 per 2 employees
1.
this refers to R.S.B.C. 1979-161-21 which was repealed by
1992-63-3
2.
see now
the British Columbia Building Code Regulation, B.C. Reg.
295/98
3.
now called Planning Advice and Approvals Branch, Ministry of
Community Development, PO Box 9490 Stn Prov. Gov't, Victoria,
B.C. V8W 9N7
4.
replaced by B.C. Reg. 403/92 which was replaced by B.C. Reg.
285/98
5.
see now
the British Columbia Building Code Regulation, B.C. Reg.
295/98
6.
replaced by B.C. Reg. 403/92 which was replaced by B.C. Reg.
285/98
[Provisions of the
Local Services Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 276, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 4]
