"point in time" regulation content Public health act Swimming pool, spray pool and wading pool regulations B.c. reg. 289/72 Note:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the Changes made on the effective date. (pit covers changes made From september 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the Regulation.)
Section
Effective date Regulation
October 8, 2010
Section 15
January 14, 2010
Section 22
January 14, 2010
Section 81
January 14, 2010
Regulation before repealed by bc reg 296/2010, effective october 8, 2010.
B.c. reg. 289/72 O.c. 4190/72 Public health act Swimming pool, spray pool and wading pool regulations Title
1 These regulations may be cited as the "swimming pool, spray pool And wading pool regulations".
Part 1 - interpretation Definitions
2 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, "commercial pool" Means a swimming pool having a surface area of 1 800 square feet Or less which is owned or operated by, or in conjunction with, an Educational, recreational or business enterprise and the use of Which is restricted to members, tenants or patrons of the Enterprise or their guests; "design flow rate" Means the rate at which water must flow in order to pass the Entire volume of the pool within a specified turnover period; "fill and draw pool" Means a pool in which the cleanliness of the water is maintained Primarily by the removal and replacement of water at periodic Intervals;
"flow through pool" Means a pool in which the water cleanliness is maintained by Introducing a continuous flow of fresh, clean water to the pool And wasting the outflowing water; "health establishment" Means an educational, recreational, business enterprise or Hospital which provides therapeutic pool or other pool facilities In order to cater to the health needs of its patients or patrons; "lifeguard" Means a person 16 years of age or older who, while on duty, is Responsible for the conduct and safety of all persons in or near The pool, and who is the holder of one of the following valid and Subsisting certificates:
(a) royal life saving society national lifeguard service Award;
(b) royal life saving society bronze cross; (c) young men's christian association senior life saving Award;
(d) canadian red cross society leader award; (e) red cross-royal life saving society joint instructor Certification;
(f) a certificate deemed equivalent to any of the above by The ymca, the canadian red cross society or the royal life saving Society;
"lifesaving unit" Shall include (a) a non-conductive reaching pole at least 12 feet long, and (b) a throwing ring with a quarter inch line securely Attached having a length of not less than half the width of the Pool plus 10 feet; "manager" Means the person who, while on duty, is responsible for the Supervision of the operation of the pool and auxiliary facilities; "medical health officer" Means the medical health officer appointed under the Public health act For the area in which the pool is located; "municipality" Means a village, town, city or district municipality incorporated Under any act and includes a regional district, improvement District, a dyking district, sewerage district, drainage district And any special district established under any act; "operator" Means a person who owns or leases the facilities consisting of the Pool and who controls the operation of these facilities or, in the Case of a society or corporation which owns or leases a pool, the Officers of the society or corporation responsible to the society Or corporation for the operation of these facilities; "person" Includes any corporation, partnership or party and the heirs, Executors, administrators or other legal representatives of such Person to whom the context can apply according to law; "pool" Means a swimming pool, wading pool or spray pool; "portable instruction pool" Or "learner pool" means a pool of water intended for swimming Instruction and water safety instruction and which can be Dismantled and moved from place to place; "private residential pool" Means a pool which has been installed for the use of the occupants And guests of one single family dwelling or duplex and does not Include a pool which is a common facility owned by a strata Corporation or other corporate body; "public health inspector" Means an inspector appointed pursuant to the Public health act ; "spray pool" Means an artificially constructed depression or basin for use by Children, into which potable water is sprayed but not allowed to Accumulate in the bottom; "swimming pool" Means an artificially created body of water having a depth of 24 Inches or more and all auxiliary structures and equipment which is Available for swimming, recreative bathing or physiotherapy Purposes, either free of charge or for a fee; "therapeutic pool" Means a pool of water provided for physiotherapy treatment, Including a natural hot water pool, roman bath, hydro swirl and Hydrotherapy pool; "wading pool" Means an artificial pool of water intended for wading purposes, Having a depth of less than 24 inches.
[am. b.c. regs. 103/93, s. 1; 451/2003, s.1.] Part 2 - application and approval Application of regulation 3 These regulations shall apply to all pools within the province, Except private residential pools, and to all auxiliary structures And equipment required for the use or operation of these pools.
Certificate of authorization 4 No person shall construct a pool or make structural or mechanical Changes to any pool without first obtaining a certificate of Authorization from the medical health officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 33/78; 423/98, s. 1; 451/2003, s. 2.] Conformity with local bylaws 5 It is the responsibility of the applicant for a certificate of Authorization for construction to submit to the medical health Officer at the time of application written assurance from each Municipality having jurisdiction to pass zoning, plumbing, Electrical, building or fire prevention bylaws that the proposed Construction conforms to its bylaws covering these matters.
[am. b.c. regs. 423/98, s. 3; 451/2003, s. 3.] Operating permit required 6 No person shall operate a swimming pool unless he is the holder of A subsisting operating permit issued by the medical health officer Or a public health inspector.
[am. b.c. regs. 275/92, s. (a); 103/93, s. 2.] Letter of certification 7 A medical health officer shall not issue an operating permit for a New or newly renovated pool until he has received a letter of Certification, acceptable to the medical health officer, signed by A competent professional engineer or architect registered to Practise in british columbia, signifying that the swimming pool Has been constructed in accordance with the plans and Specifications approved in the manner set out in section 4 herein.
[am. b.c. regs. 423/98, s. 2; 451/2003, s. 4.] Medical health officer may allow permit 8 Notwithstanding section 7, where minor details remain to be Completed in order to comply with this regulation, pools may Qualify for a permit at the discretion of the medical health Officer.
Medical health officer may order changes 9 The medical health officer may order changes in the operation or Structure of a pool if, in his opinion, sanitation, water quality Or public safety standards are not being satisfactorily Maintained. these changes must conform to these regulations.
Ban on fill and draw pools 10 No person shall construct or operate a fill and draw pool.
Requirements for flow through pools 11 No person shall operate a flow through pool unless the Requirements of these regulations are met.
Part 3
Repealed. [b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 5.] Part 4 - pool construction Plans and specifications 13 All plans and specifications for swimming pools shall be prepared By a competent professional engineer or architect registered to Practise in british columbia and shall bear the lawful seal of the Designer. the registered professional engineer or architect Responsible for preparing the plans shall certify the completed Works in accordance with section 7.
Inspection during construction 14 Notwithstanding section 7, the medical health officer may inspect The works during construction.
[am. b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 6.] Plans and data to be submitted to medical health officer 15 Three copies of plans and specifications for the construction or Renovation of a swimming pool shall be submitted to the medical Health officer, together with a completed "swimming pool data Sheet," in the form specified in appendix b hereto, copies of Which may be obtained from the minister's ministry.
[am. b.c. regs. 451/2003, s. 7; 4/2010, s. 3.] Construction in accordance with plans 16 The pool shall be constructed in accordance with the plans and Specifications as approved, unless approval of changes has been Given in writing by the medical health officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 7.] Walkway or apron around pool 17 Except for the portion of a pool to which section 35.1 applies, a Continuous apron or walkway shall extend completely around the Pool and provide (a) a minimum walkway width of 4 feet beyond the gutter System,
(b) drainage away from the pool edge in a manner that will Not create muddy, hazardous or objectionable conditions with the Pool enclosure, (c) when required, drains, covered with a grating, having an Equivalent opening of at least 12 square inches, (d) drains spaced at not more than 25 feet so that no more Than 400 square feet of apron area is tributary to any one drain, And
(e) drainage systems designed in accordance with good Engineering practice.
[am. b.c. reg. 88/86, s. 1.] Security fence 18 The pool shall be surrounded by a security fence sufficient in Design and height to exclude animals and unauthorized persons from The enclosed area. landscaping within the security fence must be Separated from the pool area by a barrier approved by the medical Health officer.
Depth marks 19 Depth marks for swimming pools shall (a) indicate the depth of water, (b) be located above the water surface on the pool wall and On the walkway at the pool edge, (c) be located at maximum and minimum depth, at 1 foot depth Increments between the shallow depth and the point of break Inclusive, and at other intermediate points spaced at not more Than 25 foot intervals measured peripherally, (d) be in arabic numerals of 4 inch minimum height, and (e) be a colour contrasting with background.
Slope of pool floor 20 The pool floor shall have a uniform slope not greater than 1 foot In 15 where the water depth is less than 5 feet. in commercial Pools the pool floor shall have a uniform slope not greater than 1 Foot in 12 feet where the water depth is less than 5 feet.
Requirements for diving 21 Pools of the type wherein diving is permitted shall have adequate Clearances and depth of water for safe diving and shall be as Indicated in appendix c. for diving platforms over 3 m in height, The federation internationale de natation amateur (fina) standards Shall be followed for clearances and water depths.
General requirements 22 In order to maintain proper sanitation and public safety Standards, every swimming pool shall have (a) a drinking water supply that meets the minister's Ministry requirements for potable water, (b) change rooms divided into 2 parts separated by a tight Partition, one part to be designated for men and the other for Women, with entrances and exits screened with partitions to break Line of sight, (c) the dressing rooms, toilets and showers arranged so that Bathers pass from the toilet or dressing room area through the Shower area and thence directly to the pool area; there shall be a Minimum occasion for patrons in bare feet and those in street Shoes to walk in the same area, (d) floors in dressing rooms, shower rooms, toilet areas, Pool basins and aprons and other paved areas, including stairs, Made of durable material which is impervious to moisture and Retains a texture which is non-slip and causes no discomfort to Bare feet with a minimum uniform slope to the drain of 1/4 inch Per foot.
(e) coved junctions between walls and floors in areas used by Bathers,
(f) walls and partitions of smooth, durable, impervious Material, free from cracks or open joints, (g) dressing rooms and toilet spaces ventilated either by Natural or mechanical means to minimize condensation, (h) privacy screens terminating at least 10 inches above the Floor level, and (i) hose bibs of not less than 3/4 inch pipe size to enable Thorough hosing down of all walks and floors and appurtenances Used by bathers with a hose having a maximum length of 75 feet and Recessed where possible or located away from traffic areas to Avoid accidents.
[am. b.c. reg. 4/2010, s. 3.] Commercial pool facilities 23 (1)  notwithstanding anything in this regulation to the Contrary, a commercial pool may be installed and operated without Providing, in conjunction therewith at the pool side, dressing Room, shower, washbasin, urinal or watercloset, drinking fountain, First aid kit, telephone, and without employing any lifeguard, Provided that (a) an adequate number of facilities, including waterclosets, Showers or bath and washbasins, are available elsewhere and the Pool is not more than 200 feet walking distance from the furthest Of these facilities, (b) a clearly visible notice or warning sign is posted at all Entrances to the pool, stating "warning—no lifeguard on duty" and Any other direction to protect the users of the pool.
(2)  notwithstanding subsection (1), the medical health Officer may exercise the power set out in section 24 in respect to Any commercial pool.
(3)  if a pool would be a commercial pool except that its use For swimming instruction is not restricted to members, tenants or Patrons of the enterprise or their guests, the pool is a Commercial pool for the purposes of this section and section 24.
[am. b.c. reg. 256/98, s. (a).] Showers and toilets 24 The medical health officer may require that, for each sex using a Commercial pool, a shower and a toilet be installed adjacent to The pool and may order any other measure consistent with these Regulations which he deems necessary for the safety and health of The users of the pool.
Artificial lighting 25 For indoor pools and pools used at night, a complete system of Artificial lighting must be provided supplying at least 15 foot Candles of illumination at all points 30 inches above the water Surface, the deck, and in areas of the change rooms used by Bathers.
Pool basin structure 26 A swimming pool basin shall be structurally sound and essentially Watertight; constructed of durable, impervious material which will Provide a finish free from cracks and open joints.
Pool basin finish and surface 27 A swimming pool basin shall have a (a) final finish which is white or light in colour, (b) smooth bottom surface where the water depth is more than 5 feet, and (c) non-slip surface which causes no discomfort to bare feet On the walls and on the bottom surfaces where the water depth is Less than 5 feet.
Hydrostatic relief valve requirement 28 Pools not designed to resist hydraulic uplift shall be provided With a hydrostatic relief valve.
Drop offs and projections 29 There shall be no abrupt drop off or submerged projection in a Pool other than properly marked stairs and safety ledges.
Part 5 - recirculation and plumbing requirements Pool water supply 30 The water in a swimming pool shall be separated (a) from any potable water supply by an approved backflow Preventer to ensure that the water in the pool system does not Flow back into the potable water supply, (b) by air gaps from the sewer or drainage system into which It drains, and (c) from a wading pool or therapeutic pool recirculation System.
Water recirculation 31 All swimming pools, except flow through pools, shall be designed To recirculate water continuously. the design flow rate for Swimming pools and commercial pools shall be determined on the Basis of a maximum turnover period of 6 hours and 12 hours Respectively.
Maximum turnover period 31.1 Despite section 31, a pool must have a maximum turnover period of 2 hours if it (a) is designed for play or leisure, (b) is equipped to generate moving water features such as Waves, rapid currents, vortices, sprays or water jets, and (c) has a maximum water depth of 48 inches or less.
[en. b.c. reg. 378/93, s. 1.] Pumps
32 Pumps shall be either self priming or located below the level of The pool. the pump shall be protected from objects that may damage It.
Piping
33 All piping shall be designed to minimize friction losses and to Carry the required quantity of water at a velocity not to exceed 10 feet per second in supply pipes and 6 feet per second in return Pipes. piping shall be of nontoxic material, resistant to Corrosion, able to withstand operating pressures and installed According to the manufacturer's recommendations.
Pool inlets 34 Pool inlet fittings must be submerged at least 24 inches below the Average operating level and located to produce, in so far as Possible, a uniform circulation of water and maintain a uniform Disinfectant concentration throughout the entire pool. inlet Fittings shall be of a type whereby the rate of flow through each Can be adjusted and, when placed in the pool wall, spaced not more Than 30 feet apart measured peripherally or one fitting for each 10 000 imperial gallons of pool volume, whichever is more. when Pool sidewalls are more than 44 feet apart, floor inlets shall be Used. if floor inlets are used, the number of inlet fittings shall Be at least equal to the number of wall inlets required and Arranged to carry surface water to the gutters or skimmers. if the Pool water depth is less than 24 inches, the inlet fittings must Be placed as near to the pool floor as possible.
[am. b.c. reg. 378/93, s. 2.] Gutters
35 Subject to section 42, overflow gutters shall extend along the Entire perimeter of any swimming pool having a surface area of More than 1 800 square feet. gutters may be omitted only at steps, Recessed ladders, or at pool wall sections located between the Gutter in the floor at the beach—like edge and the point on the Pool wall where the water reaches 36 inches.
[am. b.c. regs. 88/86, s. 2; 378/93, s. 3.] Skimmers
35.1 (1)  subject to section 42, if a pool is designed (a) to imitate a beach-like edge, (b) to have a continuous gutter flush with the pool floor Extending the entire length of the waterline formed at the Beach—like edge, and (c) to have the section of pool deck adjacent to the gutter Referred to in paragraph (b) confine waves of water from the pool That may travel beyond the gutter and return the water to the Gutter,
Gutters may be omitted where otherwise required provided that (d) the water depth in the area where the gutters are omitted Does not exceed 36 inches, (e) skimmers are provided in lieu of gutters and the skimmers Conform with subsection (2), and (f) gratings with openings not exceeding 30 mm in width are Installed over the front of each skimmer.
(2)  a sufficient number of skimmers shall be provided so That the theoretical turnover period of the water in the area to Which the skimmers relate is less than one hour measured by a rate Of flow indicator connected to the skimming devices.
[en. b.c. reg. 88/86, s. 3; am. b.c. reg. 378/93, s. 4.] Gutter drains 36 Gutter drains shall be provided at intervals of not more than 15 Feet and shall be at least 2 inches in diameter.
Pool main drain piping 37 The pool main drain piping shall (a) be separately valved from the gutters or skimmers and Discharge into the recirculation pump suction, surge tank or an Approved drain, and (b) have a capacity equal to 100% of the design flow rate.
Pool drain 38 The pool drain shall (a) be at the deepest point in the pool to permit the pool to Be completely and easily emptied, (b) have openings covered by a grating which is not readily Removable by bathers, and (c) have openings in the gratings so that the maximum Velocity of the water passing the grate will not exceed 1 1/2 feet Per second at design flow rate.
Drain connection to circulation system 39 All overflow gutters and main drains shall be connected to a Circulation system through a properly designed surge tank or Equivalent pipe or channel.
Surge tank 40 A surge tank, pipe or channel shall be installed and have a Working capacity of at least one cubic foot per bather, based on The maximum bathing load.
Overflow gutters 41 Overflow gutters shall be designed (a) to rapidly remove surface water at a rate equal to or Greater than the design flow rate and to avoid the gutters Becoming flooded, (b) so that the opening into the gutter beneath the coping or Deck is not less than 4 inches and the interior of the gutter is Not less than 3 inches wide and 3 inches deep, (c) to prevent entrance or entrapment of bathers' arms or Legs and designed with easy access for cleaning, and (d) to serve as a handhold so that their edges or lips are Rounded and not thicker than 2 1/2 inches for the top 2 inches.
Surface skimming devices 42 (1)  surface skimming devices may be used in place of the Requirements of sections 35, 36 and 39 to remove surface water From a pool if the pool (a) has a surface area of 1 800 square feet or less, or (b) is described by section 31.1.
(2)  if subsection (1) applies to a pool, the number of Surface skimming devices the pool must have is the greater of (a) the number of these devices calculated at the rate of one Device for each 450 square feet of pool surface area or portion Thereof, and (b) the number of these devices calculated at the rate of one Device for each 25 to 40 imperial gallons a minute of design flow Rate.
(3)  each surface skimming device must have a valve or other Means to regulate the flow of water through it and must be Positioned to remove surface water from the pool.
[en. b.c. reg. 378/93, s. 5; am. b.c. reg. 286/2002, s. (a).] Measurement of waste water 43 In those pools designed to waste the overflow water to sewer, or Otherwise, not less than 10% of the design flow rate shall pass Through the overflow devices or channels, and a water meter shall Be provided to measure the amount of waste water.
Rate of flow indicator 44 A rate of flow indicator located for easy viewing and calibrated In gallons per minute shall be provided and maintained for each Swimming pool to show the rate of pool water circulation. it shall Provide at least 95% degree of accuracy and be capable of flows Measuring from 50 to 150% of the design flow rate.
Disinfection equipment 45 Automatic disinfection equipment shall be installed in all Swimming pools and shall have sufficient capacity to feed up to 3 P.p.m. of chlorine or equivalent at indoor pools and 8 p.p.m. of Chlorine or equivalent at outdoor pools, based upon the design Flow rate.
Chlorine gas as disinfectant 46 When chlorine gas is used as a disinfectant, (a) the chlorinator room shall be located above ground level With an exit door opening outwardly and directly to the outdoors With a screened opening to the outdoors at ceiling level, (b) the chlorinator room shall be provided with emergency Mechanical ventilation taking suction at the floor level and Discharging it directly to the outdoors in a place remote from air Intake structures and occupied areas, and of sufficient capacity To produce 30 air changes per hour, (c) all openings in the chlorinator room, such as breaks Through the wall for piping, except for paragraphs (a) and (b), Shall be sealed with an elastromeric caulking compound to prevent The escape of chlorine gas, (d) canister type or self contained respiratory protective Equipment for use in a chlorine contaminated atmosphere, as Required by the workers' compensation board regulations, shall be Provided and located outside the chlorinator room and near enough For immediate use in case of an emergency, (e) the chlorination equipment shall be locked and the key Made readily available only to staff members trained in the proper Handling of chlorine, (f) the chlorine cylinder valve protection hood shall be kept In place, except when the cylinder is connected to the Chlorinator,
(g) the chlorine cylinders shall be securely anchored, (h) a valve stem wrench shall be maintained on the chlorine Cylinder or cylinders in use, (i) a weigh scale of suitable capacity for measuring the Weight of liquid chlorine and cylinder shall be provided, (j) the chlorine rooms shall be equipped with a viewing Window,
(k) a combination light and fan switch shall be located Outside the chlorine room beside the viewing window, (l) suitable warning signs shall be posted in accordance with The accident prevention regulations 1 Of the workers' compensation board, and (m) the chlorinator shall be designed to cease operation in Conjunction with the shutdown of the recirculating pumps.
Other means of disinfectant 47 If means other than chlorine are used as a disinfectant, residuals Of equivalent disinfecting strength shall be maintained in the Pool water in accordance with section 75.
Repealed
48 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 271/83.] Filter piping 49 The filter piping arrangement shall be as simple as possible to Accomplish the filtration and backwashing or cleaning. sand filter Units designed for performance at high rates of filtration, i.e., 4 to 12.5 imperial gallons per minute per square foot of filter Area, are acceptable for pools, provided that such filter units Meet the requirements of part 8.
Filter room 50 The size of the filter room shall provide sufficient space to Allow 6 inches of clearance between filter units and 18 inches of Clearance from walls, partitions and ceilings. in addition, other Clearances shall be provided as prescribed by the manufacturer for Dismantling the tank and removing components or contents and for Working space adequate to perform routine operations. space shall Also be provided for storage of chemicals and auxiliary equipment.
In rooms with fixed ceilings, the minimum room height shall be 7 Feet.
Filter units 51 The filter units shall be capable of operating at continuous Design flow rate and equipped with such pressure, vacuum or Compound gauges as are required to indicate the condition of the Filter. in vacuum type filter installations where the circulating Pump is 2 horsepower or more, an adequate automatic high vacuum Shut off shall be provided to prevent damage to the pump by Cavitation.
Flow through pools 52 Flow through pools shall have water added continuously at the Design flow rate. the quality of water added must be approved by The medical health officer and maintained to meet requirements of These regulations.
Plumbing fixtures 53 (1)  for swimming pools with a maximum bathing load of 480, As described in section 80, plumbing fixtures shall be provided in Accordance with the following table:
Required number Of fixtures Showers,
Male and female Waterclosets
Urinals, male Lavatories,
Male and female Male
Female
1 1 - 40 1 - 60 1 - 40 1 - 60 1 - 100 2 41 - 80 61 - 120 41 - 80 61 - 120 101 - 200 3 81 - 120 121 - 180 81 - 120 121 - 180 201 - 300 4 121 - 160 181 - 240 121 - 160 181 - 240 301 - 400 5 161 - 200 241 - 300 161 - 200 241 - 300 401 - 500 6 1 201 - 240 301 - 360 201 - 240 301 - 360 501 - 600 1 For pools having a total bathing load in excess of 480, Additional facilities must be provided on the basis of one Shower, one watercloset and one lavatory for each 200 Females or portion thereof, and one shower, one watercloset, One urinal and one lavatory for each 200 males or portion Thereof.
Note-for determining the number of fixtures for each sex, The total number of bathers may be considered as divided Between male and female on the ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 up to 1.5 to 1.0, or as determined from experience or proposed Pool use.
(2)  one drinking fountain for each 500 bathers or portion Thereof, to be located in the pool area.
Temperature of shower water 54 Thermostatic tempering or mixing valves shall, if necessary, be Installed to prevent scalding of bathers. in the event that manual Valves are used, each shall be suitably marked to differentiate Between the hot and cold supply. regardless of the controls used, The water temperature at the shower head shall be between 90 and 110° f.
Soap
55 Liquid or powdered soap in suitable dispensers shall be provided At each shower head and each lavatory.
Part 6 - miscellaneous equipment Diving board headroom 56 Not less than 16 feet free and unobstructed headroom shall be Provided above diving boards, which shall extend a clear distance Of 16 feet ahead, 8 feet to each side and 8 feet behind the free End of the board.
Access to diving boards and platforms 57 Diving boards and platforms more than 10 feet above the water Level shall have the access designed so that it may be controlled.
Guardrails
58 Diving boards and platforms greater than 4 feet above the water Level shall provide double guardrails for the portion of the board Or platform which is not above the water area.
Wall fittings and lifelines 59 Wall fittings and any other necessary fittings shall be installed So that a lifeline can be placed at the 5 foot depth to designate The boundary between the swimming area and the diving area of the Pool. alternatively, a 4 inch wide marking strip of contrasting Colour shall be placed down the sides and across the floor of the Pool at the 5 foot depth to designate the boundary between the 2 Areas.
Slides and play equipment 60 No slide or other piece of play equipment shall be installed or Constructed in any swimming pool without the medical health Officer's approval of the design and location of the equipment.
[am. b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 8.] Underwater ledges 61 A ledge may be provided on vertical walls at the deep end of a Swimming pool. it shall be a maximum of 6 inches wide and at least 48 inches below the water surface. the nose of the ledge shall be Rounded and marked in a contrasting colour.
Steps and ladders 62 Steps or ladders shall (a) be provided at the shallow end of the pool if the Vertical distance from the bottom of the pool to the deck or Walkway exceeds 2 feet, (b) be provided at the deep portion of the swimming pool, And, if the pool is over 30 feet wide at the deep end, such steps Or ladders shall be installed on each side, (c) be installed so as not to interfere with competitive Events, and (d) have at least 4 rungs when placed in water depths greater Than 5 feet.
Ladder construction 63 Swimming pool ladders shall be corrosion resistant and shall be Equipped with nonslip treads at least 3 inches wide and 13 inches Long.
Steps and stairs 64 Steps or stairs leading into a pool shall (a) be of nonslip design in accordance with section 22 (d), (b) have a minimum tread depth of 12 inches and a maximum Rise or height of 10 inches, (c) have the nose marked in a contrasting colour, and (d) be provided with suitable handrails to allow safe use of The steps or stairs.
Lockers and basket shelves 65 Lockers and basket shelves, if supplied for use at pools for Storage of bathers' clothing, shall be well ventilated, raised at Least 4 inches off the floor and readily cleanable.
Test kits 66 Every pool shall be provided with a suitable test kit for the Reliable determination of disinfectant residuals and the Hydrogen-ion concentration.
Vacuum cleaning system 67 An efficient vacuum cleaning system shall be provided capable of Cleaning the entire swimming pool floor. when the vacuum cleaning System is an integral part of the recirculation system, Connections shall be located in the walls of the swimming pool at Least 8 inches below the water level.
Ground fault circuit interrupters 68 Ground fault circuit interrupters shall be installed in all Swimming pools in accordance with the provincial electrical code.
Existing pools shall comply with this section by june 1, 1973, or Discontinue the use of underwater lighting by physically severing The circuits.
Lifeguard stands 69 Elevated lifeguard stands and lifesaving units shall be provided At all swimming pools on the basis of the following table:
Number of lifeguard stands And lifesaving units Pool area (square feet) 0 Less than 1 800 1 of each 1 800 — 3 500 2 of each 3 500 — 5 000 1 of each for every 150 feet of pool perimeter More than 5 000 Foot baths 70 If foot baths are provided, they shall be equipped with adequate Water supply and drain designed for continuous flow through Operation.
Part 7 - operation and inspection Posting of operating permit 71 The operator shall ensure that the operating permit is posted in a Conspicuous place in the swimming pool area during such time as The operating permit is valid and subsisting with respect to the Pool.
Repealed
72 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 49/2009, s. 2 (f).] Requirements for operation 73 Every swimming pool manager shall ensure that (a) a minimum of 2 staff members are on duty at all swimming Pools when the pool is open to the public, to include one Lifeguard and another person conversant with the emergency plan For the pool, (b) the pool is under the close supervision of either a Lifeguard when the pool is open for general use or a swimming Instructor when the pool is used only for instruction, or both Lifeguard and instructor when the pool is used simultaneously for General use and instruction, (c) at least one lifeguard is on duty at pool side for each 100 persons or portion thereof within the pool area, (d) there is at least one lifeguard, 17 years or older, on Duty at pool side, (e) effective measures are taken to see that dogs and other Animals are not permitted to enter the pool area, (f) no bather is permitted to enter the pool water until he Has taken a cleansing shower, using warm water and soap, (g) no person enters the pool who (i)  is obviously ill, (ii)  has an open wound or sore, (iii)  is wearing a bandage, (iv)  has sore or infected eyes, or (v)  has discharging ears or nose, (h) all bathing suits and towels supplied to bathers are Laundered after each use, and that the method of cleaning, storing And handling rental bathing suits and towels is that approved by The medical health officer, (i) the pool aprons, walkways, dressing rooms, shower rooms And toilets are cleaned at least daily and kept free of all Equipment and material not needed for the proper operation of the Pool,
(j) a standard no. 2 unit kit (first aid), as recommended by The workers' compensation board, is fully stocked and readily Available for use at all times, (k) lifesaving units are mounted in conspicuous places and Ready for use at all times, (l) only persons in clean bathing attire, the owner of the Pool and his servants or agents and persons mentioned in part 12 Of these regulations are allowed to enter the pool area, except as Otherwise provided in these regulations, (m) officials and spectators who may be dressed in street Clothes are allowed to enter the pool area only for special Functions,
(n) a set of rules governing the use of the pool is posted in A prominent position and states that (i)  all persons with open sores, bandages, head colds, Discharging ears or noses or infected eyes are forbidden to enter The pool area, (ii)  a cleansing shower using warm water and soap is Mandatory before entering the pool area, (iii)  running, fighting or any form of conduct likely to Cause an accident in the pool is forbidden, (iv)  all accidents must be reported to the pool manager at Once, and (v)  no bather shall be permitted to enter a swimming pool Unless under supervision of a qualified swimming instructor or Lifeguard,
(o) the water in a filled pool is of such clarity that the Pattern of the pool drain can be clearly seen by a person standing On the edge of the pool at the deep end, (p) the pool water and the pool walls and bottom are kept Free of visible dirt, litter, body oil and algal growth, (q) the pool water is tested at least once every day of Operation to determine the ph (hydrogen-ion concentration) and Maintained at a value of not less than 7.4, (r) the pool water is tested frequently for residual Disinfectant before and during each period of swimming pool usage And maintained in accordance with section 75, (s) the water in all pools except therapeutic pools is not Artificially heated to a temperature above 98° f, (t) a private line telephone is installed for the purpose of Emergencies and a list of numbers to include the nearest available Doctor, ambulance service, hospital and police or fire department Rescue unit is prominently displayed adjacent to the telephone, (u) decks and floors are maintained with a nonslip surface, (v) the water level in the pool is maintained so that at Least 50% of the design flow rate is continuously flowing to the Overflow gutters or skimmers during pool use, and (w) the lifeline or the alternate marking strip is in place At the 5 foot depth in accordance with section 59.
[am. b.c. reg. 286/2002, s. (b).] Restriction of use of diving boards and platforms 74 The use of diving boards and platforms shall be restricted in the Interest of safety at the discretion of the swimming pool manager.
Residual disinfectant 75 A suitable residual of a disinfectant shall be maintained Throughout the swimming pool water. the minimum disinfectant Residual maintained, in parts per million, shall be as follows:
Disinfectant
Type of residual Ph
7.4 - 7.8 Higher than 7.8 Chlorine
Free available chlorine 0.5 1.0 Chlorine cyanurate Free available chlorine 1.0 1.5 Bromine
Bromine
1.0 1.5 The use of any other disinfectant shall comply with part 8 of These regulations. water samples for residual tests shall be taken From a point near the outlet of the pool, or as directed by the Medical health officer.
Water sampling 76 Water samples taken from swimming pools for bacteriological Examination will be taken at a time when the pool is in use from a Point near the outlet of the pool and at such additional sampling Points as may be selected by the medical health officer. the Multiple tube fermentation technique, using 5 to 10 millilitre Portions, shall be used to measure the presence of organisms of The coliform group in accordance with "standard methods for the Examination of water and wastewater".
Corrective action 77 The medical health officer shall order immediate corrective action When the results of any single sample tested for the presence of Organisms of the coliform group in accordance with section 76 show 3 or more positive portions.
Repeat sampling 78 After corrective action has been taken in accordance with section 77, a repeat sample or series of samples shall be taken and tested In accordance with section 76. if the results of any of the repeat Samples show a positive portion, the medical health officer may, At his discretion, order the swimming pool closed and revoke the Operating permit.
Records
79 The manager shall keep a daily record of all accidents, maximum Bathing loads, attendance, amount and types of chemicals added to The water, the results of those tests done for residual Disinfectant and ph, and any other records deemed necessary by the Medical health officer. the records must be available for Inspection by the medical health officer and reported to him as he May direct.
Maximum number of bathers 80 The maximum number of bathers permitted in the swimming pool area At one time shall not exceed a number determined by the following Formula:
Maximum bathing load = D
+ S
27 10 Where d = area of swimming pool in square feet where the water Depth is more than 5 feet, and Where s = area of swimming pool in square feet where the water Depth is less than 5 feet.
Pool depths of less than 2 feet shall not be considered in the Calculations.
The manager shall provide a method of determining the total number Of bathers in the pool by numbering lockers, keys, tags, etc., so That the above requirement is met, or further limit the maximum Bathing load in the interest of public safety and possible Overcrowding.
Operator certificate of competency 81 Every swimming pool shall be operated and maintained by a Competent operator and manager. the minister's ministry may Require a certificate of competency obtained through attendance And successful completion of an approved swimming pool operator's Training course as evidence of compliance with this section.
[am. b.c. reg. 4/2010, s. 3.] Part 8 - equipment, chemicals and procedures Evaluation of equipment, chemicals or features 82 The minister may initiate any programme of study to evaluate any Equipment, chemicals or design features for use in the Construction, operation or maintenance of pools.
Construction and maintenance standards 83 Only equipment, design features and materials approved by the Canadian standards association, the national sanitation foundation Or the minister shall be used in the construction, operation or Maintenance of a pool Part 9 - therapeutic pools Provisions applicable to therapeutic pools 84 (1)  parts 10 and 11 shall not apply to therapeutic pools.
(2)  provisions of part 9 shall govern the construction, Operation and maintenance of the therapeutic pool, notwithstanding Any conflicting provisions elsewhere in these regulations.
Recirculation rate 85 The recirculation rate through the filter system shall be Sufficient to pass the entire volume of the pool in one hour or Less.
Supervision of bathers 86 If a therapeutic pool is operated as a health establishment, the Manager shall be responsible for the continuous supervision of Bathers. at all other establishments where a therapeutic pool is Operated, the manager may be required by the medical health Officer to employ a person to be responsible for the continuous Supervision of bathers.
Seats and benches 87 Seats and benches shall have a nonslip surface and the edges shall Be marked in a contrasting colour.
Pool walls 88 Pool walls shall have a smooth finish to facilitate cleaning.
Water velocity 89 A maximum velocity of water through the drains of any of the Recirculation systems shall be 1 1/2 feet per second.
Toilets and showers 90 A minimum of one toilet and one shower shall be provided Conveniently near the pool for each sex.
Walkways
91 Pools less than 100 square feet in area may have a reduced walkway Width of 2 feet for up to 75% of the pool perimeter. the access to The pool shall be from a walkway 4 feet or greater in width.
Safety notices 92 A clearly visible notice or warning sign shall be posted at all Entrances to the pool, stating such directions necessary for the Safety of the patrons.
Clock
93 A clock of sufficient size and design shall be located to be seen By those in the pool.
Part 10 - portable instruction pools Provisions applicable to portable instruction pools 94 (1)  parts 9 and 11 shall not apply to portable instruction Pools.
(2)  provisions of part 10 shall govern the construction, Operation and maintenance of a portable instruction pool, Notwithstanding any conflicting provisions elsewhere in these Regulations.
Design and use 95 Portable instruction pools shall be (a) completely portable and designed with consideration given To sanitation and safety, and (b) used only for water safety instruction.
Medical health officer may grant temporary exemptions 96 (1)  the medical health officer, by notice in writing, may Grant temporary exemptions from provisions in these regulations in The case of a portable instruction pool, provided he is satisfied That such exemptions do not create a sanitation or safety danger To users of the portable instruction pool or to members of the Public.
(2)  in his notice of exemption aforesaid, the medical health Officer must specify the period of exemption and the model or Individual portable instruction pools being exempted.
[am. b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 7.] Standards of design and installation 97 Standards of design and installation for portable instruction Pools may be set from time to time at the discretion of the Minister and be such as to promote sanitary and safe conditions.
Part 11 - wading and spray pools Requirements for wading and spray pools 98 (1)  wading pools and spray pools shall (a) be made of durable material which is impervious to Moisture and retains a texture which is nonslip and causes no Discomfort to bare feet, (b) be completely free of obstructions which may be hazardous To children, (c) have a floor with a maximum slope of 1 in 15 and a Minimum of 1 in 50, (d) be entirely surrounded by a walkway at least 4 feet wide Which falls away from the pool or basin edge at a uniform slope of Not less than 1 in 50, and (e) have a fence or other barrier with controlled access Surrounding the pool and the walkways to prevent the easy access Of non-users and pets.
(2)  subsection (1) (e) does not apply to spray pools.
[am. b.c. reg. 286/2002, s. (c).] Pool filling 99 A wading pool shall be either filled with potable water each day It is used, drained before dark and left empty overnight or, as an Alternate, the entire volume of the wading pool recirculated Through an approved filter in 2 hours or less, in which case a Security fence and lockable gate is to be provided.
Water quality 100 The quality of water used in a wading pool and for a spray pool Must be approved by the medical health officer.
Inlet fittings 101 Inlet fittings in wading pools using recirculation systems shall Be submerged and located to produce uniform distribution of clean Water throughout the pool.
No cross connections 102 There shall be no cross connections between a wading pool or spray Pool and any potable water supply, the water circulation system of Any swimming pool or any sewer.
Toilet and drinking facilities 103 Separate toilet facilities with hand basin shall be provided near The wading pool for each sex. a drinking fountain shall be Provided near the pool.
Floor finish 104 The floor of the wading pool shall be finished in a light colour.
Part 12 and 13 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 5.] Appendix a Repealed. [b.c. reg. 275/92, s. (b).] Appendix b Swimming pool data sheet (indoor) (outdoor) Name of pool ...........................................................
Address
....................................................................
City or town ..............................................................................................................................................
Owner or Operator.......................................................
Designer
..................................................................
Address
..................................................................
Address
...................................................................
Prof. eng.
Arch.
1 Pool area .....(sq. ft.); deck..... (sq. ft.) water depth:
Min......(ft.), max...... (ft.) 2 Maximum bathing load: shallow (s) ..... deep (d)..... total ..........
3 Pool volume ......... (imp. gals.) 4 Turnover ......... (hrs.) at design flow rate of .........
(imp. g.p.m.) 5 Recirculating pump: make and model ......... flow.........
(imp. g.p.m.) at......... (ft. tdh) 6 Filters: sand Diatomite
Pressure
Vacuum
Gravity
Nsf approved: yes No
Make and model .......................................................
Surface area (each filter).......... (sq. ft.) Surface area (each element).......... (sq. ft.) Rate of filtration.......... (imp. g.p.m./sq. ft.) Total filter capacity ...............
Max. velocity: return piping (from pool) .............................. (f.p.s.); Supply piping (to pool) ............... (f.p.s.) Gauges: pressure Vacuum
Number .............................................
Number of filters ....... number of elements.......
Total area (all filters) ............... (sq. ft.) Total area (all elements) .......... (sq. ft.) Rate of backwash ........ (imp. g.p.m./sq. ft.) Rate of filtration x total area... (imp. g.p.m.) Rate of flow indicator: make and model ...........
.............................. range...............
To.................
7 Feeders: chemical Slurry
Make and model ..............................
Capacity .............................................
Injection point .............................................
Chemicals used ..................................................
Make and model .................................................
Capacity
.............................................................
Injection
Point.....................................................
8 Backwash pump: make and model ............... flow..... (imp.
G.p.m.) at ..... (ft. tdh) Backwash rate per filter ............... (imp. g.p.m.) 9 Disinfection: hypochlorite Chlorine gas Other
............................................................
Make and model .............................. capacity .............................. or lb./24 hr.
Point of injection: filter infl.
Filter effl.
Max. dosing rate ...............p.p.m.
10 Pool inlets: type ............... size ............... total Number ............... at ............... ft. spacing.
Depth below w/l ............... (in.) 11 Main drain: make and model ............................................................
Number ...............
Size of free opening ............... (sq. in.) vel. through Grate opening............... (f.s.) 12 Overflow: gutter Rollout
Deck level Number of drains ............... at ............... ft.
Spacing; size ............... (in.) Skimmers: make and model ...............................................................................................................
Max. capacity............... (imp. g.p.m.) number of Skimmers..... at ..... (sq. ft./skimmer) Normal flow through overflows ............... % nsf approved:
Yes
No
13 Makeup water:
Source, public Private
Control: manual Automatic
Backflow preventer: yes No
Size of makeup line ............... (in.) Air-gapped: yes No
Make and model ................................................
14 Water piping: copper Galv.
Plastic
Other ......................................................
15 Remarks (for health dept. use) The foregoing data are true statements of facts pertaining to This pool as it is to be constructed.
Date ............................................
(signed) .............................................................
(design engineer or architect) Appendix c D-1 shall be at end wall of diving area or not more than 6 inches From this wall.
D may vary, but slope of d shall not exceed 1 foot vertical in 2 Feet horizontal. distance between boards shall not be less than 8 Feet centre to centre. there shall be a walkway at least 3 feet wide Behind diving-boards.
Stands and Boards
Depth
Length of section D-1
D-2
D-3
D-4
D-5
A
B
C
D
E
F
3 metre board (minimum) (maximum) 5'0" — 5'0" — 12'0" — 11'9" — 10'0" — 5'0" 6'0" 8'0" 1 10'0" 12'0" — 15'0" — 3'0" — 12'0" — 1 metre board (minimum) (maximum) 5'0" — 5'0" — 10'6" — 10'0" — 9'0" — 5'0" 6'0" 8'0" 10'0" 12'0" — 10'0" — 2'0" — 8'0" — Deck level (minimum) (maximum) 5'0" — 5'0" — 9'0" — 8'6" — 8'0" — 2'6" 4'0" 6'0" 2 10'0" 6'0" — 12'0" — 2'0" — 8'0" — No board — — — — — — — — — — — 1 B and c may vary to attain total 20'0" minimum.
2 B and c may vary to attain total 12'0" minimum.
1.
See now b.c. reg. 296/97, occupational health and safety Regulation
[provisions of the Public health act , s.b.c. 2008, c. 28, relevant to the enactment of these Regulations: section 115] Section 15 before amended by bc reg 4/2010, effective january 14, 2010.
Plans and data to be submitted to medical health officer 15 Three copies of plans and specifications for the construction or Renovation of a swimming pool shall be submitted to the medical Health officer, together with a completed "swimming pool data Sheet," in the form specified in appendix b hereto, copies of Which may be obtained from the ministry of health.
[am. b.c. reg. 451/2003, s. 7.] Section 22 (a) before amended by bc reg 4/2010, effective january 14, 2010.
(a) a drinking water supply that meets the ministry of health Requirements for potable water, Section 81 before amended by bc reg 4/2010, effective january 14, 2010.
Operator certificate of competency 81 Every swimming pool shall be operated and maintained by a Competent operator and manager. the ministry of health may require A certificate of competency obtained through attendance and Successful completion of an approved swimming pool operator's Training course as evidence of compliance with this section.