"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
Geophysical Exploration Regulation
B.C. Reg. 361/98
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 280/2010, effective October 4,
2010.
B.C. Reg. 361/98
Oil and Gas Commission
Deposited October 23, 1998
effective October 23, 1998
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
Geophysical Exploration Regulation
Interpretation
1
In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act"
means the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
;
"authorized commission employee"
, in a provision of this regulation, means an employee of the
commission who is designated in writing by the commission as an
authorized commission employee for the purposes of that provision,
and includes the commissioner and deputy commissioner;
"cutline"
means a cutline made by hand or machine in the course of
geophysical exploration;
"highway"
includes every highway within the meaning of the
Transportation Act
, and every road, street, lane or right of way designed or
intended for or used by the general public for the passage of
vehicles, and every private place or passageway to which the
public, for the purpose of the parking or servicing of vehicles,
has access or is invited;
"monument"
means any survey post, together with any auxiliary reference mark
such as a wooden post, azimuth bar, bearing tree, cairn, mound,
pit, trench or tower, which has been established to mark the
boundary of a parcel of land, right of way, traverse station,
triangulation station or boundary of British Columbia;
"operator"
means the person named as initiating and responsible for a project
in an application under section 3;
"project"
means a program of geophysical exploration applied for under
section 3;
"project number"
means the number assigned to each project by the commission for
identification purposes;
"shot point"
means the location of the energy source used in seismic
operations.
[am. B.C. Reg. 602/2004, s. 1.]
Application
2
This regulation applies to all geophysical exploration for
petroleum and natural gas in British Columbia.
Application for project approval
3
(1)  An application for approval to undertake a project must
be made in the form required by the commission.
(2)  If an operator proposes to alter the geophysical
exploration from that described in the original application, the
operator must submit a revised application to the commission.
(3)  An authorized commission employee may grant to an
operator a written exemption from subsection (2), subject to any
conditions specified in the exemption, if the proposed alteration
(a) does not substantially change the geophysical exploration
from that described in the original application, or
(b) results in reduced disturbance to the environment than
would have been caused by the project described in the original
application.
[en. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 1.]
Reports
4
(1)  Before commencing a project, an operator must, as
directed by an authorized commission employee, supply information
regarding access to the area, terrain conditions and any
anticipated environmental impact.
(2)  The operator must advise an authorized commission
employee of the location of the headquarters of the crew
conducting the project and must advise promptly of any change in
the location of their headquarters.
(3)  The operator must submit a report to an authorized
commission employee at the time of commencement of the project and
termination of the project and at weekly intervals while the
project is in progress, setting out the length of line recorded,
the location of any shot holes that released gas or water, the
location of any charges that failed to detonate and any other
information requested by an authorized commission employee.
(3.1)  An authorized commission employee may grant to an
operator a written exemption from all or part of subsection (3),
subject to any conditions specified in the exemption, if the
authorized commission employee is satisfied the project
(a) will be completed in less than 3 weeks, or
(b) does not involve the drilling of shot holes and the use
of explosives.
(4)  The operator must file a final plan with the commission
within 60 days after the completion of a project except under an
exemption in writing granted by an authorized commission employee
to the operator, and subject to any conditions specified in the
exemption.
(5)  The final plan must
(a) utilize a 1:50 000 scale seismic trail map as the base
map,
(b) be clearly identified by the National Topographic Series
or Township and Range,
(c) show the location of roads, trails and cutlines that were
used to gain access,
(d) show existing cutlines that were used to acquire data,
(e) show the location of new cutlines that were cut to
acquire data,
(f) show the location of detours constructed for exploration
equipment and indicate their length and width in metres,
(g) show the location and size of campsites and landing
strips constructed or used,
(h) show the location and identifying number of each shot
point,
(i) show the total length in kilometres of all existing
cutlines that were utilized to acquire data,
(j) show the total length in kilometres and width in metres
of all new cutlines that were cut to acquire data, and
(k) show the total length in kilometres and width in metres
of all new cutlines that were cut to gain access.
(5.1)  If an authorized commission employee considers it
appropriate in the circumstances of a particular case, he or she
may grant to an operator a written exemption from one or more of
paragraphs (a) to (k) of subsection (5), subject to any conditions
specified in the exemption.
(6)  An authorized commission employee may require the
operator to submit processed record sections or other geophysical
data deemed appropriate by the authorized commission employee.
[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 2.]
Registered traplines
5
(1)  An operator must, before commencement of work, endeavour
to provide notice to the holders of registered traplines in the
area of proposed geophysical exploration.
(2)  The notice must include a detailed description of the
operations and the course to be followed by any equipment used,
and the operator must report to the commission the methods used to
provide this notification.
(3)  If an authorized commission employee considers it
appropriate in the circumstances of a particular case, he or she
may grant to an operator a written exemption from subsection (1),
subject to any conditions specified in the exemption.
[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 3.]
Consent of highway authorities
6
Geophysical exploration must not be conducted within any highway
right of way maintained by the minister responsible for the
Transportation Act
until the consent in writing of that minister has first been
obtained, and a copy of that consent must be supplied immediately
to the commission.
[am. B.C. Reg. 602/2004, s. 2.]
Survey monuments
7
(1)  Before commencement of any clearing, ditching or grading
work, an operator must
(a) ascertain from the Surveyor General the location of
survey monuments in the vicinity of the proposed work,
(b) mark conspicuously the location of each monument by a
flag attached to the top of a pole at least 2 metres from the
ground, and
(c) take precautions as necessary to ensure that no monument
is defaced, altered, disturbed or damaged during the course of the
work.
(2)  If an operator finds a monument in a damaged or
disturbed condition the operator must report this immediately to
the commission.
(3)  An operator who has destroyed, moved or damaged a
monument must
(a) make a full report immediately to the commission,
(b) ensure that the monument is restored by a British
Columbia Land Surveyor, and
(c) bear the full costs of the restoration.
Geophysical exploration near pipeline, utility, residence, etc.
8
(1)  If geophysical exploration is conducted in the vicinity
of any gas, oil or water pipeline or well, electric cable,
transmission line, utility, residence or other improvement, every
precaution must be taken by the operator to ensure that the
pipeline, well, electric cable, transmission line, utility,
residence or other improvement is not damaged and that its use is
not interrupted.
(2)  Despite the generality of subsection (1), any method of
geophysical exploration in relation to a facility described in
column (1) of the Schedule must not be conducted at a distance
less than the minimum distance shown in column (2) or (3).
Shot hole plugging
9
(1)  A shot hole must be plugged immediately after drilling
in the following manner:
(a) the drilling mud and any material from the hole must be
returned to fill the hole;
(b) a plug of a diameter not less than that of the hole must
be driven into the hole to a depth of not less than 45 centimetres
below the surface;
(c) the section above the plug must be filled with a suitable
material, approved by an authorized commission employee, and
firmly tamped;
(d) any surplus soil or other material removed in the
drilling of any hole must be spread so as to avoid interference
with drainage, and ground contours must be restored as nearly as
possible to original condition.
(2)  If a shot hole has been drilled but an explosive has not
been placed in the hole, a temporary plug may be used.
(3)  If, during the course of operations, a plug from a
previously abandoned hole is disturbed, the operator must complete
the plugging in accordance with this section.
Marking shot holes
10
(1)  A shot hole, before or immediately after being drilled,
must be marked with a metal tag.
(2)  If seismic exploration does not entail the drilling of
holes, all lines used to acquire data must be marked with a
minimum of 8 metal tags per kilometre.
(3)  Metal tags must be of a minimum size of 5 centimetres by
7 centimetres, inscribed with the project number, line number and
shot point number in such a manner that the information does not
become illegible or obliterated.
(4)  The tag must be wired or nailed to a post or tree if
possible or otherwise be fixed in close proximity to and not more
than 10 metres from the shot hole or shot point, and if the shot
hole or shot point is on a road allowance or highway right of way
the tag must be on the same side of the road allowance or highway.
(5)  If an authorized commission employee considers it
appropriate in the circumstances of a particular case, he or she
may grant to an operator a written exemption from one or more of
subsections (1) to (4), subject to any conditions specified in the
exemption.
[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 4.]
Unexploded charges
11
(1)  Explosives must not be left in a hole unless sufficient
earth is placed in the hole to secure the explosive.
(2)  An explosive charge that fails to discharge must be
detonated immediately by another shot, or the charge and any wires
remaining attached thereto must be buried in the hole and the hole
filled with earth and plugged in accordance with section 9.
(3)  The operator must take all necessary actions to ensure
that unexploded charges do not present a hazard to persons or
property.
(4)  The operator, on completion of a project, must report
all unexploded charges to the commission.
Flow of gas or water
12
(1)  If gas or water is released and flows to the surface
during or after the drilling of a hole,
(a) drilling must be discontinued immediately,
(b) an explosive charge must not be detonated in the hole,
(c) the hole must be plugged in a manner that confines the
gas or water to the originating stratum or aquifer and does not
hinder future use of the surface for agriculture or other
purposes, and
(d) a flowing hole report must be submitted without undue
delay to the commission.
(2)  Despite subsection (1), a hole may be completed as a
water well if
(a) proof is filed with the commission that arrangements have
been made previously with the surface owner and lawful occupant,
or their agents, to complete the hole,
(b) the flow of water is properly controlled,
(c) completion of the hole will not result in damage to other
lands or property or interfere with the rights of others, and
(d) the hole is not located on a highway.
Inspection
13
(1)  An operator who has conducted a project when the ground
is frozen in an area used for agricultural purposes or that is
frequented or likely to be frequented by persons or domestic
animals must
(a) inspect all shot holes drilled during the project and do
any work required to place the shot holes in a condition that
meets the requirements of sections 9 (1), 10 (1), (3) and (4), 11
(2) and (3) and 12 (1) (c), and
(b) submit a report to the commission listing all shot holes
inspected, the date on which the inspection was done, the
condition of the shot holes and the remedial work undertaken.
(2)  The requirements of subsection (1) must be performed
during the period immediately following spring breakup and before
August 31 of that year.
(3)  Despite subsection (2), if the project is located in an
area of government reserve used for community pasture purposes,
the requirements of subsection (1) must be performed during the
period immediately following spring breakup and before May 31 of
that year.
(4)  If an authorized commission employee considers that
ground conditions are such that unreasonable damage to the ground
would be caused by an inspection required under subsection (1), he
or she may grant to an operator a written exemption from the time
constraint in subsection (2) or (3), subject to a condition
requiring the inspection to be carried out within a specified
period.
[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 5.]
Refuse removal
14
Flags, pin flags, any other temporary survey marker and all refuse
resulting from the conduct of geophysical exploration must be
removed by the operator when the project is completed.
Campsite abandonment
15
A campsite must not be abandoned until
(a) all refuse, liquid wastes and garbage have been disposed
of in a manner that will not have an adverse effect on the
environment,
(b) all slash resulting from campsite construction has been
burned or otherwise disposed of in a manner that will not have an
adverse effect on the environment, and
(c) the site has been levelled and restored as nearly as
possible to the conditions that prevailed when operations were
commenced.
Repair of damage
16
(1)  If geophysical exploration causes damage to any land or
property, an operator must
(a) take immediate steps to prevent further damage, and
(b) repair the damage as soon as possible.
(2)  If the operator does not make the repair required by
subsection (1) an authorized commission employee may order the
repair and recover the cost of repair from the bond provided under
section 18.
Use of trails and roads made on Crown lands
17
(1)  Any person may, without charge, use for ordinary travel
the trails or roads built by an operator upon Crown lands or
maintained by the operator in connection with his exploratory
operations.
(2)  A person must not interfere in any way with the use of a
trail or road built or maintained by the operator.
Bonding
18
As a requirement of a project, the commissioner or deputy
commissioner may order an operator to provide a performance bond
in an amount not to exceed $100 000.
Term of geophysical licence
19
A geophysical licence is valid for a term not exceeding 3 years
from the date it is issued or renewed.
[en. B.C Reg. 257/2003, Sch. A, s. 6.]
Schedule
(section 8 (2))
1
In this Schedule,
"oil or gas pipeline"
means a pipeline for the transmission of oil or gas that has a
maximum operating pressure of 690 kilopascals or greater.
(1)
Facility
(2)
Non-explosive Method
(3)
Explosive Method
Charge Weight
(kg)
Distance
(metres)
Residence or place of public concourse
50
all
180
Water well
100 (Vibroseis)
50 (other than vibroseis)
all
180
Driveway, gateway or buried water pipelines
5
all
10
Survey monument or buried telephone or
telecommunication line
1
all
1
Oil or gas pipeline (measured from the centre line
of the pipeline) and an oil or gas well
15
> 2
> 4
> 6
> 8
> 10
> 20
> 40
<
2
<
4
<
6
<
8
<
10
<
20
<
40
<
100
32
45
55
64
72
101
143
226
Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 348/88.
[Provisions of the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 361, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 36]
