"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Securities Act
BC Instrument 22-502 Registration by the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada
B.C. Reg. 107/2008
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Section 3
September 28, 2009
Section 4
September 28, 2009
Section 5
September 28, 2009
Section 7
September 28, 2009
Section 3 BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 226/2009, effective September
28, 2009.
Application
3
For registration in a category listed below, or renewal of,
reinstatement of or amendment to registration in a category listed
below, the applicant must apply to the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada as
(a) an investment dealer,
(b) a trading partner, director or officer of an investment
dealer,
(c) a salesperson of an investment dealer, or
(d) an underwriter that is a member of the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.
Section 4 (1) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 226/2009, effective September
28, 2009.
(1)  On application by an applicant that is a member of the
Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada and on payment
of the prescribed fee the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada may,
(a) subject to subsection (2), register an investment dealer,
underwriter or trading partner, director or officer or salesperson
of an investment dealer if the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada considers the applicant to be suitable for
registration in the capacity applied for,
(b) subject to subsection (3) refuse to grant or renew a
registration referred to in paragraph (a) if the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada considers the applicant to be
unsuitable for registration,
(c) renew, reinstate or amend a registration referred to in
paragraph (a), and
(d) subject to subsection (3), restrict a registration under
paragraph (a) or renewal, reinstatement or amendment of registration
under paragraph (c), by imposing conditions on the registration,
including but not limited to conditions restricting
(i)  the duration of registration, and
(ii)  the registration to trades in specified securities or
exchange contracts or to a specified class of securities or class of
exchange contracts.
Section 5 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 226/2009, effective September
28, 2009.
Powers under section 35 (2) of the Act
5
(1)  The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada may refuse registration, pursuant to section 35 (2) of the
Act, if an applicant or partner, director or officer of an
applicant is not a resident of British Columbia on the date of
application, unless, at the time of application, the applicant or
the applicant's partner, director or officer
(a) is registered in a capacity corresponding to that of a
dealer, underwriter, adviser, trading partner, director or officer
or salesperson under the law of the jurisdiction respecting
trading in securities in which the applicant or the applicant's
partner, director or officer or salesperson last resided, and
(b) has been so registered for at least one year immediately
before the date of application.
(2)  The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada must not refuse to grant, renew, reinstate or amend a
registration without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.
Section 7 (b), (d), (e) and (f) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 226/2009,
effective September 28, 2009.
(b) an underwriter submitting information about a permitted
individual;
(d) a trading partner, director or officer of an investment
dealer;
(e) a salesperson of an investment dealer; or
(f) an underwriter that is a member of the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada.
