"point in time" regulation content Local government act Local government officer's certification regulation B.c. reg. 83/90 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 324/2005, effective december 31, 2005.
B.c. reg. 83/90 O.c. 363/90 Deposited march 12, 1990 Local government act Local government officer's certification regulation Interpretation
1 In this regulation:
"board" Means the board of examiners established under division 3 of part 5.1 of the Local government act ; "lgma" Means the local government management association of british Columbia.
[am. b.c. reg. 7/2001, s. 2.] Intermediate certificate in local government administration 2 The board may grant an intermediate certificate in local Government administration to a person who (a) has completed at least 2 years of employment by a Municipality, regional district or improvement district in british Columbia as an officer (i)  in a position assigned responsibility for corporate Administration under the Local government act , or as deputy to that officer, (ii)  in a position assigned responsibility for financial Administration under the Local government act , or as deputy to that officer, (iii)  in a position, other than department head, that in the Board's opinion is the equivalent of a position referred to in Subparagraphs (i) or (ii).
(b) has (i)  successfully completed the lgma intermediate education Program,
(ii)  successfully completed at least half the courses of the Institute of chartered secretaries and administrators course of Studies,
(iii)  successfully completed at least half the courses for The chartered accountants, certified general accountants or Registered industrial accountants programs, (iv)  a bachelor's degree from a canadian university Recognized as a degree granting institution by the government of The province in which it is situated, or (v)  successfully completed a course of studies that, in the Opinion of the board, is equivalent to one or more of the Qualifications referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iv), and (c) has completed the following lgma intermediate level Education program courses or their equivalent as accepted by the Board: local government administration; public finance; Administration and local government law; municipal services.
[am. b.c. reg. 7/2001, ss. 3, 4 and 5.] Senior certificate in local government administration 3 The board may grant a senior certificate in local government Administration to a person who (a) has completed at least 4 years of employment by a Municipality, regional district or improvement district in british Columbia as an officer (i)  in a position assigned responsibility for corporate Administration under the Local government act , or as deputy to that officer, (ii)  in a position assigned responsibility for financial Administration under the Local government act , or as deputy to that officer, (iii)  in a position, other than department head, that in the Board's opinion is the equivalent of a position referred to in Subparagraphs (i) or (ii).
(b) has (i)  successfully completed the lgma senior education Program,
(ii)  a bachelor of commerce degree, bachelor of law degree, Master of business administration degree, master of public Administration degree or a diploma in public sector management, From a canadian university recognized as a degree granting Institution by the government of the province in which it is Situated,
(iii)  a current membership in the canadian institute of Chartered accountants, the institute of chartered secretaries and Administrators, the certified general accountants association of British columbia or the society of management accounts, or (iv)  successfully completed a course of studies that, in the Opinion of the board, is equivalent to one or more of the Qualifications referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iii), and (c) has completed the following lgma senior level education Program courses or their equivalent as accepted by the board:
Principles of administration; urban and regional economics; local Government law; local government policy.
[am. b.c. reg. 7/2001, ss. 3, 4 and 6.] General certificate in local government management 4 The board may grant a general certificate in local government Management to a person who (a) has completed at least 4 years of employment by a Municipality, regional district or improvement district situated In british columbia as a department head or other responsible Position acceptable to the board, (b) has (i)  successfully completed the lgma intermediate education Program,
(ii)  successfully completed at least half the course program Of the institute of chartered secretaries and administrators Course of studies, (iii)  successfully completed at least half the course of Studies for the chartered accountants, certified general Accountants or registered industrial accountants programs, (iv)  a bachelor's degree from a canadian university Recognized as a degree granting institution by the government of The province in which it is situated, or (v)  successfully completed a course of studies that, in the Opinion of the board, is equivalent to one or more of the Qualifications referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iv), and (c) has completed the following lgma senior level education Program courses or their equivalent as accepted by the board:
Principles of administration; urban and regional economics; local Government law; local government policy.
[am. b.c. reg. 7/2001, ss. 3 and 4.] Advanced certificate in local government management 5 The board may grant an advanced certificate in local government Management to a person who (a) has been employed by a municipality, regional district or Improvement district in british columbia for at least 4 years, and Has served as the officer assigned the chief administrative Responsibility or as deputy to that officer for 2 of those 4 Years,
(b) has (i)  successfully completed the lgma intermediate education Program,
(ii)  successfully completed at least half the course program Of the institute of chartered secretaries and administrators Course of studies, (iii)  successfully completed at least half the course of Studies for the chartered accountants, certified general Accountants or registered industrial accountants programs, (iv)  a bachelor's degree from a canadian university Recognized as a degree granting institution by the government of The province in which it is situated, or (v)  successfully completed a course of studies that, in the Opinion of the board, is equivalent to one or more of the Qualifications referred to in subparagraphs (i) to (iv), (c) has completed the following lgma senior level education Program courses or their equivalent as accepted by the board:
Principles of administration; urban and regional economics; local Government law; local government policy, and (d) has completed, to the board's satisfaction, an oral and Written presentation to the board on a topic related to municipal Administration.
[am. b.c. reg. 7/2001, ss. 3, 4 and 7.] Presentation
6 (1)  where a person meets the requirements for a certificate Under sections 2 to 4, but the board believes the person's work Experience is nevertheless inadequate, the board may require the Person to complete an oral and written presentation to the board On a topic related to municipal administration.
(2)  where the board believes the presentation is inadequate, It may refuse to grant the certificate applied for.
Written reasons 7 Upon the request of the applicant, the board shall give written Reasons for its decision to require a presentation under section 6 (1) or its refusal to grant a certificate under section 6 (2).
Repealed
8 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 7/2001, s. 8.] [provisions of the Local government act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 206]