"point in time" regulation content Mineral tenure act Mineral act regulations B.c. reg. 587/77 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 529/2004, effective january 12, 2005.
B.c. reg. 587/77 O.c. 3818/77 Filed december 20, 1977 Mineral tenure act Mineral act regulations Part a - locating mineral claims Repealed
1-10 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 297/88.] Part b - acquiring crown granted 2 post claims that have Reverted to the crown Repealed
1-6 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 297/88.] Repealed
7 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 494/79.] Part c - exploration and development — assessment work General regulations 1 (1)  assessment report credit will not be allowed for work Done prior to location of claims. however, work done between the Location and recording of the claims may be applied to the first Year's assessment. in general, assessment credit will be allowed Only for work done on the claims. other technical work not Directly applicable to claims may be filed for portable assessment Credit under section 12 (1) (b).
(2)  all work submitted under these regulations must be Original studies and not compilations and interpretations of work Previously done. each report must be complete in its presentation, And not rely on references to previous history, location or Studies. previous work should be referenced in a standard Bibliographic format.
(3)  all work must comply with the relevant requirements of Sections 10 and 11 1 Of the Mines regulation act .
(4)  application for credit as assessment work, in the form Required by the minister, must be made by the anniversary date of The claim in the assessment year in which the work was done, or Within 30 days of the anniversary date, with payment of a penalty Fee.
(5)  application for credit as assessment work shall be made To the gold commissioner in vancouver or victoria or in the mining Division in which the claims are situated (a) by submitting, within the time limited in subsection (4), 2 copies of the required form with the relevant parts completed, And
(b) in a case where a report on the assessment work is Required, by submitting, within 90 days of the time limited by Subsection (4), one copy of the report for each mining division in Which the claims reported on are situated or partly situated, Together with one additional copy of the report.
(6)  rejection of submissions not conforming to these Regulations may cause forfeiture of the title to the mineral claim Or claims unless cash in lieu of work is deposited with the gold Commissioner before the anniversary date of the claim or claims.
(7)  reports submitted in conformity with this regulation Will have confidential status for a period of one year from the Date of submission of the affidavit on application to record work.
[am. b.c. regs. 35/85; 359/85.] Valuation of work 2 (1)  the value credited for assessment work shall be Determined by the chief gold commissioner upon consideration of The work as defined by the contents of the report and the costs Documented in an itemized cost statement included in the report.
Cost statements submitted only on the statement of exploration and Development will not be considered.
(2)  in a separate section clearly defined and tabulated in a Table of contents, the applicant shall submit, in support of the Claimed cost, an itemized cost statement setting forth (a) number of days, rates per day, specific date and total Wages
Paid every person employed, (b) number of days, rates per day, specific dates documenting Food and Accommodation
Charges for all persons employed during the investigation, (c) number of days, rates per day, specific dates and Specific information on costs incurred from all forms of Transportation
Required during the investigation; reasonable transportation costs To and from the claims being worked from points in british Columbia may also be accepted, (d) number of days, rates per day, specific dates and Specific information on costs incurred from all types of Instrument
Rental required during the investigation, (e) number of days, unit rates, specific dates, specific Information on all charges incurred by Surveys
Conducted during the investigation Examples:
August 16 to 20; 5 days; fluxgate magnetometer survey; 25 line Kilometres at $40/line kilometre — $1 000 total cost June 5; one day; 150 soil samples; $60/man/day — $60 total cost, (f) cost per unit, number of units, specific information and Total cost for all Analyses
Performed during and subsequent to the investigation Example:
150 soil samples — analysed for cu, pb, zn, ag; $3/sample — $450 Total cost, (g) reasonable cost of preparation of the report pertaining To the investigation, and (h) such other documented and itemized costs as may have been Incurred in carrying out the investigation.
(3)  receipts are not required, but in cases where Clarification is required, they may be specifically requested by The chief gold commissioner.
(4)  an explanation is required if any cost item Significantly exceeds current commercial rates, or if unusual Goods or services or employment of specially qualified personnel Are charged to the cost of the investigation.
(5)  where geological, geophysical, geochemical, drilling and Prospecting investigations or physical work are conducted on two Or more claims more or less simultaneously and the work on each Claim is the subject of a separate submission, a fair Apportionment of the cost is to be made.
(6)  costs not directly applicable to the actual assessment Work submitted are not allowable for assessment credit.
Content and form of report 3 (1)  the report must be typewritten on a good grade of white Paper of letter size Only
(8 1/2 by 11 inches or metric equivalent). it must be bound in a Durable binder and the binding margin must be wide enough to allow For complete visibility of all text on every page when the binder Is secured. text should be easily removable from the binders.
(2)  the report must conform to the following specific format Or it will be returned for corrective modification:
(a) the Title page Must show the following information:
General nature of the report, Specific claims involved, Mining division, Specific nts location, Latitude and longitude, Owner of claims, Operator (who paid to have the work done), Consultant (if applicable), Author(s) of report, Date submitted; (b) a Table of contents Identifying all sections by sequentially numbered pages, including Numbered appendices, maps, figures and other illustrations; (c) an Introduction
, which must include (i)  general geographic and physiographic position, access to The claims and index map, (ii)  property definition, containing history of the Property, current owner, operator, brief economic assessment of Property, etc., (iii)  a summary of work done as follows:
(a)  geochemical survey — the total number of soil, silt or Rock chip samples collected, separately listed; (b)  geophysical survey — the total number of kilometres of Line surveyed for each type of survey; (c)  drilling — the size and number of holes reported on and The total metres of drilling reported; (d)  geological survey — the scale of mapping and the total Area surveyed; (e)  topographic survey — the total area surveyed; (f)  prospecting — the total area prospected; (g)  linecutting or grid establishment — the total number of Kilometres of line cut or established, (iv)  a list of claims upon which work was actually performed Is required for each type of work. it is not required to list Individual units of modified grid claims; (d) Detailed technical data and interpretation , as determined by the investigation. purpose, results, Interpretation and conclusions must be included. each page of Text, drill logs, diagrams or any other writing connected with a Report must be numbered and cross indexed in the table of Contents. all aspects of this section must be clearly legible; (e) Itemized cost statement , as defined in section 2 (2) and documented as a separate section In the table of contents; (f) Author's qualifications Must be documented for all reports submitted under these Regulations.
Content and form of maps 4 (1)  the index map must accurately show the area investigated In relation to identifiable geographic features, at a standard Scale of 1:250 000 or more detailed where such base maps are Available, that is, 1:50 000. properly identified machine copies Or tracings of portions of ministry claim maps or published Topographic maps are recommended. the nts designation, for example 921/7w, should be marked on the index map.
(2)  each plan map showing results must be keyed to the index Map by showing on both maps sufficient common geographic features Such as lakes, streams, railways, roads, settlements, etc.
(3)  the area investigated, that is, the grid surveyed, Diamond drill holes, sample locations, areas mapped, etc., must be Shown in relation to boundaries or posts of the named mineral Claims either on the plan maps or on a separate claim map which Must be at a scale of 1:12 000 (1 inch = 1 000 feet) or more Detailed.
(4)  plan maps must be sufficiently detailed scale so as to Present the results of the investigation with neatness, clarity And accuracy of location.
(5)  coding must be by patterns or by numbers.
Coloured maps or diagrams are not acceptable .
(6)  map prints should be blackline.
(7)  each plan map and index map must show orientation with Respect to astronomic north.
(8)  each plan map and index map must show a bar scale.
(9)  sections, profiles and other diagrams must show Appropriate co-ordination scales.
(10)  each drawing and map must show an identifying title and Sufficient legend to be fully comprehensible. the title and legend Should be placed in the lower right corner.
(11)  the method used to establish claim post and boundary Locations should be indicated in the legend, for example, survey By b.c.l.s., pace and compass, air photo, topographic map, etc.
(12)  each drawing and map must be uniquely numbered and that Number entered in the table of contents opposite the map Description. the number on the map must be placed in the lower Right corner.
(13)  maps must measure not greater than 120 cm (48 inches) In one direction and 90 cm (36 inches) in the other.
(14)  drawings must be adequately attached to the report.
Page size drawings are most conveniently bound with the report in The binder. multi-folded drawings should be inserted in a pocket Which is fastened securely in the binder or contained with the Binder in an expanding file with cover flap.
Geological reports 5 (1)  geological reports must conform with sections 1 to 4.
(2)  geological mapping shall be done and the report thereon Prepared by (a) a professional geological or mining engineer registered By the association of professional engineers of the province of British columbia, or (b) a qualified person working under the direction of such Registered professional geological or mining engineer; provided That the report includes a statement of his qualifications and the Report is endorsed by the professional engineer over his Signature.
(3)  geological mapping and the report thereon, done by a Geologist, geological engineer or mining engineer not registered As in section 5 (2) may be acceptable at the discretion of the Ministry; provided that a statement of qualifications is included In the report and demonstrates that the author has documented Relevant training and experience.
(4)  the geological mapping must be suitably detailed and Comprehensive, and must contribute significantly to knowledge of The geology of the claims area and mine workings. accounts of Brief property examinations are therefore generally unacceptable.
Reports which are predominantly expressions of opinion or Compilations of published material, or those based on scanty data, Are not acceptable. resubmission of previously accepted documents Is not desired and can delay acceptance of reports.
(5)  the text must describe the lithology and structure of The rocks and any mineralization observed in them. wherever Identifiable, ore minerals, such as chalcopyrite, should be named And not merely reported as copper mineralization.
(6)  the report must include a geological map or maps which Show the location and outline of outcrops, the name of the rock Exposed, and significant geological structures and mineralization.
The map must have a legend which identifies the symbols used and The rock types. the units on the map must be coded with numbers or Patterns to conform with numbered or patterned map units in the Legend. coding by colour is not acceptable.
(7)  geological mapping of underground workings may be Acceptable, provided that:
(a) the outline of the workings and the geological Observations are shown on a plan or plans at a standard scale of 1:1 200 (1 inch = 100 feet) or more detailed. a standard scale of 1:500 (1 inch = approximately 40 feet) is recommended. generally Only one level should be shown on each plan; 2 or more levels can Be shown only if their data do not overlap. raises, stopes and Other non-horizontal workings should be shown in section. the Elevation of the workings must be given; (b) multiple workings are tied together with a co-ordinate System;
(c) a surface plan is included which adequately ties the Workings into identifiable surface features and the index map.
(8)  geological mapping of trenches that expose bedrock may Be acceptable providing that the outline of the trenches and the Detailed geological observations are shown on a plan or plans at a Standard scale of 1:1 200 (1 inch =100 feet) or more detailed. a Standard scale of 1:500 (1 inch = approximately 40 feet) is Recommended.
(9)  a photogeological interpretation may be credited in Partial fulfilment as assessment work, provided that it is an Adjunct to and is submitted with a ground geological, geophysical Or geochemical survey.
Geophysical reports 6 (1)  geophysical reports must conform with sections 1 to 4.
(2)  geophysical surveys shall be conducted in a systematic Manner by competent, adequately trained personnel, and reports Thereon prepared by (a) a professional geophysical engineer registered by the Association of professional engineers of the province of british Columbia, or (b) a qualified person working under the direction of a Registered professional geophysical, geological or mining Engineer; provided that the report includes a statement of his Qualifications and the report is endorsed by the professional Engineer over his signature. a statement of the qualifications of The personnel who actually conducted the survey is also required.
(3)  a geophysical report by a geophysicist or geophysical Engineer not registered as in section 6 (2) may be acceptable at The discretion of the ministry; provided that a statement of Qualifications is included in the report and demonstrates that the Author has documented relevant training and experience.
(4)  the method and procedure must be stated and the make and Model of geophysical instruments must be given so that the Characteristics of the instruments may be known from a catalogue Or similar source of information. if the method is new and not Described in readily available literature, the text must include a Statement of the underlying theory, a full description of Instrumentation, measurement and data reduction, and results from Test areas.
(5)  the units of measurement and the units in which the Results are presented must be clearly stated.
(6)  spurious results from a malfunctioning instrument are of No value and should be omitted. suspect results should be Identified by a suitable symbol or note.
(7)  the report must contain a drawing or drawings showing The numerical values obtained and their location. if the results Are presented in profile or pseudo profile form, a plan map is Required at a scale of 1:12 000 (1 inch = 1 000 feet) or more Detailed, showing the survey grid in relation to the claims and Such surface features as will correlate it with the index map.
(8)  an interpretation and evaluation of the results must be Submitted. information relevant to this interpretation (geology, Topography, etc.) must be included.
(9)  in a report on a magnetic survey, the map or profiles Should show whether the values represent the total intensity of The magnetic field or the vertical component, whether the values Are absolute or relative, and the units these values are recorded In. the text should state whether the values were corrected for Diurnal variation and the method used to achieve this. the values So corrected constitute basic data and should be submitted.
Results of any other mathematical treatments should be shown on Separate drawings.
(10)  in a report on an electromagnetic survey, the method And array should be clearly identified. the location of the Transmitter for a very low radio frequency (vlf) survey should be Stated.
(11)  filtered or smoothed data are acceptable only when Accompanied by the basic data.
(12)  in a report on an induced polarization survey, the Specific method and the electrode array used must be stated.
(13)  an airborne geophysical survey by appropriate Recognized methods may be credited for assessment work, subject to The foregoing conditions with the following modifications:
(a) the results should be presented in contour form on the Geophysical map rather than as numerical values. the geophysical Map must be at a standard scale of 1:50 000 (1 inch = 4 200 feet) Or more detailed; (b) the geophysical results and the flight lines must be Accurately located in relation to each other and the claims and Identifiable geographic features. terrain clearance must also be Stated;
(c) at his discretion, the chief gold commissioner may Accept, in addition to surveys made of the property, surveys Extending beyond the boundaries of the property, to include an Area containing up to 10 times the area of the mineral claims held By the applicant. thus for each claim unit of 25 hectares held, There may be credited an airborne geophysical survey of 250 Hectares, including the claim unit. surveys extending beyond the Limits outlined may be submitted for portable assessment credit Under section 12 (1) (b); (d) upon demand, at any time up to 3 years from the Anniversary date following approval of credit, the applicant must Submit to the chief gold commissioner records showing all Geophysical observations, including copies of all airborne Geophysical tapes or other records, a continuous record of Elevations above the ground, and data used to relate airborne Readings to ground positions.
Geochemical reports 7 (1)  geochemical reports must conform with sections 1 to 4.
(2)  geochemical sampling shall be conducted in a systematic Manner by competent, trained personnel, and reports thereon Prepared by (a) a professional geological or mining engineer registered By the association of professional engineers of the province of British columbia, or (b) a qualified person working under the direction of such Registered professional geological or mining engineer; provided That the report includes a statement of his qualifications and the Report is endorsed by the professional engineer over his Signature. a statement of the qualifications of the personnel who Actually conducted the survey is also required.
(3)  a geochemical report by a geologist, geochemist, Geological engineer or mining engineer not registered as in Section 7 (2) may be acceptable at the discretion of the ministry; Provided that a statement of qualifications is included in the Report and demonstrates that the author has documented relevant Training and experience.
(4)  the sampling procedure and the materials sampled must be Described. soil horizons must be identified and the sample depth Stated. sampled bedrock must be identified as to rock type. in a Biogeochemical survey the species and part of the plant sampled Must be identified.
(5)  the report must contain a drawing or drawings showing The numerical values obtained and their location. the results Should normally be shown in plan, but for isolated or widely Spaced sampling traverses they may be shown in profile form.
(6)  the drawing showing values must clearly identify each Value with its element and state the unit of measurement.
(7)  values for more than one element may be shown on a Single drawing only if it does not become cluttered.
(8)  if sampling was done in 2 or more separate periods, the Values should be distinguished by suitable symbols.
(9)  the report must contain the following information:
(a) the name of the analytical laboratory or chemist who did The analyses; (b) the mesh size fraction of the sample used for analysis; (c) the name and concentration of reagents used for Extracting from the sample each element tested for; (d) the chemical procedure for testing the samples must be Given and new methods of analysis not outlined in readily Available literature must be described in detail; (e) if the samples were tested in the field, the procedure Must be described; (f) in a biogeochemical report the ashing technique must be Described.
(10)  an interpretation and evaluation of the results must be Submitted. information relevant to this interpretation (geology, Soil types, topography, etc.) must be included.
(11)  reports on airborne geochemical surveys may be Acceptable; provided that (a) the procedure and sensing method are fully described; (b) results of control surveys over known ore and known Barren ground are given; (c) the results are given in an organized form; (d) the flight lines are shown in relation to identifiable Surface features; (e) the ground speed and clearance of the aircraft are Stated;
(f) the meteorological conditions are described, particularly Wind speed and direction, air temperature and humidity, and Percentage and thickness of cloud cover; (g) the vegetation is adequately described.
If not directly relatable to claims, this information may be Submitted for portable assessment credit under section 12 (1) (b).
Drilling reports 8 (1)  drilling reports must conform with sections 1 to 4. the Purpose of the drilling program and an interpretation of the Results containing stratigraphic/lithologic information must be Included.
(2)  each copy of a drilling report must contain the Following information:
(a) an itemized cost statement as per section 2 (2); (b) a surface or underground plan at a standard scale of 1:5 000 (1 inch = approximately 400 feet) or more detailed, showing The location of the drill hole collars in relation to claim unit Boundaries and identifiable surface features or underground Workings. this map must be keyed to an accurate index map (see Section 4 (1));
(c) the inclination and azimuth, dip tests, core diameter (for diamond drill holes) and collar elevation (where known) of Each drill hole; (d) for diamond drill holes clearly legible (preferably Typewritten) copies of drill core logs for all drilling submitted For credit. logs must be done and signed by a qualified person and A statement of his qualifications must be included with the Report. all minerals noted in core must be listed in the logs; (e) for diamond drill holes, the location of the core storage Must be stated; (f) for percussion drill holes, the depth of overburden and a Cuttings log or similar description of rock types and minerals Encountered;
(g) where geophysical logging has been conducted in drill Holes (for example, radiometric) these logs must be submitted.
(3)  where assays of core or cuttings are done, complete Assay results must be submitted along with the logs. results must Be clearly correlated with the logs.
(4)  reasonable costs of construction of core storage Facility shall be acceptable for assessment credit; provided that The requirements of section 8 (1), (2), and (3) are met.
(5)  short holes drilled for the purpose of blasting are Considered to be physical work and are not acceptable as drilling Under section 8.
Prospecting reports 9 (1)  prospecting reports must conform in all respects to the Format outlined in sections 1 to 4, that is, must contain title Page, table of contents, introduction, technical data and Interpretation, itemized cost statement, qualifications and proper Maps.
(2)  prospecting reports are acceptable only during the first 3 years of the holding of the claims concerned. only one Prospecting report may be submitted for credit by the same Owner/operator for the same ground.
(3)  the report must include a statement of qualifications of The person or persons who did the prospecting and wrote the Report.
(4)  the prospector must show documentation that he has Completed the ministry of energy, mines and petroleum resources Mineral exploration course for prospectors or an organized basic Prospecting course acceptable to this ministry.
(5)  a prospecting report, submitted by a prospector without The credentials requested in section 9 (4), may be acceptable; Provided that a statement of qualifications is included in the Report and demonstrates that the author has relevant training and Experience. authors may be required to take a basic prospecting Examination before a report may be accepted.
(6)  reports and maps must be submitted in duplicate (see Also section 1 (5)) and must be bound in durable binders of Standard letter size.
(7)  a typewritten description of observations made during The investigation must be submitted. the description must be Signed by the prospector who performed the work.
(8)  an index map, as described in section 4 (1), must be Submitted.
(9)  an accurate map or maps, at a standard scale of 1:5 000 (1 inch = approximately 400 feet) or more detailed, must be Submitted showing bar scale and true north arrow; location of Claim posts and boundaries relative to identifiable geographic Features, that is, named streams, lakes, roads, settlements, Bridges, railroads, etc.; location of traverses; location of all Instrument readings with the corresponding values obtained; Location of all samples with the corresponding assay results, and Location and geological description of each outcrop or area of Boulders investigated.
(10)  an itemized cost statement must be submitted and must Conform in all respects with the details outlined in section 2 (2).
Related technical reports 10 (1)  sampling, assaying, petrographic and mineralogical Examinations and metallurgical investigations that are not a Direct adjunct to and included with surveys outlined in sections 5 To 9 may be acceptable as assessment credit; provided that the Following criteria are met:
(a) each sample is uniquely identified, by number, letter or Grid designation; (b) accurate locations of the samples are given both in Detailed descriptions and maps, including surface exposures, drill Holes, trenches or underground workings; (c) all technical aspects of the sampling techniques are Documented;
(d) all results and their interpretation must be included in The report; (e) the report must conform in all respects to the format Outlined in sections 1 to 4.
(2)  technical reports of this nature not directly related to Claims may be submitted for portable assessment credit under Section 12 (1) (b).
Preparatory surveys 11 (1)  ground control surveys, linecutting or grid Establishment, topographic and/or photogrammetric mapping done in Preparation for a geological, geophysical, geochemical survey or Drilling may be credited as technical assessment work when Submitted as part of such a report. costs of these preparatory Studies must be clearly specified in the itemized cost statement.
Such preparatory surveys may be submitted separately as physical Work in accordance with section 13 of these regulations.
(2)  for a control survey, an accurate traverse map must be Submitted, the survey method must be stated or described, and the Procedure shown or described by which the survey was tied to an Accurately located reference point related to claim boundaries.
(3)  for linecutting, the specifications must be stated, and The lines shown on a map in relation to the claims and to Identifiable geographic features which will relate it to an index Map. new grid must be clearly distinguished from any pre-existing Grid. a geological, geophysical or geochemical map showing the Grid, claims and geographic features will serve as a grid map.
(4)  for topographic or photogrammetric mapping, the map must Be submitted and the names of the firm or individuals who prepared It shown. claim boundaries and survey grids should be superimposed On the topographic map. all maps are subject to the requirements Outlined in section 4.
Portable assessment credit (pac) accounts 12 (1) Pac deposits (a) Assessment reports — upon approval of technical reports submitted pursuant to these Regulations, the Value of work requested Will be applied to the claims as designated on the statement of Exploration and development. approved Value in excess of that requested To be applied to the claims will be credited in a pac account to Registered owners and/or operators as designated on the statement Of exploration and development, on approval of the chief gold Commissioner.
(b) Other reports — information from any technical exploration work begun in british Columbia after april 30, 1977, and Not submitted under section (12) (1) (a) May be submitted in accordance with the assessment report format Outlined in sections 1 to 4, for pac consideration. the Total
Value of such reports approved by resource data staff will be Credited to the submitter's pac account. reports must document Work performed within 3 years of the time of submission for pac Consideration.
All reports in this category should be submitted directly to the Resource data section, geological division, mineral resources Branch.
(c) Deposits from claims — in the case of an expropriation of a claim located on land over Which a park is created subsequent to the location of the claim, The chief gold commissioner may, as part of the compensation Settlement, authorize the deposit to the title holder's pac Account of the value of all or a portion of the recorded technical Work credits applied to the expropriated claim.
(2) Pac withdrawals — assessment work credit (a) if desired by the owner or operator, pac credits may be Used for assessment work credit on the following basis. upon Submission of an assessment report, up to 30% of the value of the Assessment work approved on the statement of exploration and Development may be taken from the owner's or operator's pac Account and added to the work value to make up the total value of Work requested to be applied to the claims (approved to the Nearest $100).
(b) when this procedure is chosen by the owner or operator, Recording fees must be paid on the total value requested to be Applied to the claims at the time of recording the statement of Exploration and development.
Example 1:
$ Total value of assessment work done (and approved) ............
22 500 Pac account transferral Request*..............................................
6 750 Total
..................................................................................
29 250 * maximum 30% of $22 500 Value to be applied as per application ......................................
29 200 (recording fees payable at time of application ...........................
1 460) (excess value returned to owner's pac account ....................
50) Example 2:
(work on 4 units, maximum allowable value under the Mineral act 2 Is 4 x $200 x 10 years = $8 000.) $ Total value of assessment work done (and approved) .............
7 000 Pac account transferral request ............................................
1 000 Value to be applied as per application .....................................
8 000 (recording fees payable at time for application .........................
400) (in this case, addition of the maximum 30% pac allowance Of $2 100 would exceed 10 year limit.) (3) Pac withdrawals — recording fee refunds (a) upon submission of original mining receipts, and a refund Application signed by the pac account depositor, fees paid for the Recording of assessment work may be refunded to the free miner Named on the receipt on the basis of a deduction of $100 from the Owner's or operator's pac account for every $5 recording fee Refund.
(b) such requests must be submitted annually, during the Month of may, to the resource data section, geological division, Mineral resources branch. refunds will be considered for all fees Paid for recording work beginning january 1, 1978. refund Submissions must apply to mining receipts dated in the previous Calendar year only. the first annual submissions from owners would Be in may 1979.
(4) Pac withdrawals — extension of 10 year limit In the case where there has been a minimum of 10 years work Recorded on a claim, and no further work has been done to extend Title within 60 days prior to forfeiture, the owner may, upon Application and submission of recording fees, use his pac deposit On the basis of $200 per 2 post claim per year or $200 per unit Per year, to hold that identical claim up to a maximum additional 5 years. only one such extension of this nature can be applied For.
(5) General
(a) pac depositors will be notified by letter to their last Known address whenever additions or subtractions are made to their Pac accounts.
(b) with respect to assessment reports (12 (1) (a)), pac Credits will be entered in the name of the registered owner(s) And/or operator(s) (company(ies) paying for the work) designated On the statement of exploration and development.
(c) with respect to other reports (12 (1) (b)), pac credits Will be entered in the name of the company or individual Submitting the report.
(d) the resource data section reserves the right to reject Reports that are considered to be essentially a duplication of Previously submitted information, regardless of authorship.
(e) physical work and prospecting reports are not acceptable For portable assessment credit.
(6) Pac withdrawals — assessment work credit as compensation In the case of an expropriation of a claim on land over which a Park is created subsequent to the location of the claim, the chief Gold commissioner may, as part of the compensation settlement, Authorize an assessment credit from the title holder's pac account To be applied to one or more claims held by the recorded title Holder under the requirements in section 29 of the act. credit Must be applied to the claim in accordance with the values Specified in section 19 (1) and (2) of b.c. reg. 297/88, the Mineral tenure act Regulation, and for a number of years determined by the chief gold Commissioner not exceeding the maximum specified in section 19 (2.2) of b.c. reg. 297/88. no recording fees under section 29 of The act are payable for this assessment.
[am. b.c. regs. 153/81, s. 2; 157/99, sch. 2.] Physical work 13 (1)  physical work such as trenches, open cuts, adits, pits, Shafts, reclamation and construction of roads and trails may be Acceptable for assessment work subject to the following Conditions:
(a) an accurate map must be submitted showing the location of Physical work relative to the legal corner post of a mineral claim Or relative to the boundaries of a 2 post claim and some clearly Recognizable topographic feature nearby; (b) metric dimensions of all workings, trenches, open cuts, Adits, pits and shafts must be provided; (c) length and width of a road, in metric measure, together With details of its construction, must be stated and accompanied By a sketch on the best topographic map available for the area, Showing the road in relation to the claim units to which the work Is to be applied; (d) improvements to existing roads must be described and full Details of construction provided; (e) metric dimensions of an airstrip or heliport must be Stated and a sketch submitted, on the best topographic map Available for the area, showing the relationship of the airstrip Or heliport to the claim units to which the work is to be applied; (f) reasonable travel and supply expenses are allowable but Must be supported by a detailed cost statement (see section 2 (2) For pertinent costs).
(2)  ground control surveys, linecutting or grid Establishment, topographic and/or photogrammetric mapping done in Preparation for a geological, geophysical, geochemical survey or Drilling may be submitted separately as physical work and credited For assessment work subject to section 11 (2), (3) and (4) of These regulations.
(3)  where the holder of a mineral claim or 2 post claim has Had it surveyed, if he or his agent files in the office of the Gold commissioner a statement that he has had the mineral claim or 2 post claim surveyed by a provincial land surveyor in accordance With the provisions of the act, the holder is entitled to have the Cost of the survey counted and recorded as exploration and Development done on the mineral claim under section 22 as follows:
(a) for a full mineral claim survey, an amount not to exceed $600 for each unit included in the mineral claim; (b) for establishing the position of a legal corner post, an Amount not to exceed $1 000; (c) for a full 2 post claim survey, an amount not to exceed $1 600; (d) for a perimeter survey of 2 post claims, an amount not to Exceed $600 for each 2 post claim included within the perimeter.
(4)  the recorded owner of a mineral claim, at any time, upon Request by an official of the ministry of energy, mines and Petroleum resources, is responsible to show on the ground where Work has been performed.
Part d - conversion of lease to mining lease Repealed
1-2 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 297/88.] Part e - table of fees Repealed. [b.c. reg. 297/88.] Part f - filing of appeal disposition Repealed. [b.c. reg. 297/88.] 1.
Sections 10 and 11 of the Mines regulation act , s.b.c. 1967-25, as amended by 1969-18-2, were revised in R.s.b.c. 1979-265 as sections 9 and 10 of the Mining regulation act . this act was replaced by the Mines act , s.b.c. 1980-28, in which the equivalent provisions were Sections 6 to 11. this was in turn replaced by the Mines act , s.b.c. 1989-56, which was revised as r.s.b.c. 1996-293.
2.
See now Mineral tenure act .
[provisions of the Mineral tenure act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 292, relevant to the enactment of these Regulations: section 65]