"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Hotel Room Tax Act; Provincial Sales Tax Act
Additional Tax Regulation (City of Prince Rupert)
B.C. Reg. 403/90
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 215/2013, effective December 1,
2013.
B.C. Reg. 403/90
O.C. 1600/90
Deposited October 19, 1990
effective November 1, 1990
Hotel Room Tax Act; Provincial Sales Tax Act
Additional Tax Regulation (City of Prince Rupert)
Applicability
1
Section 3 (1) of the
Hotel Room Tax Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 207, applies in respect of accommodation
purchased within the City of Prince Rupert.
Additional tax payable
2
The additional tax payable under that section is 2% of the
purchase price of the accommodation.
Purpose for tax expenditure
3
The purposes, for which the amount paid to the municipality out of
the revenue collected from the tax may be expended, are set out in
the attached schedule.
Schedule
Purposes for which Funds May Be Expended
The City of Prince Rupert Marketing Strategy
1
Promotional Events:
(a) development of a trade/consumer show participation
campaign, including annual updates to the promotion booth;
(b) development and production of a 1991 Travel Showcase
promotional campaign;
(c) participation at sport shows.
2
Advertising:
(a) continuation of the marketing campaign with
Alaska-Milepost Magazine
, advertising in
Super Camping BC
, participation in the
North by Northwest Circle Tour Brochure
, and other tourism promotion advertising campaigns;
(b) participation in the direct mail campaign to
international booking agents;
(c) development and production of a promotional print media
campaign for festivals, events and attractions in the Prince
Rupert area;
(d) participation in various fishing and hunting guides and
regulation publications;
(e) development, with North by Northwest Tourism Association,
of an advertising campaign directed at vehicle tourism.
3
Other Marketing:
(a) development of a marketing strategy to increase cruise
ship tourism to Prince Rupert;
(b) development and facilitation of destination adventure and
sport fishing marketing campaign;
(c) development of a joint "North to Alaska" marketing
campaign and road-show with the Southeast Alaska Tourism
Association;
(d) development of a marketing campaign directed at the Queen
Charlotte Islands, and participation with the tourism promotion
aspects of the Queen Charlotte Islands Economic Development
Initiative;
(e) development of a Yellowhead Highway marketing campaign,
jointly with other organizations;
(f) development of a local public awareness campaign
emphasizing the value of tourism as a major economic generator
within the city.
*.
See section 45 of the
Provincial Sales Tax Transitional Provisions and Amendments
Act
, 2013, S.B.C. 2013, c. 1
[Provisions of the
Hotel Room Tax Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 207, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 43 (2) (e)]
