"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Health Professions Act
Opticians Regulation
B.C. Reg. 487/94
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.
B.C. Reg. 487/94
O.C. 1565/94
Deposited December 16, 1994
effective December 16, 1994; sections 1, 2, 4, 6 and 7,
effective July 1, 1996; sections 3 and 5
Health Professions Act
Opticians Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"contact lens fitter"
means an optician who is authorized under the bylaws to fill a
prescription and to fit and dispense contact lenses;
"eyeglasses"
does not include contact lenses or low vision aids;
"optician"
means a registrant who is authorized to dispense eyeglasses;
"optometrist"
means a person authorized to practise optometry under the
Optometrists Act
;
"prescriber"
means
(a) an optometrist, or
(b) a qualified medical practitioner
who prepares a prescription;
"prescription"
means the written record, prepared by a prescriber, of
(a) the power of a lens to correct the refractive error of an
eye, and
(b) reading add, prisms, back vertex distance and
contraindications;
"qualified medical practitioner"
means a person, authorized to practise medicine under the
Medical Practitioners Act
, who is permitted to provide vision care services;
"supervision"
means, if supervision is not governed in accordance with the
Optometrists Act
or the
Medical Practitioners Act
,
(a) in relation to the services described in section 5 (1),
that a prescriber or optician supervises at reasonable intervals
and provides regular inspection of the services performed by a
non-registrant, and
(b) in relation to the services described in section 5 (3),
that
(i)  a prescriber or contact lens fitter is normally on the
premises, although he or she may be absent from time to time, not
including holidays,
(ii)  a prescriber supervises the fitting or dispensing of
contact lenses by a person other than a prescriber or contact lens
fitter, and
(iii)  a contact lens fitter supervises the refilling of a
prescription if contact lenses are dispensed by a person other
than a contact lens fitter.
[en. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 1.]
Designation
2
(1)  Opticianry is designated as a health profession.
(2)  The "College of Opticians of British Columbia" is the
name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Act
for opticianry.
[am. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 2.]
Reserved titles
3
(1)  No person other than an optician may use the title
"optician" or "dispensing optician".
(2)  No person other than a contact lens fitter may use the
title "contact lens fitter".
[am. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 3.]
Scope of practice
4
(1)  An optician may fill a prescription for eyeglasses by
dispensing eyeglasses including the fitting, adjustment and
adaptation required by the client.
(2)  An optician may duplicate eyeglass lenses without a
prescription.
(3)  A contact lens fitter may fill a prescription by fitting
and dispensing contact lenses.
[am. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 4.]
Reserved acts
5
(1)  Subject to section 14 of the Act, no person other than
an optician may
(a) fill a prescription by dispensing eyeglasses, or
(b) duplicate eyeglass lenses without a prescription.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a person acting under
the supervision of an optician or a prescriber provided that the
measurements necessary for the manufacture of the eyeglasses or
eyeglass lenses and the power described in the prescription are
verified by the optician or prescriber at or before the time of
final dispensing of the eyeglasses or eyeglass lenses.
(3)  Subject to section 14 of the Act, no person other than a
contact lens fitter may fill a prescription by fitting and
dispensing contact lenses.
(4)  Subsection (3) does not apply to a person
(a) filling a prescription by fitting and dispensing contact
lenses under supervision,
(b) filling a prescription by fitting and dispensing contact
lenses under supervision provided that
(i)  the person is registered in accordance with the bylaws
as a student contact lens fitter, and
(ii)  the contact lens fitter is immediately present at all
times, or
(c) refilling a prescription by dispensing contact lenses
under the supervision of a contact lens fitter or a prescriber
provided that person does not fit the contact lenses.
[en. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 5.]
Limitations on practice
6
(1)  No registrant may conduct eye examinations or
refractions.
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to the examination
required for the proper fitting of eyeglasses and contact lenses.
(3)  No registrant may alter a prescription without the
express prior authorization of the prescriber.
(4)  Subsection (3) does not apply to the vertex alteration
required to fill a prescription using conversion charts or similar
formulae.
(5)  A registrant must offer to the client, without charge, a
copy of a prescription.
[am. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 6.]
Patient relations program
7
The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f)
of the Act.
[am. B.C. Reg. 8/2002, s. 7.]
[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 12]
