"point in time" regulation content Health professions act Naturopathic physicians regulation B.c. reg. 449/99 Regulation before repealed by bc reg 270/2008, effective october 17, 2008.
B.c. reg. 449/99 O.c. 1774/99 Deposited december 17, 1999 Effective january 1, 2000 Health professions act Naturopathic physicians regulation Definitions
1 In this regulation:
"act" Means the Health professions act ; "naturopathic medicine" Means the art of healing by natural methods or therapeutics, Including the first aid treatment of minor cuts, abrasions and Contusions, bandaging, taking of blood samples, and the Prescribing or administering of authorized preparations and Medicines.
Designation
2 (1)  naturopathic medicine is designated as a health Profession.
(2)  the "college of naturopathic physicians of british Columbia" is the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the act for naturopathic medicine.
Reserved titles 3 (1)  no person other than a registrant may use the title "naturopath", "naturopathic physician", "drugless physician", "sanipractic physician" or "drugless healer".
(2)  a registrant may use the title "doctor" or the Abbreviation "dr." but only as "doctor of naturopathic medicine", "dr. of naturopathic medicine", "naturopathic doctor" or "naturopathic dr.".
(3)  a naturopathic physician must not use the titles "doctor" or "physician" in such a way as to suggest an occupation Relating to the treatment of human ailments, other than as Permitted under this regulation.
Scope of practice 4 A registrant may practise naturopathic medicine.
Reserved acts 5 Subject to section 14 of the act, no person other than a Registrant may practise naturopathic medicine.
Limitations on practice 6 No registrant may (a) prescribe or administer drugs for internal or external Use other than the preparations and medicines specified in bylaws Made by the board and approved by the lieutenant governor in Council,
(b) use or administer anaesthetics for any purpose, or (c) practise surgery.
Patient relations program 7 The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) Of the act.
Health profession corporations 8 Part 4 of the act applies to naturopathic medicine.
[en. b.c. reg. 227/2006.] [provisions of the Health professions act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: sections 12 and 50]