"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Utilities Commission Act
Special Direction No. 9 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission
B.C. Reg. 157/2005
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Section 1
February 3, 2011
Section 2.1
February 3, 2011
February 14, 2019
Section 3 to 6
February 3, 2011
Section 1 BEFORE re-enacted by BC Reg 23/2011, effective February 3,
2011.
Definitions
1
In this Special Directive:
"Act"
means the
Utilities Commission Act
;
"debt"
means the amount obtained by adding revolving borrowings, bonds,
notes and debentures, and deducting from that sum the total of
related sinking funds, temporary investments and repurchased debt;
"deemed equity"
means, for any period, the product obtained by multiplying the
deemed equity component by the sum of the forecast debt and the
forecast equity relating to that period;
"deemed equity component"
means, for the transmission corporation's financial year
commencing April 1, 2005, and for all subsequent financial years,
40.7%;
"designated agreements"
means the agreements designated by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council under section 3 (1) of the
Transmission Corporation Act
;
"equity"
means the sum of share capital, contributed surplus and retained
earnings;
"forecast debt"
, in relation to the transmission corporation, means, for a period
made up of one or more years, the average of the amounts that are
forecast to represent the average of the transmission
corporation's debt in each of the months of that period;
"forecast equity"
, in relation to the transmission corporation, means, for a period
made up of one or more years, the average of the amounts that are
forecast to represent the average of the transmission
corporation's equity in each of the months of that period;
"Master Agreement"
means the Master Agreement between the authority and the
transmission corporation dated as of November 12, 2003;
"transmission corporation"
means British Columbia Transmission Corporation;
"transmission service"
means service provided in relation to the transmission system as
that term is defined in the
Transmission Corporation Act
.
[am B.C. Reg. 313/2005.]
Section 2.1 was enacted by BC Reg 23/2011, effective February 3,
2011.
Section 2.1 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 24/2019, effective February
14, 2019.
Government objective
2.1
(1)
In deciding whether to issue to a public utility other than the
authority a certificate in respect of an electricity transmission
project under section 46 (3) of the Act, the commission must
consider, in addition to the matters referred to in section 46
(3.1) of the Act, the government's objective of encouraging public
utilities to develop adequate electricity transmission
infrastructure in the time required to serve persons who receive
or may receive service from the public utility.
(2)
In deciding whether to issue to the authority a certificate in
respect of an electricity transmission project under section 46
(3) of the Act, the commission must consider and be guided by, in
addition to the matters referred to in section 46 (3.3) of the
Act, the government's objective referred to in subsection (1) of
this section.
[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2011, s. 2.]
Sections 3 to 6 BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 23/2011, effective
February 3, 2011.
Basis for establishing transmission corporation revenue
requirements
3
In regulating and fixing rates for the transmission corporation,
the commission must ensure that those rates allow the transmission
corporation to collect sufficient revenue in each financial year
to
(a) enable the transmission corporation to provide reliable
transmission service,
(b) enable the transmission corporation to meet all of the
transmission corporation's debt service, tax and other financial
obligations, and
(c) generate for the transmission corporation an annual rate
of return on deemed equity that is equal to the annual rate of
return that is allowed by the commission on the authority's equity
as that term is defined in Special Direction HC2.
New transmission system capital investment
4
In the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 45 (1) and (6.2)
of the Act as that jurisdiction relates to applications brought,
or capital plans filed, by the transmission corporation, including
any applications or capital plans for which the transmission
corporation is responsible for obtaining commission approval under
paragraph 4.12 (a) of the Master Agreement, the commission may
(a) consider and take into account
(i)  the anticipated demand for electricity and electricity
service, including transmission service, over a period considered
by the commission to be reasonable, including the increase in that
demand that may be created by, or attributable to, the
construction and operation of proposed transmission equipment or a
proposed transmission facility, and
(ii)  the benefits, including the benefits related to
enhanced access to, and expansion of, electricity markets, that
the commission considers are reasonably likely to result from any
proposed expenditures for any one or more of
(A)  studies in respect of,
(B)  design of,
(C)  planning the acquisition or construction of,
(D)  construction of, and
(E)  operation of
the proposed transmission equipment or facilities, and
(b) determine that expenditures referred to in paragraph (a)
(ii) that are justified on the basis of the future benefits to be
derived from the proposed equipment or facilities may be recovered
in current rates.
Intervention by the transmission corporation or the authority in
applications
5
Without limiting the Act, when regulating the transmission
corporation and the authority, the commission must allow the
transmission corporation and the authority to participate in
proceedings of the commission in the manner and to the extent
provided in the designated agreements including, without
limitation, to participate in hearings respecting any or all of
the following:
(a) an application for a certificate of public convenience
and necessity filed under section 45 (1) of the Act;
(b) a plan filed under section 45 (6.1) of the Act;
(c) a rate schedule, or amended rate schedule, filed under
section 61 of the Act.
Deferral accounts
6
When regulating the transmission corporation, the commission
(a) must allow the transmission corporation to establish the
deferral account or accounts contemplated by paragraph 4.13 (f) of
the Master Agreement,
(b) may allow the transmission corporation to establish one
or more other deferral accounts for other purposes, and
(c) must fix or regulate the transmission corporation's rates
in such a way as to allow the deferral account or accounts to be
cleared from time to time and within a reasonable period of time.
