"point in time" regulation content Credit union incorporation act Credit union directors election regulation B.c. reg. 308/90 Note:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the Changes made on the effective date. (pit covers changes made From september 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the Regulation.)
Section
Effective date Section 2
March 30, 2022
Section 3
March 30, 2022
Section 2 (3), (4), (5) and (6) before amended by bc reg 76/2022, Effective march 30, 2022.
(3) After
(a) All nominations of the nominating committee, or (b) Nominations made by such other procedure as the rules of the credit Union permit Have been placed before the meeting, the chairman of the meeting Shall call for nominations, if none have been placed before the Meeting, or for further nominations, as the case may be, from the Floor, and when the chairman has called 3 times for nominations or Further nominations or on motion duly adopted closing nominations, Nominations shall be closed.
(4) After the close of nominations an election by secret ballot shall be Held to fill the vacancies in the offices for which the election is Being held or to appoint successors to those persons in office whose Term of office has expired or will expire at the close of the Meeting or on the election or appointment of their successors, or Both; provided always that if the number of qualified persons Nominated for the office is equal to or less than the number Required to be elected or appointed at that time, those members Shall be deemed to have been duly elected or appointed to hold that Office pursuant to the rules of the credit union without the Necessity of holding an election, on the declaration of the chairman Of the meeting to that effect.
(5) The conduct of an election by secret ballot, if any is required, Unless the rules of the credit union otherwise provide, shall be in Accordance with the directions of the chairman of the meeting, Unless before the taking of the ballot such procedure is challenged, In which event the procedure to be followed at the general meeting In the taking of the ballot, unless the chairman is sustained by Majority vote, shall be determined by a majority vote of those Members present.
(6) In the event of a tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have a Second or deciding vote.
Section 3 (8) before amended by bc reg 76/2022, effective march 30, 2022.
(8) In the event of a tie, the chairman of the nominating committee Shall cast a deciding vote.