"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Motor Dealer Act
Motor Dealer Leasing Regulation
B.C. Reg. 391/94
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 124/2006, effective July 1,
2006.
B.C. Reg. 391/94
O.C. 1331/94
Deposited October 28, 1994
ss. 1, 2 (1) & 3 eff. Oct. 28/94;
ss. 2 (2), 4 & 5 eff. Dec. 31/94
Motor Dealer Act
Motor Dealer Leasing Regulation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Motor Dealer Act
;
"actual fair market value"
means the value of a similarly equipped motor vehicle of the same
make, model and year that has been subjected to normal wear and
use, as determined by an independent appraisal or as offered
elsewhere in the marketplace to a member of the general public by
a person registered under the
Motor Dealer Act
;
"consumer"
means an individual who leases or agrees to lease a motor vehicle
from a leasing company primarily for personal, family or household
purposes;
"lease contract"
means a lease or an agreement to lease where a consumer is
acquiring a motor vehicle that is being leased primarily for
personal, family or household purposes;
"leasing company"
means a motor dealer that leases or agrees to lease a motor
vehicle to a consumer or to whom a lease contract is assigned.
Disclosure and form of lease contract
2
(1)  Every motor dealer must, in relation to a lease
transaction, disclose the following information to the consumer:
(a) a complete description and identification of the motor
vehicle to be leased;
(b) the retail selling price of the motor vehicle;
(c) the price on which the lease payments are based;
(d) the annualized lease rate or interest rate;
(e) a summary of costs and credits due upon signing
including, as applicable, the following:
(i)  the cash down payment or capital cost reduction;
(ii)  the trade-in allowance;
(iii)  the security deposit;
(iv)  all registration and licensing fees;
(v)  all taxes and levies due upon signing;
(vi)  all advance payments required;
(vii)  administration or any other fees;
(viii)  extended warranty;
(f) the number, amount and due dates or periods of payment
under the lease including the following:
(i)  the lease payment for each period in the term;
(ii)  all taxes on each periodic payment;
(iii)  all other components of each periodic payment;
(iv)  the total amount of each periodic payment;
(v)  the total amount of all periodic payments;
(g) all liabilities at the end of the lease including, if
applicable, the following:
(i)  the termination liability or residual value at the end
of the lease for which the consumer is liable, clearly
differentiated from the termination buy out option price which
applies at the consumer's discretion;
(ii)  administration fees or any other fees at the end of the
lease;
(h) a description of all costs for which the consumer may be
liable at the end of the lease including the following:
(i)  any requirement to pay the cost of returning the motor
vehicle to as good condition as when the consumer first received
it, normal wear and use excepted;
(ii)  excess kilometre charges;
(iii)  late payment penalties;
(i) the total cost of the lease transaction upon completion,
including all items listed in paragraphs (e) (i) to (vii), (f) (v)
and (g), but stipulating clearly that it excludes contingencies
listed in paragraph (h);
(j) if there is an option to purchase,
(i)  the total transaction costs (excluding contingencies) if
the consumer elects to purchase the motor vehicle, and
(ii)  the total transaction costs (excluding contingencies)
if the consumer elects not to purchase the motor vehicle;
(k) if applicable, a statement of the consumer's buy out
options during or at the end of the lease term, and at what price
and time;
(l) a statement identifying all express warranties and
guarantees made by the manufacturer or leasing company with
respect to the leased motor vehicle;
(m) a statement that the motor vehicle is eligible for the
implied warranties under the
Sale of Goods Act
;
(n) a statement of responsibility for the maintenance and
servicing of the leased motor vehicle;
(o) a description of insurance provided or paid for by the
leasing company, or required to be provided and paid for by the
consumer, including types and amounts of coverage;
(p) a description of any limitations on the consumer's use
and enjoyment of the leased motor vehicle including any
restriction respecting authorized drivers or requirements for
permission to take the motor vehicle outside of British Columbia;
(q) if applicable, a statement of early termination
penalties, which must be described as such on the lease contract,
describing the conditions under which the consumer may terminate
the lease before the end of the term, and the amount or method of
determining a penalty or other charges due upon such termination;
(r) a statement of the grounds for early termination of the
lease by the leasing company;
(s) a statement of the leasing company policy indicating if
early termination by the consumer is allowed, and if allowed the
statement for early termination by the consumer must include the
following:
(i)  the amount or method of determining a penalty or other
charges due by the consumer upon such termination;
(ii)  the penalty or other charge for delinquency, default,
late payments or any other breach of the lease contract.
(2)  Every motor dealer must ensure that the information
required by subsection (1) is included in each lease contract that
the motor dealer enters into with a consumer.
Deemed provisions in a lease contract
3
The following provisions are deemed to be included in every lease
contract:
(a) if the consumer's liability at the end of the lease is
based, at least in part, on the estimated residual value of the
motor vehicle, such estimated value must be a reasonable
approximation of the anticipated actual fair market value of the
motor vehicle at the end of the lease;
(b) there is a "cooling off" period of one clear day in which
the motor vehicle is to remain in the possession of the leasing
company. During this period, the consumer may cancel the lease
contract, in which case the leasing company is required to
reimburse to the consumer any deposit or other money paid to the
leasing company in respect of the lease contract. In addition, the
consumer is not liable to pay any charge, fee or penalty for
canceling the lease contract and the period cannot be waived by
the consumer;
(c) the consumer's liability as a result of any discrepancy
between the estimated residual value and the actual fair market
value of a motor vehicle, subject to normal wear and use, at the
end of the lease is limited to a maximum allowable liability equal
to the sum of 3 average monthly payments under the lease;
(d) every warranty and guarantee made by the manufacturer
with respect to a leased motor vehicle and the equipment on the
leased motor vehicle is assigned and conveyed to the consumer.
Use of plain language in the contract
4
(1)  Every lease contract must be written in plain language,
in not less than 8 point type, and in a manner which is easily
understood by a reasonable person.
(2)  A lease contract must not use more than twice the terms
"lessee", "lessor" or "assignee".
(3)  All other references to the parties must be to
"consumer", "dealer" or "leasing company", or identify the parties
by name, or use the terms "you" and "we" as appropriate.
Consumer notice
5
The following consumer notice must be printed in bold 12 point
type face on the front of every lease contract form:
NOTICE: It is an offence under the British Columbia
Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act
to misrepresent the terms of a motor vehicle lease as being a
price benefit or advantage over direct purchase of the vehicle
with conventional financing if such is not the case.
[am. B.C. Reg. 274/2004, Sch. 3, s. 9.]
[Provisions of the
Motor Dealer Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 316, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 38]
