"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Residential Tenancy Act
Manufactured Home Pad Rent Increase Regulation
B.C. Reg. 264/98
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 477/2003, effective January 1,
2004.
B.C. Reg. 264/98
O.C. 1099/98
Deposited July 31, 1998
effective August 15, 1998
Residential Tenancy Act
Manufactured Home Pad Rent Increase Regulation
Part 1 - Definitions and Application
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"home owner"
means a tenant of a manufactured home pad;
"pad"
means a manufactured home pad;
"park"
means a location at which a landlord rents or offers to rent one
or more manufactured home pads;
"park owner"
means the landlord of a manufactured home park;
"subcommittee"
means a subcommittee appointed under section 69 of the Act by the
chair of the dispute resolution committee.
Application
2
(1)  This regulation applies to disputes respecting notices
of rent increase for manufactured home pads.
(2)  This regulation does not apply if the tenant rents a
manufactured home and the manufactured home pad under a single
tenancy agreement.
(3)  A subcommittee or an arbitrator must apply this
regulation when determining the justifiable rent increase to be
recommended or ordered to resolve a dispute.
Calculation of justifiable rent increase
3
The justifiable rent increase is determined by calculating
(a) a basic rent increase which takes into account the park's
income, operating costs and capital expenditures, and
(b) any adjustments to the basic rent increase on the basis
of other relevant factors, if appropriate.
Minimum and maximum rent increase
4
(1)  The justifiable rent increase for each year for which it
is calculated may not be less than zero and may not result in a
rent exceeding the new rent indicated on the notice of rent
increase.
(2)  The justifiable rent is the lesser of
(a) the base rent plus the justifiable rent increase
determined according to the method in this regulation, and
(b) the new rent indicated on the notice of rent increase.
Part 2 - Information Required from Park Owner
Park owner to provide information before mediation meeting
5
The park owner must complete the statement of rent increase
information form and give a copy to the home owner applicant and
to the dispute resolution committee at least 7 days before the
mediation meeting.
Park owner to deliver information form to arbitrator if proceeding
to arbitration
6
(1)  If the matter proceeds to arbitration, the park owner
must submit a copy of the statement of rent increase information
form to the arbitrator at least 7 days before the hearing.
(2)  If there have been any changes to the form delivered
under section 5, the park owner must give the amended form to the
home owner applicant at least 7 days before the arbitration
hearing.
No award of increase if expenses unproven
7
The subcommittee may recommend or an arbitrator may award a zero
percentage adjustment for any part of the basic rent increase for
which the park owner has not substantiated the relevant costs or
expenditures at the mediation or arbitration.
Part 3 - Calculation of Basic Rent Increase
Base rent to take into account amounts reduced to offset
overpayment or other factor
8
For this Part and for the purposes of issuing a notice of rent
increase, the base rent is to include any amount by which the rent
payable has been reduced to offset an overpayment or for a rent
reduction under section 12 of the
Residential Tenancy Act
, as well as any remaining portion of a previous rent increase not
yet fully phased in, as determined through a previous mediation or
arbitration.
Calculation for other business, activity or asset
9
(1)  Throughout the calculation under this Part, if another
business, activity or asset is located in the park, the park owner
must make a reasonable estimate of the proportion of operating
expenses and capital expenditures attributable to that business,
activity or asset, and provide the rationale on which the estimate
is based.
(2)  The subcommittee may recommend or an arbitrator must
determine whether the park owner's estimate of the proportion
applicable to the park is reasonable, and may adjust that amount
if necessary.
(3)  The proportion of each expenditure that may be included
in the calculation is the proportion that is determined to be
applicable to the park.
(4)  If a reasonable estimate cannot be made or the amount
involved is relatively minor, and it is reasonable to do so,
related revenues may be included in the estimated gross annual
income for the purpose of each calculation as appropriate.
Calculation of basic rent increase
10
(1)  For notices of rent increase given on or after October
1, 1992 and effective on or before December 31, 1998, the basic
rent increase and, if applicable, the expense to income ratio
adjustment, are calculated according to the method set out in
Appendix B.
(2)  For notices of rent increase effective on or after
January 1, 1999, the basic rent increase is calculated according
to section 11.
Calculation of basic rent increase on or after January 1, 1999
11
(1)  For this section:
"base rent"
means the rent lawfully in effect on the date on which the
disputed notice of rent increase was given;
"relevant year"
means the most recent fiscal year for the park ending at least six
months prior to January 1 of the calendar year in which the notice
of rent increase is effective;
"preceding year"
means the fiscal year for the park immediately preceding the
relevant year.
(2)  If a change in the relevant year used for the park
results in capital expenditures or a change in local government
levies being counted twice or omitted, the subcommittee or an
arbitrator may:
(a) exclude any capital expenditures occurring in the
relevant year or changes in local government levies occurring
between the relevant and preceding year which were included in the
calculation of the basic rent increase for the same pad or pads
for a previous year in a mediation or arbitration; or
(b) include any capital expenditures or changes in local
government levies which occurred during an intervening period and
which were not included in the calculation of the basic rent
increase for the same pad or pads for a previous year in a
mediation or arbitration.
(3)  The basic rent increase for notices of rent increase
effective on or after January 1, 1999 is calculated using the
following Steps:
Step 1: Calculate estimated gross annual income
Estimated gross annual income from the park is calculated using
the following formula and definition:
estimated gross annual income = monthly rent x 12
In the formula:
"monthly rent"
is the sum of
(a) the full rent payable for the last month of the relevant
year for each manufactured home pad in the park that is occupied
by a home owner who does not receive a discount on the rent, and
(b) the full rent payable for the last month of the relevant
year for a similar manufactured home pad, with comparable
services, facilities and surroundings in the manufactured home
park, for each manufactured home pad in the park that is
(i)  vacant,
(ii)  used in the operation of the manufactured home park, or
(iii)  occupied by a person who receives a discount on the
rent, such as the park owner, a relative of the park owner, or an
employee or agent of the park owner.
Step 2: Calculate percentage rent adjustment from local
government levies
The percentage rent adjustment from local government levies (LGL)
is calculated using the following formula and definitions:
LGL for relevant year — LGL for preceding year
%
adjustment from LGL
=
x
100
estimated gross annual income
In the formula:
"local government levies"
or
"LGL"
means any property, school or other tax, levy or fee applicable to
the park and payable to the local government (including
municipalities and regional districts), including transit,
recycling (blue box), garbage, sewer and water fees.
Step 3: Calculate percentage rent adjustment from capital
expenditures
The percentage rent adjustment from capital expenditures is the
amount obtained using the following formula and definitions:
sum of capital
expenditures
x
capital expenditure
adjustment rate
% adjustment from
capital expenditures
=
x
100
estimated gross annual income
In the formula:
"capital expenditure"
means a major expenditure made by the park owner in respect of the
park during the relevant year that is non-recurring within a
reasonable number of years and is
(a) necessary to
(i)  protect or restore the physical integrity of the park,
(ii)  comply with municipal or provincial health, safety or
housing standards,
(iii)  maintain water, sewage, electrical, lighting, roadway
or other facilities,
(iv)  provide access for persons with disabilities, or
(v)  promote the efficient use of energy or water, or
(b) for renovations or new services or facilities with the
written approval of
(i)  the home owner, if the expenditure benefits only the
manufactured home pad of that home owner, or
(ii)  at least 2/3 of the home owners in the manufactured
home park who will benefit from the expenditure,
and is not an expenditure required because the residential
property has not been properly maintained in the past or an
expenditure for which the park owner has been or will be
compensated by another person;
"capital expenditure adjustment rate"
means the relevant percentage in Appendix A for the year
corresponding to the effective date of the disputed notice of rent
increase.
If a capital expenditure clearly benefits only one pad or some of
the pads in the park, and is unrelated to the shared facilities or
infrastructure of the park, a separate calculation must be done to
separate that expenditure from those benefiting all pads. In those
cases, the estimated gross annual income must be replaced with the
estimated gross annual income from the benefiting pad or pads in
the formula in this Step, and the resulting rent adjustment must
be applied to the rent of the benefiting pad or pads only.
Step 4: Determine percentage rent adjustment from rent
inflation factor
The percentage rent increase from the rent inflation factor is the
percentage provided in Appendix A that corresponds to the
effective date of the notice of rent increase.
Step 5: Calculate basic rent increase
The basic rent increase expressed as a percentage is the sum of
the percentage rent adjustment from local government levies, the
percentage rent adjustment from capital expenditures, and the
percentage rent adjustment from the rent inflation factor.
The basic rent increase expressed in dollars is calculated by
multiplying the percentage basic rent increase by the base rent.
Part 4 - Adjustments for Exceptionally High or Low Base
Rents
Application of Part 4
12
Part 4 applies only to notices of rent increase effective on or
after January 1, 1999.
Home owner may request adjustment for exceptionally high base rent
13
(1)  A home owner may request an adjustment to the basic rent
increase to take into account an exceptionally high base rent.
(2)  A home owner requesting an adjustment under subsection
(1) must notify the park owner and the dispute resolution
committee or arbitrator at least 10 days before the mediation
meeting or arbitration hearing, in the form and manner determined
by the dispute resolution committee.
Park owner may request adjustment for exceptionally low base rent
14
(1)  The park owner may request an adjustment to the basic
rent increase to take into account an exceptionally low base rent.
(2)  A park owner requesting an adjustment under subsection
(1) must notify the home owner and the dispute resolution
committee or arbitrator at least 10 days before the mediation
meeting or arbitration hearing in the form and manner determined
by the dispute resolution committee.
Adjustment for exceptionally high base rent
15
(1)  If the home owner has requested an adjustment under
section 13, and the subcommittee or arbitrator finds that the base
rent is exceptionally high based on criteria in subsection (2),
the basic rent increase may be reduced by up to $10.
(2)  A base rent is exceptionally high if the subcommittee or
arbitrator finds the rent to be exceptionally high considering the
location, condition, and amenities of the park, and any other
relevant information.
(3)  In order to determine whether the rent is exceptionally
high according to the criteria in subsection (2), the subcommittee
or arbitrator must consider:
(a) any relevant information presented by the home owner,
(b) any relevant information presented by the park owner,
which may include information about the expense to income ratio
for the park as set out in section 17.
Adjustment for exceptionally low base rent
16
(1)  If the park owner has requested an adjustment under
section 14, and the subcommittee or arbitrator finds that the base
rent is exceptionally low, the basic rent increase may be
increased by up to $10.
(2)  A base rent is exceptionally low if the subcommittee or
arbitrator finds the rent to be exceptionally low considering the
location, condition, amenities, and expense to income ratio for
the park and any other relevant information.
(3)  In order to determine whether the rent is exceptionally
low, the subcommittee or arbitrator must consider
(a) whether the expense to income ratio reflects a low base
rent as set out in section 17 (2), and any other relevant
information provided by the park owner, and
(b) any relevant information presented by the home owner.
(4)  An adjustment for an exceptionally low base rent will
not be made if the park owner has not provided the expense to
income ratio information for the park in the form and manner
determined by the dispute resolution committee.
Expense to income ratio
17
(1)  The expense to income ratio reflects a high base rent if
it is significantly lower than 35% or other appropriate number as
set out by the dispute resolution committee, depending on other
factors, such as the size of the park.
(2)  The expense to income ratio for the park reflects a low
base rent if it is significantly higher than 35% or other
appropriate number as set out by the dispute resolution committee,
depending on other factors, such as the size of the park.
(3)  The expense to income ratio is calculated as follows,
using the definition of "total operating expenses" provided in
this Part, and the estimated gross annual income calculated
according to Step 1 of the calculation of the basic rent increase:
expense to income ratio as a % =
total operating expenses
x 100
estimated gross annual income
"total operating expenses"
means the sum of the payments made by the park owner for all of
the following expenses applicable to the operation of the park for
the relevant year:
(a) local government levies, as defined in this regulation;
(b) utilities, including heating oil, gas and electricity;
(c) repair and maintenance expenses, including sewer and
water expenses if not included in local government levies, and
payments to, or on behalf of, a caretaker or superintendent for
repair and maintenance work but excluding amounts spent on capital
improvements;
(d) property management expenses, including payments to, or
on behalf of, a caretaker or superintendent for property
management, and the total amount of payments recognized for
property management expenses is either
(i)  a deemed payment of 5% of estimated gross annual income
if property management work is done by the park owner, or
(ii)  actual property management expenses supported by
receipts, up to a maximum of 10% of estimated gross annual income;
(e) legal, accounting, advertising, collection, license and
permit fees, insurance premiums other than premiums for mortgage
insurance, and other similar business expenses that are necessary
for the operation of the park.
Part 5 - Additional Relevant Factors
Justifiable rent increase if no further relevant factors
18
If there are no further relevant factors to be considered, the
subcommittee must recommend or the arbitrator must order a
justifiable rent increase that is equal to the basic rent increase
obtained using the formula in Part 3 and any adjustment made under
Part 4 or Appendix B.
Exceptional cases and further adjustment
19
(1)  For exceptional cases, if the subcommittee or arbitrator
finds that there are additional relevant factors, the subcommittee
or arbitrator may make a further adjustment to the basic rent
increase in order to determine a justifiable rent increase that is
fair to both parties.
(2)  Additional relevant factors may be raised by the park
owner or home owner before or during the mediation meeting or
arbitration hearing.
Excluded factors not considered
20
The subcommittee or arbitrator may not make an adjustment to the
basic rent increase on the basis of factors that are excluded by
this regulation.
Additional relevant factors
21
The factors that the subcommittee or an arbitrator may take into
account in determining the justifiable rent increase include but
are not limited to the factors listed in sections 22 to 27.
Relevant terms of the tenancy agreement
22
If the tenancy agreement between a park owner and a home owner
contains provisions that are relevant to the rent increase in
dispute, the subcommittee or arbitrator may make appropriate
adjustments to the basic rent increase.
History of rent increases in the park
23
(1)  If a period of time occurred in which the park owner
could have given but did not give a rent increase, the
subcommittee or arbitrator may make an adjustment to the basic
rent increase under subsection (2) or (3), if fair and appropriate
under the circumstances.
(2)  For notices of rent increase effective on or after
January 1, 1999, the subcommittee or arbitrator may adjust the
basic rent increase to take into account capital expenditures and
changes in local government levies occurring in the year preceding
the relevant year, if those factors have not been included in a
previous rent increase calculation.
(3)  For notices of rent increase given on or after October
1, 1992 and effective on or before December 31, 1998, the method
set out in Appendix C must be used if an adjustment is made on the
basis of the history of rent increases in the park.
Relevant arbitrator's orders and previous agreements
24
(1)  The subcommittee or arbitrator may make adjustments to
the basic rent increase as appropriate on the basis of an
arbitrator's order or a previous agreement between the park owner
and home owner relating to a rent increase or rent freeze
specified for the year in dispute.
(2)  The subcommittee or arbitrator may make adjustments to
the basic rent increase on the basis of relevant terms contained
in a previous arbitrator's order or an agreement between the park
owner and home owner, including but not limited to the following:
(a) expenditures agreed to be undertaken by the park owner in
exchange for a specified rent increase given in advance of the
expenditures, if the actual expenditures would otherwise be
eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the basic rent
increase for the year in dispute;
(b) estimates of expenditures that the park owner had agreed
to make in exchange for a negotiated rent increase amount, but
which subsequently proved to be significantly higher or lower than
estimated.
(3)  If the park owner agreed to make improvements to the
park in exchange for a higher rent increase in a previous
agreement, but subsequently failed to make some or all of the
estimated expenditure, this may result in a reduction to any
subsequent rent increase recommended or ordered by the
subcommittee or arbitrator.
Non-monetary contribution
25
(1)  The subcommittee or arbitrator may adjust the basic rent
increase to reflect non-monetary contributions made by the park
owner or home owner to the operation or improvement of the park,
if appropriate.
(2)  If the work done would fall under the definition of
capital expenditure as provided in this regulation had the park
owner paid another person to complete the work, the subcommittee
or arbitrator may attribute a reasonable sum for the park owner's
labour or equipment, or both, and include that sum as a capital
expenditure in the calculation of the basic rent increase.
Other similar expenses
26
If the park owner incurs an expense that is similar to but does
not fit clearly into one of the categories of expense provided
under this regulation, the subcommittee or arbitrator may consider
the expense to be in the category most similar to it.
Subcommittee recommendation
27
If a dispute proceeds to arbitration, the arbitrator may make
adjustments to the basic rent increase on the basis of the
subcommittee's recommendation.
Excluded factors
28
(1)  Adjustments to the basic rent increase may not be made
on the basis of changes in the park owner's debt servicing costs.
(2)  Adjustments may not be made on the basis of market rent
comparisons or the profitability of the park, except as provided
for under Part Four and Step Six in Appendix B.
Part 6 - Dispute Resolution Subcommittee Recommendation
and Arbitrator's Written Decision
Written recommendation or decision
29
(1)  The subcommittee's recommendation or arbitrator's
written decision must indicate the following:
(a) the basic rent increase;
(b) any further adjustments made to the basic rent increase
or basic rent increase formula and the reasons for those
adjustments;
(c) the resulting justifiable rent increase;
(d) the effective date of the justifiable rent increase;
(e) the resulting justifiable rent, which is to serve as the
base rent for the purpose of the next lawful rent increase;
(f) the rent payable by the home owner, if that amount is
different from the justifiable rent.
(2)  The subcommittee's written recommendation must indicate
all matters mediated and any recommendation made with respect to
each matter.
Phased-in rent increase
30
(1)  If the justifiable rent increase is large and it is
appropriate to do so, the subcommittee may recommend and an
arbitrator may order that the justifiable rent increase be phased
in over time.
(2)  If a rent increase determined through a previous
mediation or arbitration has not been fully phased in on the date
on which the disputed notice of rent increase was given, the base
rent for that year for the purpose of calculating the basic rent
increase must include the remaining portion of the rent increase
yet to be phased in.
Options for repayment of rent overpayments
31
(1)  In order to correct for an overpayment of rent by the
home owner, the subcommittee or arbitrator may make a
recommendation or order
(a) that the amount of overpayment is to be set off against
all or part of the future rent payable by the home owner, or
(b) that the park owner reimburse the home owner for the
amount of the overpayment.
(2)  If the parties negotiate their own agreement ending the
dispute, they may agree to repayment options different from those
provided for under subsection (1).
Appendix A
[en. B.C. Reg. 130/2002.]
Table of Rent Inflation Factors and Capital
Expenditure Adjustment Rates for Notices of Rent
Increase Effective on or after January 1, 2002
Effective date of rent increase:
Between
January 1, 2002 and
December 31, 2002
On or after
January 1, 2003
rent inflation factor
2.0%
1.8%
capital expenditure adjustment rate
7.3%
5.0%
Appendix B and C
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 281/2001, s. (c).]
[Provisions of the
Residential Tenancy Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 406, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 18 (2) (a), 73 (2) and 90 (2) (r) and (3)]
