"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act
British Columbia Housing Management Commission Regulation
B.C. Reg. 490/79
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Section 3
December 19, 2016
Section 5
March 30, 2022
Section 7
March 30, 2022
Section 3 (a) to (c), (f.2) and (f.3) BEFORE amended by BC Reg
323/2016, effective December 19, 2016.
(a)
manage housing made available to it under agreements with the
minister or under agreements between the Government of Canada and
the Government of British Columbia or their agents,
(b)
maintain, repair and renovate the buildings, lands and equipment
comprising housing administered by it, either by its own resources
or by contract,
(c)
acquire supplies and maintain and repair the supplies and equipment
necessary to the management of housing administered by it,
(f.2)
make loans and grants of money to societies, public housing
corporations or housing co-operatives incorporated under the laws of
British Columbia or of Canada for the purpose of facilitating
projects to build or to repair housing intended for sale or rent to
low and moderate income households,
(f.3)
make a loan of money to a person, other than a person referred to in
paragraph (f.2), for the purpose of facilitating a project, or a
portion of a project, that is dedicated exclusively to building or
repairing housing intended for sale or rent to low or moderate
income households on the conditions that
(i)
it is a term of the loan that the money be used only for that
project or portion, and
(ii)
a mortgage securing the amount of the loan
(A)
is registered in the land title office as a charge against the title
to the land on which the housing is or will be located, and
(B)
has a priority equal to or greater than the registered interest of
any other lender to the project,
Section 3 (b.1) and (f.4) to (f.6) were added by BC Reg 323/2016,
effective December 19, 2016.
Section 5 (3) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective March 30,
2022.
(3)
The Board of Commissioners, or, if authorized by the Board of
Commissioners, the chief executive officer, may appoint such
officers, employees and agents as it or he considers necessary to
carry on the business and operations of the commission, and may fix
their term of office or employment, terminate appointments or remove
or suspend them, reappoint or reinstate them, fix their remuneration
and vary or terminate it, appoint others in their place and stead or
to act in their place and stead, appoint others as their deputies,
define their duties and provide a system of organization to fix
responsibility and promote efficiency.
Section 7 (1), (2) and (6) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022,
effective March 30, 2022.
(1)
The commission shall establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the minister, and shall, whenever required by him,
render detailed accounts of its revenues and expenditures for such
period or to such day as he may designate.
(2)
All books or records of accounts, documents and other financial
records shall at all times be open for inspection by the minister or
such other person as he may designate.
(6)
The commission shall maintain such records on program activities as
deemed necessary by the minister or a person designated by him, and
shall present such records to the minister or his designee as
requested.
