
Workers Compensation Act
[RSBC 2019] CHAPTER 1


Deposited with Clerk of the Legislative Assembly on August 23, 2019




[Note: the dollar amounts shown in sections 94, 95, 102, 167, 169,
170 to 175, 191, 194, 208, 213, 225, 231, 236, 251 and 349 may not
reflect the current consumer price index adjustments referred to in
section 333, and the maximum wage rate shown in section
209 (2) and 227 may not be current.




Current information may be found on the Workers' Compensation Board
website at
www.worksafebc.com/en/law-policy/claims-rehabilitation/claims-related-consumer-price-index
or may be obtained by calling your WorkSafeBC regional office.]





Item

Column 1

Description of Disease


Column 2

Description of Process or Industry





1
Poisoning by:



(1) Lead

Where there is exposure to lead or lead compounds.



(2) Mercury

Where there is exposure to mercury or mercury compounds.



(3) Arsenic or arsine

Where there is exposure to arsenic or arsenic compounds.



(4) Cadmium

Where there is exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds.



(5) Manganese

Where there is exposure to manganese or manganese compounds.




(6) Phosphorus, phosphine or the anti-cholinesterase action of
organic phosphorus compounds


Where there is exposure to phosphorus or phosphorus compounds.




(7) Organic solvents, including n-hexane, carbon tetrachloride,
trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, acetone, benzene, toluene and
xylene


Where there is exposure to organic solvents.



(8) Carbon monoxide

Where there is exposure to products of combustion or to any other
source of carbon monoxide.



(9) Hydrogen sulphide

Where there is excessive exposure to hydrogen sulphide.




(10) Nitrous fumes, including silo-filler's disease


Where there is excessive exposure to nitrous fumes, including the
oxides of nitrogen.




(11) Nitriles, hydrogen cyanide or its soluble salts


Where there is exposure to chemicals containing -CN group,
including certain pesticides.



(12) Phosgene

Where there is excessive exposure to phosgene, including its
occurrence as a breakdown product of chlorinated compounds by
combustion.



(13) Other toxic substances

Where there is exposure to such toxic gases, vapours, mists, fumes
or dusts.



2
Infection caused by:



(1) Psittacosis virus

Where there is established contact with ornithosis-infected avian
species or material.




(2) Salmonella organisms, Staphylococcus aureus, or Hepatitis B
virus


Where close and frequent contact with a source or sources of the
infection has been established and the employment necessitates




(a)

the treatment, nursing or examination of or interviews
with patients or ill persons,



(b)

the analysis or testing of body tissues or fluids, or



(c)

research into salmonellae, pathogenic staphylococci or
Hepatitis B virus.








(3) Brucella organisms, including Undulant fever


Where there is contact with animals, animal carcasses or animal
by-products.



(4) Tubercle bacillus

Where close and frequent contact with a source or sources of
tuberculous infection has been established and the employment
necessitates




(a)

the treatment, nursing or examination of patients or ill
persons,



(b)

the analysis or testing of body tissues or fluids, or



(c)

research into tuberculosis by a worker who,




(i)

when first engaged, or after an absence from employment of
the types mentioned in these regulations for a period of
more than one year, when re-engaged in such employment was
free from evidence of tuberculosis, and




(ii)

continued to be free from evidence of tuberculosis for 6
months after being so employed, except in the case of
primary tuberculosis as proven by a negative tuberculin
test at the time of employment. In the case of a worker
previously compensated for tuberculosis, any subsequent
tuberculosis after the disease has become inactive and has
remained inactive for a period of 3 years or more is not
to be considered to have occurred as a result of the
original disability, unless the worker is still engaged in
employment listed above or the Board is satisfied that the
subsequent tuberculosis is the direct result of the
tuberculosis for which the worker has been compensated.







3
Pneumoconiosis:



(1) Silicosis

Where there is exposure to airborne silica dust, including in
metalliferous mining and coal mining.



(2) Asbestosis

Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust.



(3) Other pneumoconioses

Where there is exposure to the airborne dusts of coal, beryllium,
tungsten carbide, aluminum or other dusts known to produce
fibrosis of the lungs.



4

Diffuse pleural thickening or fibrosis, whether unilateral or
bilateral


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust and the worker
has not previously had and does not currently have collagen
disease, chronic uremia, drug-induced fibrosis, tuberculosis or
other infection, trauma or disease capable of causing pleural
thickening or fibrosis.



5

Benign pleural effusion, whether unilateral or bilateral


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust and the worker
has not previously had and does not currently have collagen
disease, chronic uremia, tuberculosis or other infection, trauma
or disease capable of causing pleural effusion.



6
Cancer:




(1) Primary carcinoma of the lung when associated with asbestosis


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust.




(2) Primary carcinoma of the lung when associated with bilateral
diffuse pleural thickening over 2 mm thick


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust and the worker
has not previously had collagen disease, chronic uremia,
drug-induced fibrosis, tuberculosis or other infection or trauma
capable of causing pleural thickening.



(3) Primary carcinoma of the lung

Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust for a period of
10 years or more of employment in one or more of the following
industries:




(a)
asbestos mining;


(b)

insulation or filter material production;



(c)

construction, where there is disturbance of
asbestos-containing materials;



(d)

plumbing or electrical work;



(e)
pulp mill work;


(f)
shipyard work;


(g)
longshoring.







(4) Mesothelioma, whether pleural or peritoneal


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust.




(5) Carcinoma, associated with asbestosis, of the larynx or
pharynx


Where there is exposure to airborne asbestos dust.




(6) Gastrointestinal cancer, including all primary cancers
associated with the esophagus, stomach, small bowel, colon and
rectum excluding the anus, and without regard to the site of the
cancer in the gastrointestinal tract or the histological structure
of the cancer


Where there is exposure to asbestos dust if, during the period
between the first exposure to asbestos dust and the diagnosis of
gastrointestinal cancer, there has been a period of, or periods
adding up to, 20 years of continuous exposure to asbestos dust and
such exposure represents or is a manifestation of the major
component of the occupational activity in which the exposure
occurred.



(7) Primary cancer of the lung

Where there is prolonged exposure to any of the following:




(a)

aerosols and gases containing arsenic, chromium, nickel or
their compounds;



(b)
bis(chloromethyl) ether;


(c)

the dust of uranium, or radon gas and its decay products;



(d)

particulate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.







(8) Leukemia or pre-leukemia

Where there is prolonged exposure to benzene or to ionizing
radiation.



(9) Primary cancer of the skin

Where there is




(a)

prolonged contact with coal tar products, arsenic or
cutting oils, or



(b)

prolonged exposure to solar ultraviolet light.








(10) Primary cancer of the epithelial lining of the urinary
bladder, ureter or renal pelvis


Where there is prolonged exposure to beta-naphthylamine, benzidine
or 4-nitrodiphenyl.




(11) Primary cancer of the mucous lining of the nose or nasal
sinuses


Where there is prolonged exposure to




(a)

dusts, fumes or mists containing nickel, or



(b)
the dusts of hard woods.






(12) Angiosarcoma of the liver

Where there is exposure to vinyl chloride monomer.



7
Asthma

Where there is exposure to any of the following:




(a)
western red cedar dust;


(b)

isocyanate vapours or gases;



(c)

the dusts, fumes or vapours of other chemicals or organic
material known to cause asthma.







8

Extrinsic allergic alveolitis, including farmers' lung and
mushroom workers' lung


Where there is repeated exposure to respirable organic dusts.



9

Acute upper respiratory inflammation, acute pharyngitis, acute
laryngitis, acute tracheitis, acute bronchitis, acute pneumonitis
or acute pulmonary edema, excluding any allergic reaction,
reaction to environmental tobacco smoke or effect of an infection


Where




(a)

there is exposure to a high concentration of fumes,
vapours, gases, mists or dusts of substances that have
irritating or inflammatory properties, and



(b)

the respiratory symptoms occur within 48 hours of the
exposure or, if there is exposure to nitrogen dioxide or
phosgene, within 72 hours of the exposure.







10
Metal fume fever

Where there is exposure to the fumes of zinc or other metals.



11
Fluorosis

Where there is exposure to high concentrations of fluorine or
fluorine compounds, whether in gaseous or particulate form.



12
Neurosensory hearing loss

Where there is prolonged exposure to excessive noise levels.



13
Bursitis:




(1) Knee bursitis (inflammation of the prepatellar, suprapatellar
or superficial infrapatellar bursa)


Where




(a)

there is repeated jarring impact against the involved
bursa, or



(b)

there are significant periods of kneeling on the involved
bursa.








(2) Shoulder bursitis (inflammation of the subacromial or
subdeltoid bursa)


Where there is frequently repeated or sustained abduction or
flexion of the shoulder joint greater than 60° and where such
activity represents a significant component of the employment.



14
Tendinopathy:



(1) Hand-wrist tendinopathy

Where there is use of the affected tendon or tendons to perform a
task or series of tasks that involve any 2 of the following and
where such activity represents a significant component of the
employment:




(a)

frequently repeated motions or muscle contractions that
place strain on the affected tendon or tendons;



(b)

significant flexion, extension, ulnar deviation or radial
deviation of the affected hand or wrist;



(c)

forceful exertion of the muscles used in handling or
moving tools or other objects with the affected hand or
wrist.







(2) Shoulder tendinopathy

Where there is frequently repeated or sustained abduction or
flexion of the shoulder joint greater than 60° and where such
activity represents a significant component of the employment.



15
Decompression sickness

Where there is exposure to increased air pressure.



16
Contact dermatitis

Where there is excessive exposure to irritants, allergens or
sensitizers ordinarily causative of dermatitis.



17
Hand-arm vibration syndrome

Where there has been at least 1 000 hours of exposure to
tools or equipment that causes the transfer of significant
vibration to the hand or arm of the worker.



18
Radiation injury or disease:



(1) Due to ionizing radiation

Where there is exposure to ionizing radiation.




(2) Due to non-ionizing radiation:




(a) conjunctivitis or keratitis

Where there is exposure to ultraviolet light.




(b) cataract or other thermal damage to the eye


Where there is excessive exposure to infrared, microwave or laser
radiation.



19
Erosion of incisor teeth

Where there is exposure to acid fumes or mist.



20
Infection that is

Where

(a) there is a risk of exposure to a source or sources of
infection significantly greater than that to the public at large,

(b) the risk of exposure occurs during the applicable notice or
emergency under column 1, and

(c) the risk of exposure occurs within the geographical area of
the applicable notice or emergency under column 1.




(1) caused by communicable viral pathogens, and




(2) the subject of one or more of the following:

(a) notice given under section 52 (2) of the
Public Health Act
;

(b) a state of emergency declared under section 9 (1) of the
Emergency Program Act
;

(c) a state of local emergency declared under section 12 (1) of
the
Emergency Program Act
;

(d) an emergency declared under section 173 of the
Vancouver Charter
.


