"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Meat Inspection Act
Meat Inspection Regulation
B.C. Reg. 54/66
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 349/2004, effective September 1, 2004.
B.C. Reg. 54/66
O.C. 552/66
Meat Inspection Act
Meat Inspection Regulation
Division 1 - Definitions
Definitions
1.01
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Meat Inspection Act
;
"bacon"
means cured half carcasses, backs or bellies of pork;
"B.C. Condemned"
means that the carcass, parts of carcass, meat, meat products or meat food products so marked are unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome or otherwise unfit for human food;
"B.C. Held"
means that the carcass, viscera, part of carcass, meat, meat byproduct, so marked or identified, is held for further examination by an inspector to determine its disposal;
"B.C. Inedible"
means that carcasses or portions thereof so marked may be used for general animal food only;
"B.C. Passed"
meats that the carcass, viscera, part of carcass, meat, meat byproduct or meat food product so marked has been inspected and found fit for human consumption;
"B.C. Rejected"
means that carcasses, portions or products thereof so marked may be rendered into lard or tallow or cooked until sterile;
"B.C. Suspect"
means that the animal so tagged or marked is suspected of being affected with a disease or condition which may require its condemnation, in whole or in part, when slaughtered, and is subject to further examination by an inspector to determine its disposal;
"compound lard"
means a mixture of animal and vegetable fats and oils. It shall be free from rancidity, be made from sound and pure materials, and contain not more than 1% of substances other than fatty acids and fat, and at least 51% of actual lard shall be present in the article;
"ministry"
means the British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture and Food;
"dripping"
means fat that has dripped from meat in the process of cooking by dry heat;
"edible"
means fit for human food;
"establishment"
means any abattoir, slaughter house, packing house or other premises in which animals are slaughtered, or in which portions or products thereof are prepared for food, or are stored;
"first dealer"
means
(a) any packer who buys food products packed by another for sale under his own label, or
(b) any person operating premises at which he pays business tax or otherwise is assessed as a wholesale or retail dealer who buys food products for sale under his own label;
"ham"
means a pork ham; beef ham or other hams shall be so designated;
"inedible"
means unfit for human food;
"inspection legend stamp"
means the official mark placed upon carcasses, portions or edible products thereof which have passed inspection, or upon packages containing same;
"label"
means any printed, embossed or lithographed design, label, tag, sticker, seal, wrapper, stencil, material or receptacle which may be approved from time to time by the Chief Veterinary Inspector;
"lard"
means the rendered fat from hogs in good health at the time of slaughter. It shall be clean, free from rancidity, and contain necessarily incorporated in the process of rendering not more that 1% of substances other than fatty acids or fat;
"leaf lard"
means lard rendered at a moderately high temperature from the internal fat of the abdomen of the hog, excluding that adherent to the intestines, and shall have an iodine value (Hanus) not greater than 65, and contain not more that 1% of substances other than fatty acids and fat;
"meat"
means the clean, sound, properly dressed flesh of one or more animals, healthy at the time of slaughter, and shall include the heart, tongue, diaphragm and oesophagus in addition to the skeletal musculature with attendant tissues; but does not include the muscle and attendant tissues of the lips, snout and ears;
"meat byproduct"
means the clean, sound edible parts other than meat derived from one or more animals, healthy at the time of slaughter, and shall include the tissue reduced from the processes whereby edible fats are rendered;
"meat loaf"
means a mixture of comminuted cooked meat, with or without spices, cereals, milk or eggs, pressed into a loaf. If it bears a descriptive name, it shall correspond thereto. Meat loaf shall not contain more than 5% of cereals;
"pluck"
means the heart, lungs and liver with their attendant parts and respective lymph glands attached;
"prepared meat"
or
"prepared meat byproduct"
means meat or meat byproduct preserved, canned, frozen, cooked, comminuted or subjected to any combination of these processes, with or without any other approved ingredient;
"ship"
or
"transport"
means the overt act of any person leading to the movement, by any means of conveyance, of any carcass, portion or product thereof, between points within the Province;
"shortening"
, other than butter, lard or lard compound, means a combination of edible animal or vegetable fats or edible oils variously processed by hydrogenation or otherwise, free from rancidity, objectionable tastes or odours, containing not more than 1% of substances other than fatty acids and fats;
"
Lifestock Identification Act
"
means the Act respecting the marking of cattle and horses, and regulations made thereunder, as administered by the British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture and Food;
"suet"
means the fat taken from the region of the kidney or loin, or caul fat from a beef carcass;
"tallow"
means rendered beef fat or rendered mutton fat, or a mixture of both.
Interpretation
1.02
A reference in this regulation to a
'Chief Veterinary Inspector'
is deemed to be reference to the 'Provincial Veterinarian'.
[am. B.C. Reg. 24/71.]
Division 2 - Diseases and Conditions
Conditions for condemnation of entire carcass
2.01
The entire carcass and blood of any animal affected with any of the following diseases or conditions shall be condemned and tanked, or otherwise disposed of, as hereinafter provided:
(a) anthrax;
(b) blackleg;
(c) hog cholera;
(d) malignant catarrh;
(e) parasitic icterohematuria;
(f) pyaemia or septicaemia;
(g) rabies;
(h) swine plague or hemorrhagic septicaemia;
(i) tetanus;
(j) Texas fever or piroplasmosis;
(k) traumatic pericarditis;
(l) uraemia;
(m) vesicular exanthema.
Inflammation
2.02
The carcass of an animal shall be condemned if the lungs, pleura, intestines, peritoneum, uterus or meninges show acute or numerous areas of chronic inflammation.
Parturition
2.03
The carcass of an animal that gave birth to young within the 10 days immediately preceding slaughter shall be condemned.
Immaturity
2.04
A carcass shall be condemned for immaturity if
(a) the meat has the appearance of being water soaked, or is loose, flabby, tears easily and can be perforated with the fingers,
(b) its colour is greyish-red,
(c) good muscular development as a whole is lacking, especially on the upper shank of the leg, where small amounts of serous infiltrate or small oedematous patches are present between the muscles, or
(d) the tissue that later develops as the fat capsules of the kidney is oedematous, dirty yellow or greyish red, tough and intermixed with islands of fat.
Brucellosis
2.05
(1) 							A carcass showing generalized lesions of brucellosis shall be condemned.
(2)
Where a carcass shows only localized lesions of brucellosis, the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Emaciation
2.06
(1)
An emaciated carcass shall be condemned.
(2)
For the purposes of this section, emaciation is a pathological condition, usually secondary, caused by lowered food intake or increased metabolic rate, characterized by atrophy and flabby condition of the musculature and general retrogression in body condition and diminution of the size of the organs; the outstanding characteristic is the loss of intermuscular tissue and internal fats that are replaced by a sickly yellow and jelly-like substance.
(3)
A carcass shall not be regarded as emaciated by reason only that it is lean.
Anaemia, hydraemia and cachexia
2.07
(1)
Carcasses of animals affected with anaemia, hydraemia or cachexia shall be condemned.
(2)
For the purposes of this section,
"anaemia"
is the diminution of the number of red blood corpuscles and is distinguished by paleness of all tissues;
"hydraemia"
is the increase of water content of the blood and is distinquished by a watery and oedematous condition of the subcutaneous tissues and body cavities;
"cachexia"
is the advanced state of constitutional disorders, wasting, anaemia, hydraemia or weakness.
Tuberculosis
2.08
(1)
Any carcass affected with tuberculosis, in which the disease is associated with emaciation or is extensive, shall be condemned.
(2)
When the lesions of tuberculosis are collectively small in extent, and are either calcified or encysted, and confined to the head, or to the head and the abdominal and thoracic viscera, and lymph glands, the affected parts shall be removed and condemned (except the head, which shall be removed and disposed of as provided in subsection (3)), and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is well nourished and otherwise healthy and fit for food; when the lesions are small but are in a state of caseation, the carcass may be rejected after the diseased portions have been removed and condemned.
(3)
Heads showing lesions of tuberculosis shall be condemned, except those from approved or rejected carcasses wherein the lesions are relatively unimportant to the head itself, are slight and either calcified or encapsulated, and are confined to not more than 2 lymph glands of the cervical group; such heads may be rejected after removal and condemnation of the diseased tissue.
(4)
Abdominal viscera showing lesions of tuberculosis shall be condemned, except those from approved or rejected hog carcasses wherein the lesions in the mesenteric lymphatic glands are slight and either calcified or encapsulated and are confined to not more than 3 foci; such viscera may be rejected after removal and condemnation of the diseased glands.
(5)
Any organ shall be condemned when it contains lesions of tuberculosis or when the corresponding lymph gland is tuberculous in the case of rejected heads, the tongue and other edible parts may be rejected, after removal of glands and adjacent tissues.
Actinomycosis or actinobacillosis
2.09
(1)
A carcass affected with actinomycosis or actinobacillosis shall be condemned if the lesions are generalized; where the lesions are uncomplicated and localized, the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is well nourished and otherwise healthy and fit for food.
(2)
Heads affected with actinomycosis or actinobacillosis, including the tongue, shall be condemned, except that when the disease of the jaw is slight, strictly localized and without suppuration, fistulous tracts or lymph gland involvement, the tongue, if it is free from disease, may be rejected, or when the disease is slight and confined to the lymph glands, the head, including the tongue, may be rejected.
(3)
When the disease is slight and confined to the tongue with or without involvement of the corresponding lymph glands, the tongue and corresponding lymph glands shall be removed and condemned.
Lesions
2.10
For the purposes of sections 2.08 and 2.09, lesions are to be considered generalized when present not only at the usual seats of primary infection but also in parts of the carcass or in the organs that may be reached by the organisms of tuberculosis, actinomycosis or actinobacillosis only when they are carried in the systemic circulation; lesions in any 2 of the following mentioned organs are to be accepted as evidence of generalization when they occur in addition to local lesions in the digestive or respiratory tracts, including the lymph glands connected therewith, namely, spleen, kidneys, uterus, udder, ovary, testicle, adrenal gland and brain or spinal cord or their membranes; numerous lesions of tuberculosis, actinomycosis or actinobacillosis uniformly distributed throughout both lungs also afford evidence of generalization.
Caseous lymphadenitis
2.11
Carcasses and parts thereof of an animal affected with caseous lymphadenitis shall be dealt with as follows:
(a) the entire carcass shall be condemned when the disease is extensive and is not confined to the seat of primary infection, and more than one body gland is affected or is associated with emaciation or secondary change;
(b) when the disease is confined to one body gland, the quarter in which the gland is situated shall be removed and condemned and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food;
(c) the carcass may be passed for food if the disease is slight and confined to the seat of primary infection and the carcass is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Abnormal odours
2.12
(1)
Carcasses with a pronounced abnormal dietary odour, such as fish, garbage, garlic, stinkweed, shall be condemned; mildly affected carcasses may enter the chillroom for subsequent examination by the heating test.
(2)
Carcasses affected with a pronounced medicinal odour shall be condemned.
(3)
Carcasses that give off a urine or abnormal sexual odour shall be condemned, except when the odour is slight and dissipates on cooling; the disposal of carcasses permitted to go to the chillroom shall be determined by the heating test.
(4)
Carcasses that give off abnormal metabolic odours associated with febrile conditions shall be condemned; mildly affected carcasses may enter the chillroom for subsequent examination by the heating test.
Pigmentation
2.13
(1)
Livers extensively affected with carotenosis (yellow carotenoid pigmentation of fat and liver, and not the natural yellow colour of the fat of certain breeds of cattle) shall be condemned.
(2)
Carcasses affected with endogenous pigmentation (natural to the body but present in abnormally high amounts of concentration) shall be dealt with as follows:
(a) when complete removal of melanosis (black pigmentation) cannot be accomplished, the affected carcass, organ or part shall be condemned;
(b) when complete removal of osteohaemochromatosis (reddish to chocolate brown discoloration of bone, liver and spleen of cattle and swine) cannot be accomplished, the affected carcass, organ or part shall be condemned;
(c) when complete removal of ochronosis (dark brown or black discoloration of cartilage ligaments, tendons and joint capsules) cannot be accomplished, the affected carcass, organs or part shall be condemned;
(d) when xanthosis (brown atrophy of musculature) is confined to organs or parts, the affected parts shall be removed and condemned; when the condition results in the extensive discoloration of the musculature of the body, the carcass shall be condemned;
(e) when icterus (yellow discoloration of all body tissues by bile pigment) is associated with parenchymatous degeneration of organs, the result of infection or intoxication or intense yellow discoloration, the carcass shall be condemned; where discoloration is slight and disappears on chilling, the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food; the final inspection for this discoloration shall be completed under natural light.
Neoplasm
2.14
(1)
Any organ or part affected with a benign tumour shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if the carcass as a whole is not affected and is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
(2)
Any individual organ or part shall be removed and condemned if it is affected with a malignant neoplasm, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if the neoplasm is primary, without evidence of metastasis, or interference of normal body functions, and if there is no secondary change (serous infiltration or the like) and the carcass is otherwise healthy and fit for food; the entire carcass shall be condemned if the neoplasm is extensive, affects muscles, skeleton or body lymph glands or if there is evidence of metastasis.
Swine erysipelas
2.15
Carcasses affected with acute or generalized swine erysipelas shall be condemned.
Diamond skin disease
2.16
Carcasses of hogs affected with diamond skin disease shall be condemned; but if the disease is localized and not associated with systemic change (involvement of body glands), the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Arthritis and polyarthritis
2.17
(1)
Carcasses affected with arthritis or polyarthritis shall be condemned; but if the condition is localized and not associated with systemic change, the affected joints and corresponding lymph glands shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food; the joints shall be carefully removed in order to avoid contamination of the remainder of the carcass.
(2)
Carcasses affected with arthritis or polyarthritis characterized by the presence of periarticular abscesses, which may or may not be associated with similar suppurative foci within the epiphyses of the bones, shall be condemned in cases manifesting suppurative lesions in more than one joint; in other cases the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Oedema
2.18
A carcass affected with oedema (an abnormal amount of body fluid, usually associated with primary conditions, the principal types of which are hydrothorax, ascites, anasarca) shall be condemned, except where the condition is slight and confined to the seat of origin, in which case the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food; but such remainder shall, before being passed as food, be held for 12 hours in the chillroom and reinspected.
Omphalophlebitis
2.19
Carcasses affected with omphalophlebitis shall be condemned when there is evidence of systemic involvement; in other cases the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Mammitis
2.20
Carcasses affected with mammitis shall be condemned if there is evidence of systemic involvement; in other cases the affected parts shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Sapraemia and toxaemia
2.21
Carcasses affected with sapraemia or toxaemia shall be condemned.
Suffocation
2.22
Carcasses of animals that have suffocated shall be condemned.
Abrasions, bruises, abscesses, adhesions
2.23
(1)
All slight, well limited abrasions, bruises, abscesses and adhesions occurring in parts other than heads, tongues and internal organs without lymph gland involvement shall be carefully excised, leaving only sound normal tissue.
(2)
Any organ or part of a carcass that is badly bruised, affected with an abscess, suppurating sore or adhesion shall be condemned.
(3)
When the lesions affect the whole carcass, the carcass shall be condemned.
(4)
Livers affected with dry adhesions may be used for animal food.
Mange, scab, ringworm
2.24
Carcasses of animals affected with mange, scab or ringworm in the advanced stages, showing emaciation, cachexia or extensive inflammation of the flesh, shall be condemned; when the disease is slight, the affected portions shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food.
Parasites
2.25
(1)
Carcasses, edible organs and parts of carcasses showing evidence of infestation with parasites not transmissible to man shall be dealt with as follows:
(a) if the lesions are localized in such manner and are of such character that the parasites and the lesions caused by them may be readily removed, the affected portion of the carcass, organ or part of the carcass shall be removed and condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food;
(b) if an organ or part of a carcass shows numerous lesions caused by parasites, or if the character of the infestation is such that complete extirpation of the parasites and lesions is difficult and uncertain to accomplish, or if the parasite infestation or invasion renders the organ or part in any way unfit for food, the affected organ or part shall be condemned, and the remainder of the carcass may be passed for food if it is otherwise healthy and fit for food;
(c) if parasites are found to be distributed in a carcass in such a manner or to be of such a character that their removal and the removal of the lesions caused by them is impracticable, the carcass shall be condemned;
(d) if the infestation is excessive, the carcass shall be condemned;
(e) in the case of beef, calf and swine livers (except livers affected with cestede cysts), if the infestation is not extensive, they may be passed for animal food if they are treated as provided in this regulation.
(2)
Pork and products containing pork shall be treated as prescribed in this regulation.
Tapeworm cysts (Cysticercus bovis)
2.26
(1)
Carcasses affected with Cysticercus bovis or Cysticercus ovis shall be dealt with as prescribed in this section.
(2)
Prior to inspection, the tongue shall be detached sufficiently from the head bones, by an employee of the establishment, to allow a proper inspection to be made of the internal muscles of mastication; these muscles shall be inspected after incising them in such manner as to split the muscles in a plane parallel with the lower jawbone; the masseter muscles also shall be incised, splitting the entire external layer between the outer and intermediate fasciae.
(3)
The heart shall be prepared and inspected by one of the following methods:
(a) the surface of the heart shall be examined, and a longitudinal incision made extending from base to apex through the wall of the left ventricle and the interventricular septum, after which the cut surfaces and the inner surfaces of the ventricles shall be examined and incised by at least 4 incisions;
(b) after the external surface of the heart has been inspected, the operator of the establishment shall prepare the organ for further inspection by severing its attachments and cutting through the interventricular septum and such other tissues as will permit him to evert the organ completely; the inspector shall then examine the interior surfaces and make not more than 4 deep, lengthwise incisions into the muscles of the septum and left ventricular wall, unless the presence of cysts is suspected, when more incisions shall be made; care shall be taken not to cut completely through the walls of hearts to be passed without restriction; if necessary to maintain the identity of hearts, the establishment shall provide consecutively numbered tags and appropriately mark the carcasses and hearts.
(4)
On final inspection of affected carcasses, the external and internal muscles of mastication, the heart and the muscular portion of the diaphragm, including its pillars, should be carefully and thoroughly sliced to ensure the finding of all cysts; prior to the inspection of the diaphragm, its peritoneum shall be removed; the tongue shall be thoroughly sliced and all parts closely examined for cysts; in addition to the foregoing, the muscles of the aesophagus, the exposed muscles and cut muscular surfaces of the split carcass shall be examined; incisions may be made to expose additional surfaces for examination, but unnecessary mutilation of the carcasses which may be passed shall be avoided.
(5)
Carcasses of cattle (including the viscera) infested with Cysticercus bovis shall be condemned if the infestation is excessive or if the meat is watery or discolored; carcasses shall be considered excessively infested if incisions in various parts of the musculature expose on most of the cut surfaces 2 or more cysts within an area the size of the palm of the hand.
(6)
A carcass in which infestation with Cysticercus bovis is limited to one dead and degenerated cyst may be passed for food after removal and condemnation of the cyst.
(7)
Carcasses of cattle showing a slight or moderate infestation other than that indicated in subsection (6) but not so extensive as indicated in subsection (5), as determined by a careful examination of the heart, muscles of mastication, diaphragm and its pillars, tongue and portions of the carcass rendered visible by the process of dressing, may be passed for food after removal and condemnation of the cysts, with the surrounding tissues; such carcasses and parts shall be tagged with a "Held" tag and shall be held in cold storage at a temperature not higher than 15°  F. continuously for a period of not less than 20 days; as an alternative to retention in cold storage as herein provided, such carcasses and parts may be heated throughout to a temperature of at least 140°  F.
(8)
The inspection for Cysticercus bovis may be omitted in the case of calves under 6 weeks old; the routine inspection of calves over 6 weeks old for Cysticercus bovis may be limited to a careful examination of the surface of the heart and such other surfaces as are rendered visible by the process of dressing.
(9)
Carcasses of hogs extensively affected with tapeworm cysts (Cysticercus cellulosae) shall be condemned.
Miscellaneous
2.27
(1)
Livers designated as "telangiectatic", "sawdust" or "angiomatosis" or areas of dry adhesion may be disposed of as animal or fish food under conditions prescribed by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
(2)
Veterinary Inspectors and Meat Inspectors are authorized to deal as their judgment may direct with abnormal conditions not dealt with in this Division.
Division 3 - Duties of Inspectors and Methods of Inspection
Powers of inspectors
3.01
Every inspector appointed by the minister has the powers set out in section 7 of the Act.
Responsibilities of inspectors
3.02
Inspectors shall be responsible for the continuous supervision of operations in an establishment, including normal temporary periods of cessation.
Inspection reports
3.03
Inspectors of establishments shall furnish such reports as may be required by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Reports and recommendations of sanitary conditions
3.04
Inspectors of any establishment shall recommend to the management any desirable improvement in sanitary conditions, and shall report regularly to the Chief Veterinary Inspector as to the general observance of sanitary requirements.
Inspection legend stamp
3.05
Inspectors shall have custody of and be responsible for the inspection legend stamp.
Samples for analysis
3.06
Inspectors shall, when deemed advisable, procure samples of any meat, products or meat byproduct. Every such sample shall be properly packaged, labelled and marked with a description of the same, the inspector's name, the date and the establishment number, and shall be submitted as directed by the Chief Veterinary Inspector. Should the analysis on further inspection prove the sample to be unfit for use, the entire carcass, portion or lot from which the sample was taken shall be disposed of in accordance with this regulation.
Inspection of stored foods
3.07
Inspectors shall examine carefully all foods, whether meats or other products, stored in coolers or freezers of establishments, and furnish the Chief Veterinary Inspector every 6 months with a report as to whether or not there are in storage any foods which have been in storage for more than one year.
Inspection of animals prior to slaughter
3.08
(1)
Inspectors shall examine every animal intended for slaughter prior to its entry to the killing floor. Animals found to be diseased or suspected of being diseased shall be tagged in the right ear with a metal tag bearing the words "B.C. Held," and shall be killed separately at the end of the regular kill, or otherwise as the inspector may direct.
(2)
The inspector shall immediately notify the Chief Veterinary Inspector of the presence at any establishment of any animal affected with or showing symptoms of any contagious or infectious disease, and shall ascertain the address of the farmer-owner and the point whence the animal was shipped, and shall take such action as may be required by the Act.
(3)
Inspectors shall not permit slaughter of animals in an advanced stage of pregnancy. Such animals shall be tagged "B.C. Held" and shall not be slaughtered until at least 10 days after parturition, but may be removed for stock or dairy purposes under written permission of the inspector and after removal of the "B.C. Held" tag if they have not been exposed to contagious or infectious diseases and only in conformance with the Act and the regulation made thereunder.
Inspection of carcasses at time of slaughter
3.09
Inspectors shall make a thorough examination at the time of slaughter of all carcasses and portions thereof. If the examination reveals no grounds for detaining or condemning any carcass or portion thereof, inspectors shall pass and mark the same as required by section 3.29 hereof.
Tagging of detained carcasses
3.10
Any inspector who may require any carcass, portion or product thereof to be detained for further examination or action shall attach firmly thereto a green lettered paper tag, numbered and bearing thereon the words "B.C. Held," and shall have such carcass, portion or product immediately placed in the "detention" room or space. When the inspector who makes the first examination does not make the final examination, he shall furnish the inspector responsible for the final examination with the description of the carcass, portion or product thereof, the reason for which it is held and the number of its "B.C. Held" tag. If on final examination the carcass, portion or product be found fit for food, the inspector shall remove the tag and permit such carcass, portion or product thereof to be marked with the inspection legend stamp. If, however, any carcass, portion or product thereof be at any time found unfit for food, the inspector shall firmly attach thereto a black
lettered paper tag, numbered and bearing thereon the words "B.C. Condemned." Such carcass, portion or product thereof shall be immediately tanked or placed in the "condemned" room or space for final disposition. Inspectors shall be responsible for all locks and keys for "detention" and "condemned" rooms, compartments or spaces.
"Held" carcasses
3.11
Carcasses showing diseased or injured portions which cannot be readily removed at the time of slaughter shall be "held" until chilled, to be dealt with as the inspector may decide, after condemnation or rejection of the affected portion.
Rejected carcasses
3.12
An inspector shall attach a numbered red lettered paper tag bearing thereon the words "B.C. Rejected" to any carcass, portion or product thereof which has been found on inspection or reinspection to be unfit for food unless sterilized. Any carcass or portion marked "B.C. Rejected" may, after removal of all diseased and adjacent tissue, be rendered into lard or tallow, or sterilized before use as a food product.
Condemned carcasses
3.13
An inspector shall place a numbered metal tag bearing the words "B.C Condemned" in the right ear of any animal found dead or in a dying condition on the premises of any establishment. Such tag shall be removed only by the inspector supervising the final disposition of the carcass.
Tanking or disposal of condemned carcasses
3.14
Inspectors shall supervise the tanking or other disposition of condemned carcasses, portions and products, and shall seal all tanks in which condemned material has been placed. Seals of any such tanks shall be broken only when an inspector is satisfied that the process of tanking has rendered impossible the use of the contents for food.
Materials used for tanking
3.15
Inspectors may use, in connection with tanking operations or for disposition of condemned carcasses, portions or products thereof, any colouring or denaturing agent approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Tuberculosis
3.16
Inspectors shall condemn any carcass, portion or product thereof contaminated by contact with tuberculosus lesions or the contents thereof.
Animal food
3.17
(1)
Carcasses or portions thereof deemed fit by an inspector for general animal food only shall be kept and transported in containers labelled prominently "Inedible — For Animal Food Only." Where the inspector requires it, the general animal food shall be decharacterized in a manner approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
(2)
Carcasses or portions thereof deemed fit by an inspector for general animal food may, at the discretion of the inspector, be consigned directly to the purchasers' premises, without labelling the container or decharacterization.
(3)
Abscessed beef livers and sheep and lamb livers that are condemned shall not be designated for general animal food purposes. Condemned hog livers may be designated for general animal food purposes, depending upon the condition of the liver.
Refusal to inspect or permit removal of unfit carcasses
3.18
The inspector of any establishment may refuse inspection and forbid removal from such establishment of any carcass, portion or product thereof which has been slaughtered, prepared and processed under conditions which violate any of this regulation, and such action shall be reported immediately to the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Seizure and detention of carcasses in violation of regulation
3.19
Inspectors may seize and detain any carcass, portion or product thereof which they have reason to believe has been dealt with in violation of this regulation, and shall place thereon a numbered "B.C. Held" tag.
Seizure and detention of carcasses transported in violation of regulation
3.20
Inspectors shall seize and detain any carcass, portion or product thereof that has been shipped or transported by a farmer or other person in respect to which they have reason to believe that the requirements of this regulation have not been observed. Carcasses, portions or products thereof so detained shall be marked by the inspector with a numbered "B.C. Held" tag and shall not be moved without the authority of an inspector.
Storage and tagging of detained carcasses
3.21
(1)
A "B.C. Held" tag shall be used whenever it may be deemed necessary by an inspector, elsewhere than in an establishment under inspection, to seize or detain or to control or direct the movement of any carcass, portion or product thereof. When the "B.C. Held" tag is affixed to the carcass, portion or product thereof, the inspector shall retain the detachable numbered portion, and shall at the same time issue to the owner of the carcass, portion or product thereof, or to his representative or agent, or to the person then in charge of that to which the "B.C. Held" tag has been affixed, the official form of detention (Form M.I. 7). One copy of this form bearing the signature of the recipient of the original form shall be forwarded to the Veterinary Inspector together with the necessary report of the inspector's action.
(2)
On the order of an inspector, the owner of the establishment on which a carcass, portion or product was seized shall
(a) permit the carcass, portion or product seized to be stored on the establishment, and
(b) ensure that any carcass, portion or product seized and stored on the establishment is not removed without the approval of an inspector.
[am. B.C. Reg. 221/83, s. 1.]
Entry after inspection
3.22
Inspectors shall, after inspection and approval, permit entry into any establishment of
(a) any carcass, portion or product thereof which bears the British Columbia inspection legend stamp or the Canada inspection legend stamp,
(b) dressed carcasses having the head, heart, lungs and liver naturally attached, and in the case of animals of the bovine species received at abbatoirs licensed in the prescribed area, the hide must also accompany the carcass to place of inspection.
(c) unmarked carcasses or portions shipped from another establishment under section 3.25 of this Division or under the Canada
Meat Inspection Act
, and
(d) carcasses of lambs or sheep of any age or of calves not more than 3 months old having heart, lungs and liver naturally attached.
Carcasses, portions or products thereof not specifically indicated in this section shall be admitted to an establishment only after permission has been granted by the inspector.
Designated entrances to establishments
3.23
Carcasses, portions or products thereof shall be admitted to establishments only through such entrances as are designated by the inspector for that purpose and under such conditions as he may approve.
Admittance of undrawn poultry for processing
3.24
Inspectors shall admit to an establishment for processing undrawn poultry with the head and feet attached. Drawn poultry must be accompanied by the appropriate certificate issued under this regulation or under the Canada
Meat Inspection Act
.
Certification of carcasses fit for food
3.25
Inspectors shall mark with the inspection legend stamp or in accordance with section 3.29 hereof every carcass, portion or product thereof found to be fit for food, except those to be shipped direct to an establishment for further processing or cure. Where fats, scraps, small portions and unmarked cuts are to be shipped to another establishment for further processing or curing, an inspector at the establishment of origin shall complete in triplicate a certificate as follows:
To establishment ..................................(Name) .....................................................(Number)
Address .......................................................................(Street) .....................................(City)
Date.......................................
To the Inspector:
I hereby certify that the meats below described are from carcasses which have passed inspection under the provision of the
Meat Inspection Act
and regulation thereunder, and that they have been handled in a proper and sanitary manner, and that no meats or meat food products, other than those which have passed the said inspection, are included in the shipment hereunder described.
Description of unmarked portions or products .....................................................................
Number of containers or packages .......................................................................................
Weight .............................................
(Signed) .................................................(Inspector)
Establishment of origin ......................................(Name) .......................................(Number)
Address .............................................................(Street) .....................................(Post Office)
One copy of the certificate shall be sent directly to the Veterinary Inspector by the inspector of the establishment of origin. One copy of the certificate shall be retained on file at the establishment of origin. The remaining copy of the certificate shall accompany the shipment to its destination, where, upon the production of the certificate in the above form, the inspector may allow the entrance of the listed products to the establishment, where they shall be carefully and rigidly reinspected and dealt with as the inspector shall direct. Under no consideration shall meats enter the establishment unless the inspector has been notified and the required certificate produced.
Reinspection of carcasses
3.26
Inspectors may at any time reinspect any carcass, portion or product thereof in an establishment. If upon such reinspection any carcass, portion or product thereof is found to be unfit for food, it shall be dealt with and disposed of as provided in this regulation.
Portions of carcasses not to be used for food
3.27
(1)
The genital system, including bladders, and the large intestines (black gut) shall not be used for food. Small intestines and stomachs may be used for food, provided they are healthy and thoroughly cleaned and washed by equipment installed for that purpose.
(2)
Inspectors may permit the shipment from an establishment of ovaries, pituitary glands or other portions from approved carcasses intended for medicinal or manufacturing purposes, provided that the package or containers of these portions are distinctly marked with the name of the portion and with the words "For Medicinal Purposes" or "For Manufacturing Purposes," or words of similar and applicable import.
[am. B.C. Reg. 221/83, s. 2.]
Paper in contact with meat
3.28
The use of paper in direct contact with trimmings, organs and cuts frozen in blocks is prohibited, unless the paper is of a kind which does not disintegrate from exposure to the moisture from products but remains intact so that it can be readily and completely removed from the products when defrosted. Paper that may impart to products any chemical or other objectionable substances used in its manufacture shall not be used.
Inspection legend stamp
3.29
(1)
All carcasses that have passed inspection shall have placed thereon impressions of the inspection legend stamp on each quarter. If the carcasses are cut in the establishment, there shall be one stamp on each primal cut.
(2)
Lambs shall show thereon 4 impressions of the inspection legend stamp, one on each quarter.
Parotid salivary glands
3.30
Parotid salivary glands shall be removed from cheek meat destined for use in an establishment.
Hearts
3.31
Hearts shall be opened or inverted and washed before being placed in coolers or processed for any purpose, or permitted to leave the plant.
Hypertrophied skin
3.32
Hypertrophied skin shall be removed from the carcasses of swine before the carcasses are marked or shipped from the establishment.
Heads
3.33
To facilitate inspection, heads intended for edible purposes shall be split.
Tongues and attachments
3.34
The larynx, epiglottis and tonsils shall be removed from all tongues. Mucous membrane shall be removed from tongues before these are packed in cans, jars, glass or other hermetically sealed containers.
Mucous membrane
3.35
Mucous membrane shall not be an ingredient of prepared meats or prepared meat byproducts.
Kidneys
3.36
Kidneys shall be freely sectioned and thoroughly soaked and washed before being used in the manufacture of a meat byproduct. They shall not be placed in the lard tank.
Sausage casings
3.37
Crowns shall be removed from all hog bungs used for sausage casings.
Bladders
3.38
Bladders from approved carcasses to be used as food containers shall first be emptied and flushed with water, inverted and placed in brine for at least 48 hours, and then rinsed before being filled.
Sliming of casings
3.39
The sliming of casings shall be completed within 24 hours after removal from the carcasses.
Heads and feet
3.40
Heads and feet to be used in the manufacture of lard or meat food products shall be thoroughly cleaned, and shall be completely free of hair or scurf. Heads shall be split, and brains, eyes, eardrums, teeth and turbinated and ethmoid bones shall be removed. Hoofs shall be removed. Gullets, trachea and bronchi shall not be used in the manufacture of lard or edible tallow unless they have first been split, washed and cleaned to the satisfaction of an inspector.
Mammary glands
3.41
(1)
Lactating mammary glands and diseased mammary glands of cattle, sheep, swine and goats shall be removed without opening the milk ducts or sinuses. If pus or other objectionable material is permitted to come in contact with the carcass, the parts of the carcass thus contaminated shall be removed and condemned.
(2)
Lactating mammary glands of swine and all mammary glands that have been active shall be removed and condemned.
Division 4 - Labels, Markings, and Containers
Label requirements — general
4.01
Labels on markings of meat and meat food products prepared in establishments shall comply with the requirements in sections 4.02 to 4.16.
Carcasses subject to inspection
4.02
All carcasses, portions or products of carcasses prepared for food and intended for packing in cans or similar receptacles, or in any package, shall be subject to inspection during the whole course of preparation and packing.
Cans must be approved before use
4.03
All cans or receptacles intended for the packaging of any meats or meat food products must be approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector before such containers may be used for packaging such meats or meat food products.
Labels must be approved before use
4.04
All labels to be used on any can or package intended for the packaging of any meats or meat food products must first be approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector before such can or package may be used for the packaging of such meats or meat food products.
Meaning of inspection legend stamp
4.05
The inspection legend stamp is a Provincial Government mark and indicates that the carcass, portion or product thereof so marked was, at the time of marking, sound, healthy and fit for food, and that the products were manufactured under sanitary conditions.
Inspection legend stamp
4.06
(1)
The inspection legend stamp shall consist of the words "B.C. Passed" between 2 concentric ovals, in the centre of which is an imprint of the arms of the Province of British Columbia which shall be a facsimile of the authorized pattern. To the left of the arms is the abbreviation "Est.," and to the right is a space for the establishment number in the form shown below:
The inner oval may be omitted from the imprint effect by means of a metal stamp.
(2) 						The words "B.C. Passed" and the arms with or without any establishment number are hereby declared to be a British Columbia Government mark.
(3)
No carcass, portion or product thereof, no package or container nor any article whatsoever bearing the inspection legend stamp may be disposed of except as provided in this regulation or with the authority of the ministry.
(4)
The managements of establishments will be held responsible for the due protection of all meats or meat food products marked with the inspection legend stamp.
Stamp must not be altered
4.07
The inspection legend stamp shall not be altered in any way. It shall be separate and shall not form an integral part of any special pattern or design shown on any label.
Stamp to be applied by inspector
4.08
The inspection legend stamp or the words "B.C. Passed" or any word or words of like meaning or import shall be applied to any carcass, portion or product thereof, or on any package containing the same, only by an inspector or other authorized person.
Stamp applies only to original contents
4.09
The inspection legend stamp shall refer only to the original contents of the package so marked. If such package is to be used again for meat or meat food products, the inspection legend stamp shall first be destroyed.
Stamp used for advertising must be approved
4.10
The inspection legend stamp shall not be used for advertising purposes without the approval of the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
When stamp must not be used
4.11
The inspection legend stamp shall not be used on any inedible, rejected or condemned product.
Containers for animal food
4.12
Containers for inedible products for general animal food purposes shall be plainly marked with the words "Inedible — For Animal Food Only."
Label requirements — details
4.13
(1)
All cans and containers in which meat or meat products are prepared or shipped shall be approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector. The label shall bear the name and address of the packer or first dealer, a true and correct description of the contents, the net weight of the contents or volume in fluid ounces, and the inspection legend stamp. The penalty clause "When the contents are removed the inspection legend must be destroyed. Penalty for improper use." must appear in close proximity to the inspection legend together with the words "B.C. Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food".
(2)
Where the container is a master container, the name of the specific product shall be shown to describe the contents. Where the container is a utility container then the words "Meat Food Products" or "Assorted Meat Products" may be used to describe the contents.
(3)
Where it is impossible to permanently attach a label to a can or container a shipping tag may be attached to the package. This shipping tag shall contain all the information required in section 4.10 (1) or (2) of this Division. The inspection legend stamp with penalty clause may be printed on the reverse side of the tag, but the inspection legend stamp shall not be separated from the penalty clause.
Storage
4.14
All labelled cans or containers shall be stored in a bondroom and under the control of the inspector.
Preparation and shipping of edible meat
4.15
All edible meat and meat products must be prepared and shipped in cans or containers approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector and manufactured for the use of the establishment.
List of ingredients
4.16
Except as otherwise provided by the Chief Veterinary Inspector, the list of ingredients in a prepared meat product shall appear as part of or in addition to the true name of the product, and shall show the common or usual name of the ingredients arranged in order of their predominance, except that spices may be designated as "spice" or "flavourings"; the name of an ingredient shall not be a collective name, but shall be a specific name, as, for example, beef, pork, beef tripe, pork snouts.
Division 5 - Establishments
Licensing and inspection
5.01
(1)
The minister may, upon receipt of a formal application, approve and issue a licence to a livestock slaughtering establishment to operate within the scope of the appropriate classification outlined in section 5.21 of this regulation.
(2)
The minister shall assign a number to each establishment.
(3)
When establishments have one or more branches, the minister shall assign to each branch the same number with the addition of a serial letter.
(4)
The fee for veterinary inspection made
(a) between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on a weekday from Monday to Friday shall be $16.04, and
(b) at any other time on a weekday or on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday shall be $19.02
for each hour of an inspector's time the inspection requires.
(5)
Inspection service, in abattoirs licensed under the Act, may be provided for a 5 day normal work week.
[am. B.C. Regs. 255/80; 98/81; 45/82; 66/83; 221/83, s. 3; 38/84; 54/85; 58/86; 71/87; 112/88; 355/89; 120/90.]
Inspectors
5.02
Veterinary Inspectors or Meat Inspectors must be appointed or approved by the minister.
Animal and carcass inspection
5.03
Every animal slaughtered and every carcass, portion or product thereof prepared for any purpose in an establishment shall be subject to inspection during the whole course of preparation and packing, and shall be dealt with as required in this regulation.
Construction and equipment
5.04
(1)
Abattoirs, packing or slaughter houses shall conform to the requirements of this regulation with regard to construction, sanitation and equipment before inspection is approved therein. The construction and equipment necessities shall be provided in the form laid down by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
(2)
Blueprints shall be furnished in duplicate showing the plan of buildings, equipment, yards, drainage and such other details as may be deemed necessary when application is made for inspection or when alterations or additions are planned and at any other time required by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Operational supervision by inspector
5.05
The inspector shall be kept fully informed by the management of all details regarding the actual operation of an establishment, and no operation shall be carried on without the knowledge and supervision of the inspector.
Yards and pens
5.06
Yards or pens attached to an establishment shall not be used for the growth and fattening of animals (herein called a "feed lot"), nor shall offal or other refuse be used for feeding purposes on the premises. A feed lot may be constructed and operated on the premises, provided it is not closer than 300 feet to the establishment, and provided all animals fed are slaughtered in the establishment.
Artificial refrigeration
5.07
Artificial refrigeration operated by mechanical means of a type and capacity adequate to the needs of an establishment shall be regarded as essential equipment, to be installed before inspection is approved.
Boiling water and steam
5.08
Suitable provision for boiling water and (or) steam from a boiler or steam generator of capacity adequate to the needs of the establishment shall be regarded as essential equipment, to be installed before inspection is approved.
Information to be given inspector
5.09
Packers shall upon request furnish to the inspector accurate information regarding receipts of stock, shipments and products on hand. They shall also furnish to the Chief Veterinary Inspector such information regarding processes of manufacture and other matters of a like nature as may be deemed reasonable and necessary in the public interest.
Removal of animals
5.10
No animal which has entered the yards or pens of an establishment, or which has entered a feed lot adjacent thereto and (or) operated in conjunction therewith, shall be removed without permission in writing from the Chief Veterinary Inspector, and such permission may be given subject to the conditions of the Act. Establishments shall provide suitable facilities for separating healthy animals from those showing symptoms of or suspected of being affected with disease.
Detention rooms
5.11
Special rooms, compartments or spaces, to be known as the "detention" or "condemned" room, compartment or space, shall be provided in establishments for the accommodation of carcasses, portions or products thereof marked "B.C. Held" or "B.C. Condemned" respectively. Such rooms, compartments or spaces shall be well lighted and so constructed as to facilitate cleansing and disinfection. All doors thereto shall be fitted for locks. Such locks and keys shall be in the custody of the inspector.
Carcasses must be readily identifiable
5.12
No carcass, portion or product thereof shall be removed or so placed or treated by an employee of an establishment as to prevent its ready identification.
Tanks for inedible carcasses
5.13
Except in the case where the Chief Veterinary Inspector has issued a permit authorizing the transfer of condemned carcasses or materials directly to an inedible rendering plant registered under the
Meat Inspection Act
of Canada, every establishment shall be equipped with facilities satisfactory to the Chief Veterinary Inspector for the tanking of all condemned portions and products, as well as diseased carcasses, portions and products thereof. Tanks for this purpose shall be placed and operated so that no odours or fumes shall pervade any room wherein carcasses, portions or products thereof are prepared or stored for food purposes, and these tanks shall be entirely separate and detached from any pipe or conduit connection with any pipe, tank or conduit in which edible products are prepared, conveyed or stored. No employee of an establishment shall seal or break the seal of any tank in use for tanking unless authorized by an inspector. Tankrooms
must have a suitable entrance, not leading directly into "edible" rooms, for the purpose of removal of contents of tanks.
Meat byproducts — prohibitions
5.14
Black gut and organs or portions of the genital system shall not be used in establishments as ingredients of meat byproducts.
Prepared meats
5.15
Sausages, canned or prepared meats, meat byproducts and portions intended for cure shall be prepared only from carcasses or portions which have been marked with the inspection legend stamp, or which have been admitted to an establishment in accordance with this regulation, and which, on reinspection, are found fit for food.
Drugs, preservatives, etc.
5.16
No food shall contain any deleterious substance, nor, except as permitted by this regulation, shall any drug or preservative be used in the preparation thereof.
Responsibility for lost stamps
5.17
Packers shall be responsible for the cost of brass inspection legend stamps lost by employees.
Container and equipment materials
5.18
Containers or equipment made of lead, zinc, copper or brass which may come in contact with meat or meat food products shall not be used in any establishment.
Floor and wall racks
5.19
Properly constructed floor and wall racks shall be provided, when necessary, for the protection of products.
Emergency slaughter
5.20
In the event that an emergency slaughter for humane reasons is performed at an establishment in the absence of an inspector, the carcass shall be hung with pluck and head attached, and in the case of an animal of the bovine species slaughtered in the prescribed area under the
Livestock Identification Act
, the hide shall remain attached at the neck.
Classification of establishments
5.21
There shall be the following classification of establishments:
(a) Class A: establishments in which animals are slaughtered, and in which carcasses, portions or products thereof are stored, and where processing of any kind is carried on;
(b) Class B: establishments in which animals are slaughtered, and where carcasses, portions or products thereof are prepared for food and are stored, but where no processing of any kind is carried out;
(c) Class C: establishments in which carcasses, portions or products thereof are prepared for food or are stored.
Conformity with requirements
5.22
(1)
An inspector may require that the operator of an establishment bring the establishment into conformity with the provisions of the Act or regulation and may issue a Requisition by Inspector setting out the requirements necessary to be performed.
(2)
If, in the opinion of the inspector, the requirements set out in the Requisition by Inspector have not been met within a reasonable time, the inspector shall notify the Chief Veterinary Inspector, who may withdraw the inspection of the establishment.
(3)
The decision of the Chief Veterinary Inspector to withdraw inspection of the establishment may be appealed to the minister, whose decision shall be final.
Licence suspension or cancellation
5.23
The minister may suspend or cancel any licence issued under this regulation and withdraw inspection of any establishment on the recommendation of the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Division 6 - Slaughter by Farmers
Inspection of farm slaughtered animals
6.01
A farmer in a meat inspection area who slaughters an animal on his own premises and requires inspection must present the whole carcass, with head and pluck attached, or in the case of the bovine species the hide must be attached to the carcass or a side or quarter if the inspection is to be carried out in the prescribed area under the
Livestock Identification Act
, to an inspector at an establishment under regular inspection. Carcasses may be halved or quartered, provided all parts of the carcass are presented and the head and pluck remain attached to one of the quarters.
Presentation of carcass
6.02
The inspector may refuse to inspect a carcass or a portion thereof if it is not presented in a clean sanitary manner.
Killing and storage in sanitary quarters
6.03
The inspector may refuse to inspect a carcass or a portion thereof if it is not killed and stored in clean sanitary quarters on the farm.
Division 7 - Sanitation
Lighting and ventilation
7.01
Every establishment shall be adequately lighted and ventilated. All equipment shall be of such material and construction as will facilitate thorough cleansing. All operations shall be conducted with strict cleanliness.
Room and facilities cleansing
7.02
All rooms in which carcasses, portions or products thereof are prepared or placed shall be scraped, scrubbed or painted, as may be deemed necessary by the inspector, and all facilities necessary for cleansing shall be provided.
Moisture avoidance
7.03
All rooms shall be kept, as far as possible, free from steam and vapour. Chillrooms and refrigerating rooms shall be kept free from excessive moisture.
Contamination prevention
7.04
No carcass, portion or product thereof and no ingredient used in the production of food shall be exposed to contamination or deterioration. All implements, utensils, equipment and containers used in any way in the preparation of food products shall be cleansed before use to the satisfaction of an inspector.
Separation of preparation areas
7.05
All parts of an establishment used for rendering or preparing inedible products shall be entirely separate from those used in rendering or preparing edible products. Except for conveyance of material from the "edible" to the "inedible" parts of the establishment and for pipes or chutes incidental to water or heating purposes, there shall be no connection between those parts of the establishment used for the protection of edible and inedible products, and each part shall have a separate entrance.
Blueprints and plans
7.06
Copies in duplicate of blueprints or plans showing all pipelines, sumps, tanks, valves, pumps, covered or exposed, existing or proposed, shall be forwarded to the Chief Veterinary Inspector for approval.
Yards and pens
7.07
All yards, pens or feed lots used in connection with an establishment shall be suitably constructed and equipped and regularly cleaned.
Lavatories and toilets
7.08
Dressing room, lavatory and toilet accommodation shall be adequate, fully equipped and sanitary, with direct outside light and ventilation, or forced ventilation, and shall be entirely apart from any room or compartment used for the storage or production of food. Forced air ventilation without direct outside light may be accepted for lavatory and toilet rooms if considered necessary and satisfactory. Ample artificial light shall be provided for all such accommodation.
Communicable diseases
7.09
No person suffering from tuberculosis or other communicable disease shall be engaged in handling or preparing foods, and any employee may be required to produce medical certification of health at any time if requested by the inspector. Employees shall observe such general rules as to sanitation as may be deemed necessary by the inspector.
Employee coverings
7.10
Coverings used by employees to protect their clothing or persons shall be of material easily cleaned.
Fly screening
7.11
All outside doors and windows shall be screened, and fly traps placed wherever required by the inspector. Accumulation of flybreeding material in or around the plant premises or yards of an establishment is prohibited.
Catch basins
7.12
Catch basins shall not be placed in rooms in which edible products are prepared or handled.
Bovine blood use
7.13
Bovine blood only may be used in food products and shall not be defibrinated by hand.
Knife scabbards
7.14
Knife scabbards shall be of metal or other impervious material and so designed as to facilitate thorough cleansing and sterilization.
Dog and cat exclusion from premises
7.15
Dogs and cats shall be excluded from establishments.
Vermin proofing
7.16
(1)
Every practicable precaution, including vermin proofing of buildings, shall be taken to maintain establishments free of rats, mice, flies, cockroaches and other vermin, but only those poisons approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector shall be used for their eradication.
(2)
Materials, agents, compounds, paints, additives, disinfectants, etc. used in abattoirs shall be approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Sterilization of knives and utensils
7.17
All knives, saws or other utensils which have been in contact with diseased or infected material shall be immediately sterilized.
Shipping containers
7.18
Containers used for shipment of boneless meats shall be of such type and material as will afford adequate protection for the meats shipped in them.
Division 8 - Transportation
Vehicles used for transporting meat
8.01
All vehicles in which carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof are transported shall be clean and sanitary, and shall be suitably enclosed or covered to the satisfaction of the inspector. All vehicles shall be of tight construction and have tight fitting loading doors or tail gates.
Packaging materials
8.02
The use of cardboard containers, wrapping in wax and brown paper, or, in the case of sides and quarters of beef, paper and stochinettes is required, except that carcasses, halves or quarters being shipped between plants must be properly suspended from hooks in the transporting vehicle and thus need not be wrapped.
Refrigeration
8.03
All meat or meat products being held for distribution must be placed under refrigeration.
Cleaning of vehicles before transport of meat
8.04
Vehicles which have been used for the transportation of any insanitary materials shall not be used for the transporting of carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof without first having been thoroughly cleansed and completely disinfected with steam or hot water to the satisfaction of an inspector.
Permits for transporting meat
8.05
All persons transporting carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof within any area established under Division 10 of this regulation may be required to obtain a permit annually on or before December 31 from the minister, except in the case of a farmer, a recognized transportation company or firms whose establishments are under Federal or Provincial inspection.
Records and permits
8.06
(1)
All persons transporting carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof within any area established under Division 10 of this regulation shall maintain a written record of all such carcasses, portions or products thereof which have been transported and shall retain copies of all shipping bills, which shall clearly indicate the date, the material transported, the consignor and the consignee, and these shall be open to inspection at any reasonable time by an inspector appointed under the Act.
(2)
All inedible, held or condemned or uninspected carcasses, portions or products thereof, or the carcasses of animals that have died, cannot be moved into a meat inspection area or within or out of such an area except on permit given by an inspector or on an annual permit issued by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Inspectors may stop vehicles
8.07
An inspector may stop any vehicle believed to be carrying carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof and may require the driver or person in charge to make all material being transported available for convenient inspection.
Inspector may order further inspection
8.08
The inspector, upon checking any vehicle found transporting carcasses of meat, portions or products thereof, may require such vehicle to proceed, with its load as found, directly to a given point for further inspection, and for final disposition of any carcass, portion or product thereof as provided under this regulation.
Division 9 - Humane Slaughter
Application of Division
9.01
This Division shall apply to all establishments licensed under the Act and to animals named in any area established under Division 10 of this regulation.
Method of slaughter
9.02
(1)
A food animal shall not be slaughtered unless
(a) it is rendered unconscious by a method prescribed in section 9.04 of this Division immediately before slaughter, or immediately before it is hung by one or 2 legs for the purpose of slaughter, or
(b) in the case of an animal other than swine, it is slaughtered by means of a cut resulting in rapid, simultaneous and complete severance of the jugular vein and carotid arteries so as to cause immediate unconsciousness, known in Jewish ritual slaughter as "schechita."
(2)
An animal that is slaughtered in the manner specified in section 9.02 (1) (b) shall, before and during slaughter, be adequately restrained in a device or by a means approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
Hanging before slaughter
9.03
(1)
A food animal shall not be hung by one or 2 legs for the purpose of slaughter unless immediately before being hung it is rendered unconscious by a method prescribed in section 9.04 of this Division.
(2)
When an animal is hung by one or 2 legs for the purpose of slaughter, it shall be slaughtered forthwith after it has been rendered unconscious.
Methods of rendering animal unconscious
9.04
(1)
For the purposes of sections 9.02 and 9.03, a food animal may be rendered unconscious by any of the following methods:
(a) by delivering a blow to the head by means of a mechanical penetrating or non-penetrating device approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector;
(b) in the case of lambs and young calves, by a blow to the head applied by manual means;
(c) by exposure of the animals to carbon dioxide gas in such a manner as to produce a rapid unconsciousness by a procedure approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector;
(d) by the application of an electrical current to the head of the animal in such a manner as to produce immediate unconsciousness by a device approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
(2)
The Chief Veterinary Inspector may, for the purposes of development or testing and subject to conditions as he may impose, authorize an establishment to employ a method other than one prescribed in subsection (1) for rendering food animals unconscious.
Approval by Chief Veterinary Inspector
9.05
Any approval given by the Chief Veterinary Inspector under this Division may be general or particular.
Slaughterers must be physically capable
9.06
No person shall use any instrument for slaughtering or rendering unconscious unless his ability and physical conditions, at the time, qualify him to use it without inflicting unnecessary pain on the animal, or use a mechanically operated instrument in such a manner or in such circumstances or in such need of repair as to give rise to the risk of causing unnecessary pain.
Ramps and pens
9.07
(1)
Ramps or inclines used for the movement of animals leading to slaughter shall be constructed in such a manner as to provide safe ascent or descent and shall be maintained in such a manner to provide good footing for the animals.
(2)
Holding pens for animals awaiting slaughter shall have adequate ventilation and shall not be overcrowded.
(3)
Electrical prods on animals shall not be applied to the perineal region or the escutcheon.
No unnecessary pain
9.08
In preparing food animals for slaughter or in slaughtering a food animal, the animal shall not be subjected to unnecessary pain.
Division 10 - Establishment of Meat Inspection Areas
Establishment of meat inspection areas
10.01
Areas for the control of slaughtering of animals, or for the control of the slaughtering of animals other than domestic rabbits and poultry, and for the storage and sale of all meats and meat products within such areas, or for the storage and sale of all meats and meat products other than those of domestic rabbits and poultry within such areas, may be established by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and notice of the establishment of such an area shall appear in The British Columbia Gazette.
Application for establishment of area
10.02
Notwithstanding anything contained in the previous section, a municipality or regional district may make application to the minister to have the municipality or regional district established as an area for the control of the slaughtering of animals, or of the animals designated in section 10.01, within its boundaries.
Slaughtering in established areas
10.03
In areas so established, all slaughtering except that being done by a farmer shall be carried out in an establishment operating under the
Meat Inspection Act
of Canada or the
Meat Inspection Act
of the Province of British Columbia.
Storage and sale
10.04
(1)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may require that all meats and meat products, or those designated in section 10.01, stored, sold, offered for sale or present in any commercial or business premises within any such area shall be only received from establishments operating under the
Meat Inspection Act
of Canada or of British Columbia.
(2)
The provisions of subsection (1) in respect to storage shall not apply to the storage by a person in a cold storage or locker plant of meat or meat products for his own consumption or use.
Suspension or cancellation of area
10.05
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, at his discretion or on the application of a municipality or regional district, suspend or cancel any area established under this regulation, and notice of such suspension or cancellation shall appear in The British Columbia Gazette.
Appointment of inspectors
10.06
Inspectors employed to carry out the provisions of the Act and the regulation in any livestock slaughter control area shall be appointed by the minister.
Undrawn poultry
10.07
Undrawn poultry (New York dressed), slack scalded or dry picked, shall be exempt from inspection in meat inspection areas requiring the inspection of poultry. Commercial or business premises within such a meat inspection area may eviscerate undrawn poultry; provided that
(a) a separate meat block is provided exclusively for eviscerating purposes,
(b) separate knives and equipment are used for eviscerating purposes only,
(c) a hand basin with hot and cold running water and a supply of individual towels and soap are located in close proximity to the evisceration operation, and
(d) the operator of the commercial or business premises takes necessary precautions to minimize the contamination of other meat products.
[am. B.C. Reg. 282/67.]
Division 11 - Appointment of Supervising Inspector
Supervising inspector
11.01
The minister may appoint a qualified official of his ministry, who has been appointed an inspector under the Act, as Supervising Inspector to provide general supervision of the Act and regulation within the Province.
Division 12 - Inspection of Poultry
Definitions
12.01
In this Division
"carcass"
means any eviscerated poultry carcass;
"condemned"
means designated as unfit for food;
"chicken"
means squab, broilers, fryers, roasters, poulards, capons, stags;
"ducks"
means ducklings, old ducks;
"eviscerated"
as applied to a carcass means a dressed poultry carcass from which all viscera, including the respiratory, digestive, reproductive and urinary systems, as well as the head, legs at the hock joint and oil sac have been removed;
"fowl"
means hens, roosters;
"geese"
means goslings, old geese;
"guineas"
means guinea chickens, guinea fowl;
"pigeons"
means squab pigeons, pigeons;
"poultry"
means domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, guinea fowl and pheasants;
"poultry products"
means eviscerated poultry or parts thereof;
"turkeys"
means young turkey hens, young turkey toms, old turkey hens, old turkey toms;
"undrawn dressed poultry"
means poultry that has been slaughtered for human food and from which the blood and feathers have been removed.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Interpretation
12.02
The word
"giblets"
shall be applied only to signify the liver, from which the bile sac has been removed, the heart, from which the pericardial sac has been removed, and the gizzard, from which the lining and contents have been removed.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Poultry designations
12.03
In the marking and labelling of poultry products a licensee under the Act shall use only the following names: chickens, fowl, turkey, duck, geese, pigeon, guinea, and these designations shall only be applied to poultry fitting the description.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Ante-mortem inspection of poultry
12.04
(1)
In an establishment of a person licensed under the Act, where the Chief Veterinary Inspector thinks it is necessary, an ante-mortem inspection shall be made of all poultry on the day of slaughter in accordance with instructions prescribed by him.
(2)
All batteries, coops and other similar facilities used to coop poultry shall be of such construction as to facilitate adequate inspection of the poultry therein by an inspector.
(3)
Any bird showing any disease or condition on ante-mortem inspection that would warrant its condemnation on post-mortem inspection shall be condemned.
(4)
Any bird that an ante-mortem inspection does not plainly show but is suspected of being infected with any disease or condition that may cause its condemnation on post-mortem inspection shall be held apart from the other poultry for separate slaughter, evisceration and post-mortem inspection.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Entry of farm killed poultry
12.05
Farm killed poultry (that is, farm dressed) will be allowed entry to an establishment licensed under the Act subject to the following conditions:
(a) the farm must first be approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector. Such approval must be in writing and renewed annually upon application to and in the discretion of the Chief Veterinary Inspector;
(b) any operator who allows entry of farm killed poultry into his establishment shall be liable for the inspection charges at the prevailing rate;
(c) such entry may only be made during the regular schedule of hours while an inspector is on duty;
(d) poultry so entering an establishment are not eligible for shipment to another establishment for further processing but must enter the retail trade direct;
(e) the words "approved premises", or any such wording implying this, may not be used by the producer in any context whatsoever.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Post-mortem inspection
12.06
(1)
Viscera or any part thereof shall not be removed from any dressed poultry that is to be processed under inspection in any establishment licensed under this Act, except at the time of evisceration and in the presence of an inspector; each carcass to be eviscerated shall be opened so as to expose the organs and the body cavity for proper examination by the inspector.
(2)
Every carcass, or all parts comprising such carcass, shall be examined by the inspector, except that the oil sacs may be removed and condemned prior to such inspection.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Carcasses unfit for human consumption
12.07
(1)
Every carcass, including all parts thereof, in which there is found any lesion, disease or other condition that might render such carcass or any part thereof unfit for human food may be held for further examination. The identity of such carcass, including all parts thereof, shall be maintained until a final examination has been completed.
(2)
At the time of evisceration, any carcass or any part thereof that is found to be unsound, unwholesome or otherwise unfit for human food shall be condemned.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Condemnation of diseased carcasses
12.08
Carcasses affected with any of the following diseases or conditions shall be condemned: avian leucosis complex, botulism, emaciation, erysipelothrix septicaemia, listerellosis, ornithosis, paratyphoid septicaemia, septicaemia toxaemia, tuberculosis.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Carcasses with localized lesions
12.09
Carcasses affected with any of the following shall be condemned unless lesions are localized with no systemic disturbance, in which case the affected parts only shall be removed and condemned: avian pneumoencephalitis, chronic respiratory disease (CRD), coccidiosis, enterohepatitis, fowl cholera, fowl pox, fowl typhoid, infectious bronchitis, infectious coryza, infectious laryngotracheitis, mycotic infections, pseudotuberculosis, pullorum disease, trichomoniasis.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Other reasons for condemnation
12.10
(1)
Edible organs or parts of carcasses infested with parasites, or that show lesions of such infestation, shall be condemned.
(2)
Any carcass affected with gout and showing marked deposits of urates in the organs or tissues or evidence of general systemic disturbances shall be condemned.
(3)
Any carcass contaminated by volatile oils, paints, poisons, gases or other substances affecting the wholesomeness of the carcass shall be condemned.
(4)
Any carcass showing evidence of having died from causes other than slaughter shall be condemned.
(5)
Any carcass that has reached a state of putrefaction or stinking permentation shall be condemned.
(6)
Any part of a carcass that is "green struck" shall be condemned, and if the carcass is extensively so affected the whole carcass shall be condemned.
(7)
Any carcass affected with types of post-mortem change that are superficial in nature may be passed for food after removal and condemnation of the affected parts.
(8)
Condemned material shall be disposed of in such manner as approved by the Chief Veterinary Inspector.
(9)
All other conditions may be dealt with at the discretion of a veterinary inspector.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Equipment and utensils
12.11
(1)
All equipment and utensils shall be of rust proof metal or other impervious material and permit of proper and complete washing and cleaning.
(2)
All relevant sections of Division 7 shall apply.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Division 13 - Inspection of Rabbits
Definitions
13.01
In this Division:
"eviscerated rabbit"
means a rabbit, slaughtered for food, from which the head, blood, skin, feet and respiratory, digestive, urinary and genital organs have been removed;
"rabbit"
means a domestic rabbit.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Slaughter of rabbits
13.02
At the discretion of the Chief Veterinary Inspector, the slaughter of rabbits may be permitted in any abattoir licensed under this Act where adequate facilities are provided, the final product being eviscerated rabbit only.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Inspections
13.03
Ante-mortem and post-mortem inspection shall be performed on all rabbits slaughtered, and all carcasses found sound, wholesome, and fit for food shall be marked as required.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Conditions requiring total or partial condemnation
13.04
(1)
Any of the following diseases or conditions requires total condemnation: decomposition, emaciation, fly blow, pyaemia, septicaemia, tuberculosis.
(2)
The following diseases or conditions require total or partial condemnation: coccidiosis, cysticerus pisiformus infestation, multiceps serialis infestation, venereal disease.
(3)
Any other conditions may be dealt with at the discretion of a veterinary inspector.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/68.]
Division 14 - Offences
Offence
14.01
(1)
A person who
(a) contravenes section 3.21 (2), 4.06 (3), 4.07 to 4.12, 4.13 (1), 5.05, 5.10, 5.12, 8.06 or 10.03,
(b) stores, sells or offers for sale meat or meat products, other than those that were received from an establishment licensed under the Act or registered under the
Meat Inspection Act
(Canada), in commercial premises located in a meat inspection area established under the Act, or
(c) advertises in a meat inspection area established under the Act meat or meat products for sale with the intention of supplying meat or meat products other than those that were received from an establishment licensed under the Act or registered under the
Meat Inspection Act
(Canada)
commits an offence.
(2)
Subsection (1) (b) does not apply to meat or meat products that are stored in a cold storage or locker plant for the consumption or use of the person who stored it.
[en. B.C. Reg. 293/86.]
[Provisions of the
Meat Inspection Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 283, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 17]
