"Point in Time" Regulation Content
E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of Privacy) Act
Disclosure Directive Regulation
B.C. Reg. 172/2009
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content								as it was prior to the changes made on the effective date. (PIT
covers changes made from September 19, 2009 to
"current to" date of the regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Section 1
February 28, 2013
June 1, 2015
Section 2
June 1, 2015
March 30, 2022
Section 3
February 28, 2013
June 1, 2015
Section 1 definitions "non-photo BC services card", "photo BC services card", "photocopy" and "satisfactory identification" were added by BC Reg 69/2013, effective February 28, 2013.
Section 1 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 74/2015, effective June 1, 2015.
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of Privacy) Act
;
"adult"
means a person who is at least 19 years of age;
"minor"
means a person who is under 19 years of age;
"non-photo BC services card"
means a non-photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification Card Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2013;
"parent"
means a parent as defined in the
Child, Family and Community Service Act
;
"photo BC services card"
means a photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification Card Regulation or a driver's licence issued under section 25 (1.3) of the
Motor Vehicle Act
that indicates the holder is a beneficiary under the
Medicare Protection Act
;
"photocopy"
, in relation to a non-photo BC services card and a photo BC services card, means a photocopy of both the front and back of the card;
"satisfactory identification"
means identification satisfactory to the minister, issued by the government of Canada or by a provincial or territorial government.
[am. B.C. Reg. 69/2013, Sch. s. 1.]
Section 2 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 74/2015, effective June 1, 2015.
Persons who may make or revoke disclosure directives
2
(1)
An adult may make or revoke a disclosure directive on behalf of himself or herself or on behalf of another person in respect of whom the adult has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions.
(2)
Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a parent may make or revoke a disclosure directive on behalf of his or her minor child.
(3)
A minor who, in the opinion of the minister, understands the nature and consequences of making a disclosure directive may make or revoke a disclosure directive on his or her own behalf.
(4)
A disclosure directive made by a parent on behalf of a minor child ceases to be effective on the child's 19th birthday.
Section 2 (1) and (3) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective March 30, 2022.
(1)
An adult may make or revoke a disclosure directive on behalf of himself or herself or on behalf of another person in respect of whom the adult has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions.
(3)
A minor who, in the opinion of the minister, understands the nature and consequences of making a disclosure directive may make or revoke a disclosure directive on his or her own behalf.
Section 3 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 69/2013, effective February 28, 2013.
3
In addition to the requirements in section 9 of the Act, a disclosure directive or the revocation of a disclosure directive must
(a) be in a form and contain information satisfactory to the minister,
(b) be signed by the person making or revoking the directive, and
(c) be accompanied by the following:
(i)  in the case of a directive made or revoked on the person's own behalf, a photocopy of
(A)  the person's British Columbia CareCard, and
(B)  other identification satisfactory to the minister, issued by the government of Canada or a provincial or territorial government, for the person;
(ii)  in the case of a directive made or revoked by a parent on behalf of a minor child, a photocopy of
(A)  the British Columbia CareCard of the child for whom the directive is made or revoked,
(B)  other identification satisfactory to the minister, issued by the government of Canada or a provincial or territorial government, for the parent making or revoking the directive, and
(C)  the child's birth certificate;
(iii)  in the case of a directive made or revoked by a person on behalf of another adult, a photocopy of
(A)  the British Columbia CareCard of the person for whom the directive is made or revoked,
(B)  identification satisfactory to the minister, issued by the government of Canada or a provincial or territorial government, for the person making or revoking the directive and the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked, and
(C)  documentation satisfactory to the minister providing evidence that the person making or revoking the directive has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions on behalf of the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked.
Section 3 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 74/2015, effective June 1, 2015.
Conditions respecting making and revoking disclosure directives
3
In addition to the requirements in section 9 of the Act, a disclosure directive or the revocation of a disclosure directive must
(a)
be in a form and contain information satisfactory to the minister,
(b)
be signed by the person making or revoking the directive, and
(c)
be accompanied by the following:
(i)
in the case of a directive made or revoked on the person's own behalf, a photocopy of
(A)
the person's photo BC services card, or
(B)
the person's British Columbia CareCard or non-photo BC services card, as well as other satisfactory identification for the person;
(ii)
in the case of a directive made or revoked by a parent on behalf of a minor child, a photocopy of
(A)
the British Columbia CareCard, non-photo BC services card or photo BC services card of the child for whom the directive is made or revoked,
(B)
satisfactory identification for the parent making or revoking the directive, and
(C)
the child's birth certificate;
(iii)
in the case of a directive made or revoked by a person on behalf of another adult, a photocopy of the following:
(A)
if the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked has a photo BC services card, the person's photo BC services card;
(B)
if the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked does not have a photo BC services card, the person's British Columbia CareCard or non-photo BC services card, as well as other satisfactory identification for the person;
(C)
satisfactory identification for the person making or revoking the directive;
(D)
documentation satisfactory to the minister providing evidence that the person making or revoking the directive has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions on behalf of the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked.
[am. B.C. Reg. 69/2013, Sch. s. 2.]
