"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Emergency Program Act
Local Authority Emergency Management Regulation
B.C. Reg. 380/95
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 184/2024, effective July 8, 2024.
B.C. Reg. 380/95
O.C. 1075/95
Deposited September 8, 1995
Emergency Program Act
Local Authority Emergency
Management Regulation
Interpretation
1
In this regulation
"Act"
means the
Emergency Program Act
.
Local emergency plans
2
(1)
A local authority must reflect in the local emergency plan prepared by it under section 6 (2) of the Act
(a)
the potential emergencies and disasters that could affect all or any part of the jurisdictional area for which the local authority has responsibility, and
(b)
the local authority's assessment of the relative risk of occurrence and the potential impact on people and property of the emergencies or disasters referred to under paragraph (a).
(2)
Each municipal council and each board of a regional district that qualifies as a local authority under section 1 (1) of the Act must reflect in its local emergency plan, unless it is documented elsewhere,
(a)
the commitment of the local authority to provide policy guidance and direction to the emergency management organization established by that local authority under section 6 (3) of the Act, and
(b)
the procedures by which that guidance and direction is to be provided.
(3)
A local authority must, as part of the local emergency plan prepared by it under section 6 (2) of the Act,
(a)
require a periodic review and updating of the local emergency plan and establish a procedure for that review and revision,
(b)
establish and maintain for all emergency response staff to whom responsibilities are assigned in the plan,
(i)
a program of emergency response exercises, and
(ii)
a training program,
(c)
identify the procedures by which emergency resources, including, without limitation, personnel, equipment, facilities and financial resources, may be obtained from sources within or outside of the jurisdictional area for which the local authority has responsibility,
(d)
establish the procedures by which the plan is to be implemented,
(e)
establish procedures by which those persons who may be harmed or who may suffer loss are notified of an emergency or impending disaster,
(f)
coordinate the provision of food, clothing, shelter, transportation and medical services to victims of emergencies and disasters, whether that provision is made from within or outside of the local authority,
(g)
establish the priorities for restoring essential services provided by the local authority that are interrupted during an emergency or disaster, and
(h)
recommend to service providers the priorities for restoring essential services not provided by the local authority that are interrupted during an emergency or disaster.
(4)
A local authority may incorporate into its local emergency plan any confirmed, potential or anticipated assistance and resources of other levels of government or other non-government bodies.
Powers of a local authority
3
Nothing in this regulation or the Act prevents a local authority from
(a)
entering into mutual aid agreements with one or more local authorities for emergency resources of all types and subsequent cost recovery,
(b)
entering into agreements with non-government organizations for emergency resources of all types and subsequent cost recovery, and
(c)
providing emergency training to and conducting emergency exercises with persons residing or carrying on business in the jurisdictional area for which the local authority has jurisdiction.
Duties of a local authority
4
Each municipal council and each board of a regional district that qualifies as a local authority under section 1 (1) of the Act must, on the request of and within the time required by the minister, submit to the minister
(a)
the local emergency plan as prepared under section 6 (2) of the Act and updated under section 2 (3) (a) of this regulation,
(b)
the schedule and content of any emergency training or exercise program, and
(c)
any other emergency prevention, preparedness, response or recovery information that the minister considers necessary to assist the minister in preparing or establishing procedures required for the prompt and efficient implementation of plans and programs to meet emergencies and disasters.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Emergency Program Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 111, s. 28.]
