"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Elevating Devices Safety Act
Elevating Devices Safety Regulation
B.C. Reg. 28/90
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 137/2004, effective April 1, 2004.
B.C. Reg. 28/90
O.C. 187/90
Deposited February 1, 1990
Elevating Devices Safety Act
Elevating Devices Safety Regulation
Part 1 - General
Interpretation
1
(1) 							In this regulation:
"acceptance inspection"
means an inspection that is carried out on an elevating device prior to its being placed into service;
"Act"
means the
Elevating Devices Safety Act
;
"attendant"
means a person involved in marshalling passengers or cars or assisting patrons, collecting fares and other related duties;
"branch"
means the Elevating Devices Safety Branch;
"call"
means an auditing or monitoring activity performed by an inspector;
"contractor"
means a person licensed under the Act who is engaged by an owner to design, construct, install, repair, maintain or test an elevating device;
"dwelling house access device"
means a special elevating device specifically designed to provide access to or from, or access to and from, a dwelling house occupied or constructed to be occupied as a separate dwelling by one person or a family unit;
"elevating device for the handicapped"
means an elevating device specifically designed for use by handicapped persons travelling between fixed points of a building or structure;
"incident"
means an accident or occurrence where
(a) an elevating device falls freely, engages its emergency supporting devices, or causes personal injury or death, or
(b) a failure in the design of an elevating device is revealed;
"lobby"
means an elevator service area outside the elevator entrance;
"mandatory maintenance"
means the maintenance of an elevating device that is provided by a licensed contractor under contract to the owner, for a minimum duration of one year, and includes periodic examination and maintenance services such as cleaning and lubrication, all safety-related tests required by this regulation and immediate treatment of any safety-related deficiency, such as the adjustment, repair or replacement of any defective equipment or components, but does not include a major or minor alteration as defined by this regulation, or an alteration as defined by the safety code;
"owner"
means a person having charge of an elevating device as owner, agent or otherwise;
"periodic inspection"
means an inspection that is carried out on a basis determined by the director;
"periodic test"
means a test that is carried out on a basis determined by the director;
"personnel hoist"
means a structure or hoist that is not a permanent part of a building, structure or other works and that is used during construction, alteration or demolition to raise and lower persons or materials, or both, in connection with or in relation to a building project;
"safety code"
means the safety codes and standards set out in Schedule B;
"special inspection"
means an inspection that is carried out on an existing elevating device subsequent to an initial inspection.
(2)
Words and expressions referred to in this regulation have the same meanings as those assigned to them in the applicable safety code.
(3)
Where a conflict exists between this regulation and the safety code, this regulation shall govern.
(4)
For the purposes of this regulation, a requirement to file drawings and specifications with the branch does not imply an approval by the branch of the drawings or specifications unless this regulation specifically states that the filing is for the purpose of approval by the branch.
(5)
For the purposes of section 4 (1) of the Act and this regulation,
(a)
"major alteration"
means an alteration to an elevating device which alters any one of the following:
(i)  rated load;
(ii)  rated speed;
(iii)  the number of hoistway entrances;
(iv)  the drive system;
(v)  the device classification;
(vi)  the original structural design;
(vii)  the design, materials or strength of a hydraulic cylinder or plunger if the working pressure is increased by more than 10%, and
(b)
"minor alteration"
means an alteration to an elevating device that is not a "major alteration".
[am. B.C. Regs. 42/91, s. 1; 412/95, s. 1; 112/99, s. (a); 29/2003, s. 1.]
Adoption of safety code
2
The provisions of the safety code are adopted for the purpose of design, construction, installation, alteration, repair, maintenance and testing of elevating devices, and are binding on owners and their representatives, contractors and inspectors.
Application
3
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), all elevating devices shall comply with the requirements of this regulation.
(2)
The following types of elevating devices are exempt from the Act and this regulation:
(a) amusement rides driven by muscular power;
(b) coin operated amusement rides where there are not more than 2 passengers;
(c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 67/92.]
(d) portable elevating devices for the handicapped;
(e) elevating devices for the handicapped where the travel of the lift is 500 mm or less;
(f) dwelling house access devices.
[am. B.C. Regs. 67/92; 112/99, ss. (b) and (c).]
Compliance
4
(1)
No person shall operate, install, alter, repair, maintain, service or test an elevating device except in accordance with or as permitted by the Act and this regulation.
(2)
Where a person cannot comply with one or more sections of this regulation, that person shall immediately cease the operation, installation, alteration or repair of the elevating device and notify the director.
(3)
Further operation, installation, alteration or repair of the elevating device in respect of which the operation, installation, alteration or repair has ceased under subsection (2) shall not proceed without the permission of the director.
Acceptance inspection
5
Where an owner or contractor constructs or installs a new elevating device for which a certificate to operate under section 3 of the Act has not been previously issued or completes a major alteration to an elevating device, an application by the owner or contractor for an acceptance inspection shall be made to the director and shall be accompanied by the fee specified for the class of elevating device listed in section 1 of Schedule A.
Certificate to operate and identification plate
6
(1)
An application by an owner of an elevating device for an annual certificate to operate under section 3 of the Act shall be made to the director and shall be accompanied by the fee specified for the elevating device listed in section 4 of Schedule A.
(2)
The owner of the elevating device shall post the certificate to operate in the elevator machine room in the case of an elevator or in a readily visible location in the case of other elevating devices.
(3)
The director shall issue an identification plate for each new elevating device.
(4)
The owner of the elevating device shall at all times display the identification plate or an approved facsimile in a conspicuous place within the elevator cab or attach the identification plate adjacent to the elevating device in all other cases.
(5)
A certificate to operate is valid for a period of 12 months from the date of issue or renewal.
(6)
A certificate to operate is invalid if the mandatory maintenance section of the "Certificate to Operate" renewal form is not filled out by the owner and returned to the branch for registration.
[am. B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 2.]
Contractor's licence
7
(1)
An application for a contractor's licence under section 4 (2) (a) of the Act shall be made to the director and shall be accompanied by the fee specified for the class of contractor's licence listed in section 5 or 6 of Schedule A.
(2)
The applicant shall obtain from the branch and submit
(a) an "Application for Contractor's Licence" form, and
(b) a "Registration Information" form.
(3)
A contractor's licence shall be classified by registration as follows:
(a) Class A — design, construct, install, alter, repair, maintain or test any elevating device;
(b) Class RA — restricted to the design, construction, alteration, repair, maintenance or testing of those elevating devices identified on the contractor's licence;
(c) Class M — restricted to the maintenance and servicing of those elevating devices identified on the contractor's licence;
(d) Class C — restricted to the design, construction, installation, alteration, repair, maintenance or testing of personnel construction hoists;
(e) Class H — restricted to the design, construction, installation, alteration, repair, maintenance or testing of elevating devices for the handicapped;
(f) Class AM — restricted to the design, construction, installation, alteration, operation, repair, maintenance or testing of amusement rides;
(g) Class IC — restricted to the installation of non-structural elevator cab enclosure linings;
(h) Class MR — restricted to the maintenance, servicing and repair of those elevating devices identified on the contractor's licence.
(4)
The requirements for registration and renewal are that the applicant satisfies the director with respect to company personnel, competence, ability, resources, knowledge of the safety code, training programs and ability to deal with emergencies.
(5)
The contractor shall be capable of, or shall employ a mechanic or technician who is capable of, installing and maintaining each elevating device for which the contractor is responsible.
(6)
All fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the licence.
(7)
A new licence issued under this section is valid from the date of issue until December 31 of the year of issue and thereafter the renewal of that licence is valid for a 12 month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31.
(8)
A contractor renewing a licence must complete and submit the "Contractor Licence Renewal Notice" form provided by the branch and must submit a complete list of elevating device units maintained by the contractor under mandatory maintenance.
(9)
The type of periodic examination and maintenance, whether monthly or quarterly, must be identified.
[am. B.C. Regs. 412/95, s. 3; 104/97, s. (a).]
Operator's licence
8
(1)
An application for an operator's licence under section 5 of the Act shall be made to the director and shall be accompanied by the fee specified in section 7 of Schedule A.
(2)
An operator's licence shall be classified by registration as follows:
(a) Car Switch Elevator Operator;
(b) Personnel Hoist Operator;
(c) Section 5.10 Elevator Operator under CSA Standard B44-00, Safety Code for Elevators;
(d) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 4 (b).]
(3)
An applicant must certify in writing to the director that he or she is at least 18 years of age if an application is for a Personnel Hoist Operator licence or a Section 5.10 Elevator Operator licence.
(4)
Where an applicant applies for a licence as a Personnel Hoist Operator or an Amusement Ride Operator, the applicant shall provide a letter of verification of training from a contractor.
(5)
On receipt of an application for an operator's licence the director shall cause the applicant to write an examination and be examined orally, and on being satisfied that the person has the capability to operate and control the elevating device for which application is made the director shall issue an operator's licence in the name of the person specified in the application.
(6)
An operator's licence is not transferable and is valid for a period of 12 months from the date of issue or renewal unless the director suspends or cancels the licence.
[am. B.C. Regs. 412/95, s. 4; 29/2003, s. 2.]
Fees
9
(1)
The fees set out in Schedule A for inspections, tests, approvals, certificates, licences or other matters described in the schedule are payable by the appropriate persons described in it.
(2)
In addition to fees payable under subsection (1), a person who requests an inspection or call shall, where applicable, pay the reasonable living and travelling expenses of the inspector.
(3)
The fee for a certificate to operate, set out in a "Renewal Notice" form issued by the branch, shall be paid within the 60 day period prior to the expiry date of the certificate.
Inspectors
10
(1)
For the purposes of section 10 of the Act, the director may designate as an inspector a person who, to the satisfaction of the director,
(a) has demonstrated competence and knowledge of elevating devices and has proven his or her qualifications in compliance with this regulation,
(b) has been employed as an elevator mechanic for a period of not less than 5 years,
(c) has served an indentured apprenticeship with an elevator contractor acceptable to the branch,
(d) is able to read, write and speak in the English language,
(e) has supplied a written statement or résumé identifying his or her work experience and type of employment, and
(f) has passed written and oral examinations, approved by the director, with a grade in each examination of 60% or greater.
(2)
The director may, at any time, revoke the designation of a person as inspector where that person fails to maintain the standards of competency established by subsection (1) or fails to perform his or her duties or exercise his or her powers in an adequate or proper manner.
Filing of documents
11
(1)
No person shall
(a) construct or install an elevating device without first filing with the branch, in triplicate, copies of design drawings and specifications of the elevating device,
(b) perform a major alteration to an elevating device without first filing with the branch, in triplicate, copies of design drawings and specifications of the proposed major alteration, or
(c) perform an alteration to an elevating device that is not a major alteration without first filing with the branch, in triplicate, copies of the proposal outlining the extent of the proposed alteration.
(2)
Where required by the director, design drawings and specifications of elevating device components, with sufficient detail to describe each component, shall be filed with the branch.
(3)
Design drawings and specifications shall be accompanied by the fee specified for the class of elevating device listed in section 8 of Schedule A.
Incidents
12
(1)
Where an elevating device is involved in an incident, the owner of that elevating device and the contractor, when informed, shall, within 24 hours, make a complete report of the incident to the director.
(2)
On receipt of the report under subsection (1) the director shall make or cause to be made an investigation into the incident in order to determine the cause.
(3)
Except for the purpose of saving life or relieving human suffering, no person, except an inspector, shall interfere with, disturb, destroy, carry away or alter any wreckage, article or thing that is at the scene of or connected with an incident until permission to do so is given by the investigating inspector.
Owner responsibilities
12.1
An owner of an elevating device must
(a) contract with a licensed contractor to maintain a program of mandatory maintenance for the elevating device to ensure its safe working condition, and
(b) operate the elevating device in a safe manner.
[en. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 3.]
Contractor responsibilities
13
(1)
Where a contractor who is responsible for the maintenance of an elevating device has knowledge of an incident involving that elevating device which causes injury to any person, the contractor shall shut down the elevating device, prohibit its use and, within 24 hours of the incident, give notice of the facts of the incident in writing to an inspector.
(2)
The contractor shall not effect any repair to the elevating device shut down under subsection (1) until authorized to do so by an inspector.
(3)
A contractor who is responsible for the maintenance of an elevating device shall
(a) report to the branch any manufacturing deficiencies that could cause an unsafe condition,
(b) remove from service any elevating device that is being operated in an unsafe condition and shall inform the branch of this action within 24 hours, and
(c) report back to an inspector by issuing written confirmation of completion of an inspector's directive.
(4)
A contractor who performs a test under this regulation shall, on behalf of the owner, give a written report of the test to the director.
(5)
Where a contractor provides a service in respect of an amusement ride under Part 5, the contractor shall require the owner of the amusement ride to immediately remove from duty an operator or attendant who is found to be intoxicated or drug impaired.
[am. B.C. Reg. 42/91, s. 2.]
Periodic inspections and tests
14
(1)
The director shall cause every elevating device to undergo periodic inspections and tests.
(2)
An inspection shall include a visual examination of all exposed parts and safety devices of the elevating device and, where an inspector requires any part of the elevating device to be examined and tested, the owner shall ensure that the examination or test is made by a competent person authorized by the director.
Testing of safeties and governors
15
Where applicable, the owner of an elevating device shall ensure that the car and counterweight safety tests, the governor overspeed tests and the governor pull through tests are carried out at intervals not exceeding 3 years, and shall deliver or cause to have delivered to the director an affidavit stating the results of the tests.
[en. B.C. Reg. 42/91, s. 3.]
Elevating devices for the handicapped
16
(1)
The installation and maintenance of an elevating device for the handicapped must be in accordance with the safety code and this regulation.
(2)
The lift and its components must be designed appropriately for the specific location.
(3)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 4.]
(4)
If a handrail or handgrip is required or specified it must be
(a) at least 38 mm clear of the wall, and located at a height of 900 mm ± 100 mm from the floor,
(b) 38 mm to 50 mm in diameter, and
(c) designed to eliminate snagging.
[en. B.C. Reg. 13/97, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 4.]
Elevator loading
17
The total load on an elevator during loading and unloading by industrial power trucks or handtrucks shall not exceed the rated load of the elevator.
[am. B.C. Reg. 42/91, s. 4.]
Worn parts
18
An owner of an elevating device shall ensure that worn or defective parts that may affect safe operation are repaired or replaced in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
Machine room and hoistway access and egress
19
Access and egress for the machine room and hoistway entrance of an elevating device shall not be through a private suite or washroom.
Sump pump for escalator
20
A sump pump that is required to prevent water seepage accumulating in the bottom of an escalator shall be installed outside of the escalator truss area.
Oil buffer compression return
21
Every oil buffer installed after January 1, 1991 shall be provided with a safety device to prevent an elevator from operating if the oil buffer does not re-extend to its normal position after compression.
Hoistway structure
22
(1)
The hoistway structure of an elevating device installed after January 1, 1991 shall be demonstrated to be capable of withstanding all specified load conditions.
(2)
The hoistway enclosure shall be capable of withstanding a force of 2 500 N applied on the outside at right angles to and approximately at the centre of any wall or panel section.
(3)
The force applied under subsection (2) shall be distributed over an area of 100 mm x 100 mm.
(4)
There shall be no appreciable permanent displacement or deformation resulting from this test after the force has been removed.
(5)
If fire resistive material construction is not required by the applicable building safety ordinance, code or enforcing authority having jurisdiction, hoistway enclosures may include panels of glass, provided that the panels
(a) are made of laminated glass that conforms to the material requirements of the National Standard of Canada, Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass, CAN/CGSB-12.1-M90, or
(b) are of a design and construction method using an arrangement of glass, combined with other materials, that
(i)  meets the requirements of subsection (7), and
(ii)  provides a performance and level of safety equivalent to laminated glass that conforms to the requirements in paragraph (a).
(6)
A professional engineer must provide verification of the equivalency required by subsection (5) (b).
(7)
If a hoistway enclosure panel fails, regardless of the type of material used and whether or not fire resistive material construction is required, the failure must be such that objects projected from a source external to the hoistway enclosure, or fragments of the failed panel, will not enter the hoistway.
[am. B.C. Reg. 15/2002.]
Elevator machine room venting
23
Every hydraulic elevator machine room shall be permanently vented, directly or indirectly, to the building exterior.
Cautionary sign
24
Where a cautionary sign is required, it shall be durable, clearly legible, non-flammable and with black letters having a minimum height of 50 mm on a yellow background.
Welding
25
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), welding procedures for elevating devices must comply with the specifications of the safety code.
(2)
If the welding procedure specifications of the safety code are not practicable, welding procedures for elevating devices must comply with the specifications of the British Columbia Institute of Technology.
(3)
The qualifications of the welder and the welding fabricator must meet the specifications and requirements of the safety code or the British Columbia Institute of Technology, as applicable.
[en. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 5.]
Hydraulic elevating devices
25.1
(1)
For the purposes of this section,
"relief valve set pressure"
means set-to-open pressure, set-to-start-to-open pressure or the static pressure increasingly applied in the inlet of a relief valve installed in the hydraulic system of a hydraulic elevating device
(a) at which the relief valve is set to start to open and allows only drops of hydraulic fluid to pass, and
(b) that must be exceeded in order for the relief valve to pass hydraulic fluid back to the hydraulic fluid storage tank of the hydraulic system.
(2)
In respect of a hydraulic elevating device, the following requirements apply to relief valve systems:
(a) the relief valve set pressure must be the set pressure that is required to meet the maximum flow capacity and maximum relieving pressure requirements in paragraph (b);
(b) the size of the relief valve and bypass must be sufficient to pass the maximum flow capacity rated for the hydraulic pump and at the same time raise the pressure above the working pressure by no more than 50% at that pump;
(c) two or more relief valves may be used for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) and must be
(i)  designed with a means for sealing, and
(ii)  sealed after being set in accordance with paragraph (a).
(3)
When flexible hose is used, a line rupture valve or overspeed valve, as applicable, must be installed in every hydraulic elevating device and the valve must be adequate to
(a) reduce and then stop the flow of hydraulic fluid in order to prevent a sudden drop in pressure, and
(b) stop and sustain a hydraulic elevating device that is moving downward
if the flexible hose or fitting assembly fails.
[en. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 6.]
Evacuation procedures
26
Evacuation procedures, when performed by a person other than a contractor, shall be submitted by the owner to the director.
Internal elevator cab finishing
27
(1)
A person finishing the interior of an elevator cab shall hold a valid Class A, RA, M or IC licence.
(2)
Plans and a material specifications sheet shall be submitted in triplicate to the branch prior to starting the project.
(3)
All material and equipment added to the elevator cab shall comply with the safety code.
(4)
Glass, where used, shall be laminated or tempered and shall be permanently identified.
(5)
All adhesive bonding shall comply with the manufacturer's specifications and procedures of application.
(6)
Every change in cab weight shall be approved by the elevator manufacturer or contractor, and evidence of the approval shall be submitted to the director.
(7)
Advertising or display panels added to an elevator cab shall conform to the following:
(a) surface material shall be fire resistant, having a maximum flame spread rating of 25;
(b) displays shall not be raised more than 16 mm from the interior car surface and projecting corners shall have a minimum radius of 6 mm.
[am. B.C. Regs. 42/91, s. 5; 412/95, s. 7; 29/2003, s. 7.]
Machine room electrical disconnect
28
A means of providing an electrical disconnect shall be located where it is visible on entry to the machine room and shall be readily accessible to authorized persons.
Offences
29
A person who
(a) contravenes section 4 (2) or (3), 6 (2) or (4), 11, 12 (1) or (3), 13 or 15, or
(b) knowingly violates a provision of the safety code or, where applicable, the standards set out in Part 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6
commits an offence.
[am. B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 8.]
Part 2 - Existing Elevating Devices
Application
30
(1)
This Part applies only to elevating devices installed prior to January 1, 1974.
(2)
Elevating devices installed after January 1, 1974 shall comply with the applicable safety code in force at the time of installation.
Refuge space
31
(1)
Where structural conditions allow, a top of car refuge space shall be provided measuring, in the case of
(a) a traction elevator when the counterweight has fully compressed the counterweight buffer,
(b) a winding drum elevator when the car has been stopped by the top final stopping device or the machine limit, or both, or
(c) a hydraulic plunger elevator, when the plunger is in its fully extended position,
at least 1 070 mm by 750 mm by a vertical height of 600 mm, with the area including either the centreline of the car top or the centreline of the car rails.
(2)
Every elevating device shall have adequate vertical clearance between
(a) the top of the counterweight, and
(b) the underside of any part of the hoistway or elevator machinery that is vertically above the counterweight,
when the car is stopped at the lowest point to which it can travel.
Guide rail
32
(1)
Every guide rail shall be rigidly supported in proper alignment to safely withstand the maximum loads to be imposed upon it by a car or counterweight.
(2)
Every car or counterweight of an elevating device shall have guide rails of metal or wood.
Connection to main driving gear
33
No friction gearing or clutch mechanism shall be used to connect the drum or sheave of an elevator to the main driving gear.
Hoistways to be enclosed
34
(1)
Except at landing openings, the hoistway of every elevating device shall be enclosed with solid masonry, concrete, metal, wood or glass walls, partitions or screens
(a) on all sides to a height of 1 830 mm or more,
(i)  from the floor to the highest working level adjacent to the hoistway, or
(ii)  from the treads of adjoining stairways,
(b) from the top of each landing opening to the ceiling, and
(c) adjacent to each side of a counterweight runway for a distance of 152 mm or more.
(2)
Openings in the sides of a hoistway enclosure shall reject a ball 25 mm in diameter.
(3)
Trap doors in the hoistway shall not be permitted unless specifically approved by the director.
Permitted openings
35
Every elevator hoistway landing opening shall
(a) be not less than 1 980 mm high,
(b) have a width and height not in excess of the car entrance opening, and
(c) be guarded by a door or gate that extends from the door sill to the top of the opening.
Height of landing doors or gates
36
An elevator landing door or gate in the closed position shall have a minimum height of 1 980 mm.
Openings in landing doors and gates
37
(1)
Every automatic passenger elevator shall have solid landing doors.
(2)
Where permitted, openings in a landing door or gate shall reject a ball 51 mm in diameter.
Vision panel in hoistway landing door
38
Except where a hoistway door opens automatically when the car is at a landing, every hoistway landing door for an elevator shall, on installation, be provided with a vision panel of clear wired glass not more than 153 mm wide and 0.0516 m
2
in area.
Projections in hoistway
39
(1)
Except for interlocks and other similar operating devices, projections that extend inward from the hoistway enclosure that are within 102 mm of an entrance side of an elevator car shall be bevelled and substantially guarded on the top by smooth concrete or smooth metal set at an angle of not less than 60°  nor more than 75°  from the horizontal.
(2)
Where a car levelling device is provided and the hoistway edge of the sill projects into the hoistway, a fascia guard shall be provided having a straight vertical face extending below the sill a distance not less than the depth of the levelling zone plus 76 mm.
Conductors and piping
40
Installation of electrical conductors or piping of any description in or through a hoistway shall be limited to
(a) electrical conductors for the elevator,
(b) hydraulic elevator piping in the pit,
(c) low pressure steam or hot water pipes for heating the elevator hoistway and machine room,
(d) sprinkler piping for protecting the hoistway and machine room, and
(e) heat sensors, smoke detectors or other alarm devices.
Clearances
41
(1)
Every automatic passenger elevator shall have a maximum clearance of 102 mm between the hoistway door and the car door.
(2)
Subject to subsection (3), the distance between the edge of a freight elevator car platform and its hoistway enclosure on the side used for loading or unloading shall not exceed 190 mm where vertical lifting bi-parting doors are installed wholly within the hoistway.
(3)
All recesses and window openings shall be covered flush with the inside of the hoistway wall with vertical slatting, grill work or screen that rejects a ball 51 mm in diameter.
(4)
There shall be a minimum running clearance of
(a) 19 mm between an elevator car and its hoistway enclosure, and
(b) 25 mm between the car and its counterweight.
(5)
There shall be a minimum running clearance between an elevator car platform sill and a landing sill of
(a) 12.7 mm where the car has side post construction, and
(b) 19 mm where the car has corner post construction.
(6)
The maximum running clearance between a car platform sill and a landing sill shall be 38 mm for every elevator.
Sills
42
(1)
Every landing sill for an elevator shall be maintained so as to prevent a person from tripping or slipping on it.
(2)
Every elevator landing sill shall be plainly visible and illuminated to a minimum of 11 decalux.
Straight arm closer
43
(1)
Horizontal sliding hoistway doors, single or multiple section, that are fitted with a straight arm closer shall be interlocked or equipped with a metal guard that prevents any person from opening the doors with wire hooks from the landing side while the elevator car is not in the landing zone.
(2)
The metal guard shall
(a) extend at least 205 mm above and at least 400 mm below the straight arm closer, and
(b) be adjusted for proper clearance between the doors and the straight arm closer.
Interlocking devices and door types
44
(1)
Every landing door or gate for a passenger or freight elevator shall be provided with an interlocking device that
(a) prevents the operation of the driving machine by the normal operating device unless the landing door or gate is closed and locked, and
(b) prevents the landing door or gate from being opened from the landing side unless the car is within the landing zone and is stopped.
(2)
Landing doors and door assemblies shall be designed to prevent the dislodging of the landing doors in case of fire.
Elevator car sides
45
(1)
Except at an entrance opening, each side of an elevator car shall,
(a) in the case of a passenger elevator, be fully enclosed with solid materials,
(b) in the case of a freight elevator,
(i)  be enclosed with solid materials to a minimum height of 2 130 mm, and
(ii)  where a side is adjacent to a counterweight runway, be enclosed with solid materials for 102 mm on either side of the runway.
(2)
Openings in freight elevator car sides above 2 130 mm shall reject a ball 51 mm in diameter.
Permitted openings in elevator cars
46
(1)
Every passenger elevator car, excluding observation elevators, shall have a solid top provided with an emergency access panel.
(2)
Every freight elevator car shall,
(a) where it has a travel not exceeding 4 570 mm, be fully covered by a substantial top that is securely fastened, except that portion adjacent to a car entrance which may be hinged, and
(b) where it has a travel exceeding 4 570 mm, have a car top capable of safely supporting a concentrated load of 68 kg using
(i)  a solid top provided with an emergency access panel, or
(ii)  a perforated top with openings that reject a ball 25 mm in diameter.
(3)
The emergency access panel shall provide a clear passageway.
(4)
The emergency access panel of an elevator car top shall
(a) open outward and be so hinged or otherwise attached to the car top that the panel can be opened only from the top of the car without the use of tools, and
(b) in the case of an automatic or continuous pressure operation elevator, be provided with an electrical device so designed that it
(i)  prevents operation of the elevator car if the access panel is open more than 51 mm,
(ii)  is positively opened by movement of the panel,
(iii)  cannot be closed accidentally when the panel is removed, and
(iv)  can only be manually reset from the top of the car when the panel is within 51 mm of the fully closed position.
(5)
Emergency access panels in the sides of an elevator car enclosure shall have an electrical contact to prevent the operation of the car when a panel is opened or removed.
Car doors and gates
47
(1)
The elevator car entrance shall have a door or gate that,
(a) in the case of a passenger elevator, extends the full width of the entrance opening to a minimum height of 1 980 mm above the car floor, and
(b) in the case of a freight elevator, guards the full width of the entrance opening to a minimum height of 1 830 mm above the car floor.
(2)
Every elevator car door or gate shall,
(a) when in the fully open position, provide a minimum head room clearance of 1 980 mm, and
(b) when in a closed position, be within 51 mm of the vertical line of the entrance edge of the car platform.
(3)
Every elevator car door or gate shall be provided with an electrical contact or an interlocking device that prevents operation of the car unless the door or gate is within 50 mm of the fully closed position and be so located that the device is not accessible from inside the car.
(4)
Every automatic passenger elevator for use by the general public shall have an approved non-perforated car door.
(5)
A freight elevator may be provided with openings in a door or gate and each opening shall reject a ball 51 mm in diameter.
[am. B.C. Reg. 42/91, s. 6.]
Access to machine rooms, machinery and pits
48
Safe and convenient access shall be provided
(a) to every elevator machine room and to all overhead elevator machines
(i)  by a fixed stairway with handrails that is not located in the hoistway and that has maximum angle of 50°  from the horizontal, or
(ii)  by a hinged and counter balanced hatchcover where the access is through a hatchway in the roof of a building, and
(b) to every elevator pit,
and in every case access shall be restricted to authorized persons.
Machine spaces
49
Every machine room and machinery space shall be
(a) enclosed to a minimum height of 1 830 mm above the adjacent floor,
(b) illuminated artificially to a minimum intensity of 11 decalux, and
(c) ventilated and heated to ensure an ambient temperature between 5°  C and 32°  C.
[am. B.C. Reg. 42/91, s. 7.]
Elevator pits
50
(1)
A minimum clearance of 610 mm shall be provided between the underside of a car platform and the floor of the pit vertically below the platform when the car has fully compressed its buffers or bumpers.
(2)
In every elevator pit there shall be a manually operated stop switch, located adjacent to the entrance of the pit, that stops and prevents the operation of the elevator.
(3)
Every pit shall be kept clean and dry.
(4)
No sump pumps or their control equipment shall be located in an elevator pit.
(5)
Pits extending more than 1 220 mm below the landing sill shall be provided with a fixed vertical ladder of incombustible material.
(6)
The ladder shall be located on the lock side of the entrance.
Pit guards
51
(1)
There shall be provided in every pit a solid metal guard or screen guard on the open side of the space between counterweight guides that
(a) extends from 310 mm above the pit floor to a height of at least 1 830 mm, and
(b) rejects a ball 25 mm in diameter where a screen guard is used.
(2)
When compensating chains or ropes are attached to the underside of the counterweight, the guard required by subsection (1) may be omitted on the side facing the elevator car which the counterweight serves.
(3)
Where there is insufficient space between car and counterweight to permit the installation of the guard required by subsection (1), there shall be attached to the underside of the counterweight a minimum of 2 telltale chains which are
(a) not less than 1 220 mm in length and spaced not more than 305 mm apart, and
(b) constructed of metal links that are not less than 4.8 mm nor more than 6.4 mm in diameter.
Winding drum machines
52
A power elevator that has a winding drum machine shall
(a) have a terminal limit device (machine limit) that is directly driven by the machine, and
(b) regardless of the position of the car in the hoistway, be provided with a device that
(i)  cuts off the power to the machine until the device is manually reset, and
(ii)  automatically applies the brake on the machine when any hoisting rope becomes slack or breaks.
Terminal stopping switch
53
(1)
Every power elevator shall have normal terminal stopping switches or devices that stop the car at its top and bottom landings.
(2)
Every power traction elevator shall have a final terminal stopping device that prevents the car from overrunning its safe limits of travel at the top and the bottom of the hoistway.
(3)
The operation of the final terminal stopping device shall be designed to remove the power from the machine and the brake.
Operating handle
54
Where the operating device of an electrical elevator has an operator's handle, the handle shall be designed to automatically return to the "stop" position when released by the operator.
Operating for inspection, maintenance and repairs
55
(1)
Automatic electrical or electrically controlled elevators that have rated speeds exceeding 0.762 m/s shall be provided with an operating device that enables the elevator to be operated from the top of the car.
(2)
The operating device required under subsection (1) shall
(a) have
(i)  a switch designed to transfer control from normal to maintenance operation, and
(ii)  operating buttons of the constant pressure type
and all switches and buttons shall be protected against accidental operation,
(b) operate the car at a speed not exceeding 0.762 m/s, except that on single speed installations the operating device may operate the car at the normal operating speed,
(c) operate the car only when
(i)  the car door or gate is in the closed position, and
(ii)  all hoistway doors are in the closed and locked position,
(d) where of the portable type, have an extension cord for the operating device that is
(i)  1 220 mm or less in length, and
(ii)  permanently attached to the car crosshead so that the device cannot be removed from the car top,
(e) when in operation, solely control the movement of the car and prevent any power door operating devices from being operative at the same time, and
(f) be used only for the purpose of adjustment, inspection, maintenance and repair of the elevator or hoistway equipment.
(3)
The means for transferring the control of the elevator to the "top of car" operating device shall be on the car top and located between the car crosshead and the side of the car nearest the hoistway entrance normally used for access to the car top.
Part 3 - Emergency Services
Emergency services for new elevators, classification "F"
56
Where emergency services are provided for the operation of new elevators, the following requirements shall be complied with in addition to the requirements of the safety code:
(a) each firefighters' elevator shall be identified at the recall and alternate recall level, in accordance with the safety code, except that the hat symbol shall be a minimum 70 mm in height and the "F" classification, representing Full Firefighters' Elevator Operation, shall be shown within the shield area on the front of the hat;
(b) in-car emergency service shall be operative from the recall level;
(c) hospital Emergency Services shall not override the Emergency Recall Service unless approved by the director;
(d) engineering data and detailed specifications for materials used in cab construction and interior finishing shall be filed with the branch;
(e) where an elevator transfer lobby is proposed to be used, design arrangement and operational procedures shall be filed with the branch;
(f) elevators must be identified at both the main recall level and the alternate recall level using the signage specifications as detailed in the safety code;
(g) where there is an alternate recall level, a notice shall be provided at the central fire control panel or at another suitable location that reads "ALTERNATE LEVEL IS AT . . . . . " in letters having a minimum height of 25 mm.
[am. B.C. Regs. 42/91, s. 8; 412/95, s. 9; 29/2003, s. 8.]
Emergency services for existing elevators, classification "C"
57
(1)
When an existing elevator is voluntarily retrofitted to classification "C" emergency service, the operation shall, as a minimum, conform to the following:
(a) Automatic Emergency Recall Operation shall be installed in accordance with the safety code;
(b) Automatic Recall Operation by Smoke Sensor in Sprinklered Machine Room shall be installed in accordance with the safety code;
(c) Emergency Recall Operation to the Alternate Level shall be installed in accordance with the safety code, municipal bylaw and the requirements of this regulation;
(d) the placement, functions and operation of all required key switches shall be as specified in the safety code;
(e) elevators must be identified at both the main recall level and the alternate recall level using the signage specifications as detailed in the safety code;
(f) the location of and need for the duplicate recall switch shall be determined by the local authority having jurisdiction.
(2)
The hat symbol shall be a minimum 70 mm in height and the "C" classification, representing Converted Firefighters' Elevator Operation, shall be shown within the shield area on the front of the hat.
Part 4 - Rotating Platforms, Stage Lifts and Special Elevating Devices
Interpretation
58
In this Part
"rotating platform"
means a turntable designed to transport passengers in a circular direction around a given axis;
"special elevating device"
means a device, not excluded by the Act, that by its unusual design requires special interpretation of appropriate codes and standards by the director;
"stage lift"
means a device which is an integral part of a stage and is designed to elevate and lower personnel and equipment directly connected with a stage performance.
Designation
59
Rotating platforms, stage lifts and special elevating devices are designated as elevating devices.
Rotating platforms
60
Every rotating platform shall comply with the following specifications:
(a) a minimum running clearance of 61 cm shall be maintained at all shear points;
(b) the maximum running clearance between the rim of the rotating platform and the floor sill shall be 6 mm;
(c) the maximum rim speed shall not exceed 30 cm/sec.;
(d) all motor control circuitry shall be equipped with phase reversal protection;
(e) all rotating platforms shall be reversible from the control unit or shall incorporate in their design a reversing mechanism conveniently accessible to the attendant;
(f) a fused lock-off type disconnect switch shall be located at the control unit and a remote lockable disconnect switch shall be located convenient to each motor drive unit;
(g) a red emergency stop button shall be conveniently located in each quarter section of the platform travel or as required by the branch;
(h) the maximum platform travel, after an emergency stop has been initiated, shall be 5 cm;
(i) all control units shall be key operated and the key shall return to neutral position when released.
Stage lifts
61
Every stage lift shall comply with the following specifications:
(a) a minimum sill clearance of 6 mm shall be maintained;
(b) the maximum sill clearance shall be 12 mm;
(c) where required, equalization (stabilization) means shall be provided to prevent the platform from deflecting more than 9.5 mm from the horizontal when the rated load is placed on any section of the platform;
(d) safety locking mechanisms shall be provided on all hydraulic stage lifts that do not incorporate an anti-creep device in the design;
(e) the safety locking mechanism shall engage when the lift is not moving;
(f) an electrical interlock shall be provided to prevent energization of the operating means in the down direction while the safety locking mechanism is engaged;
(g) safety astragals shall be installed on the lower perimeter of the platform which, when engaged, will stop the lift in the down direction;
(h) a readily identifiable stop switch shall be conveniently located in the area below the platform so as to render the anti-creep device inoperative;
(i) all shear hazards shall be eliminated;
(j) all control units shall be located to afford a clear view of the lift;
(k) all control units shall be key operated and incorporate an emergency stop button;
(l) a fused lockable type disconnect switch shall be located adjacent to the control unit;
(m) chains shall not be used as a means of suspension;
(n) design and operational requirements of CSA Standard B44-00, Safety Code for Elevators, if required by the branch.
[am. B.C. Regs. 412/95, s. 10; 29/2003, s. 9.]
Special elevating device
62
Prior to the filing of design drawings and specifications as required by section 11, the director shall first be provided with particulars respecting a special elevating device to enable him to specify the codes and standards applicable to the special elevating device.
Part 5 - Amusement Rides
Interpretation
63
(1)
In this Part:
"air supported structure and pillow"
means an amusement ride that incorporates a structural and mechanical system and employs a high strength fabric or film that achieves its strength, shape and stability by pretensioning with internal air pressure, all of which are intended to provide an enclosed area for the enjoyment of those confined within;
"amusement ride"
means a device or combination of devices designed to entertain or to amuse people by physically moving them;
"amusement ride technician"
means a person capable of erecting, maintaining and dismantling amusement ride equipment;
"bumper boats"
means an amusement ride where the boats are equipped with an encircling buffer device and are designed to operate in an enclosed pool and to collide with each other;
"bumper car"
means an amusement ride where the passenger carrying units are equipped with an encircling buffer device and operate in an enclosed area consisting of a runway and where the action of passengers may cause one passenger carrying unit to collide with another;
"circular ride"
means an amusement ride whose motion is primarily rotary in a fixed or variable plane from horizontal to 45°  above horizontal;
"discharge area"
means the lower area of a waterslide or dry slide used for discharging riders;
"dispatch area"
means the area of a waterslide or dry slide that is used for dispatching riders;
"dry slide"
means an amusement ride that consists of one or more inclined channels that do not contain water and on which a person slides down, with or without a pad, from a height exceeding 4 m into a discharge area;
"existing amusement ride"
means an amusement ride for which a certificate to operate has been issued under section 3 of the Act prior to the date this regulation comes into force;
"flume ride"
means an amusement ride using water as a means of conveyance;
"kiddie automobile ride"
means a ride which replicates small automobiles that can be ridden only by children;
"log flume ride"
means any flume ride which uses a "log" as a passenger transporter;
"manufacturer's specifications"
means the specifications provided by the amusement ride manufacturer;
"new amusement ride"
means an amusement ride other than an existing amusement ride;
"operator"
means a person who has direct control over the starting, stopping or speed of an amusement ride or part thereof or is in charge of the entire operation of an amusement ride;
"park ride"
means an amusement ride other than a travelling ride;
"rotary ride"
means an amusement ride in which the passengers by the action of centrifugal force are maintained against the inner wall of a rotating vertical cylinder while at the same time the floor of the cylinder may be lowered away from the feet of the passengers;
"safety pin retainer"
means a device which retains in place a pin joint connection;
"travelling ride"
means an amusement ride that is designed for repetitious erection and dismantling;
"waterslide"
means any flume ride where a transporter is not used.
(2)
Amusement rides are prescribed as a class of elevating device.
(3)
Every amusement ride shall comply with the safety code.
[am. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 10.]
Regulation not applicable
64
The following amusement rides are exempt from this regulation:
(a) any coin operated amusement ride that is designed to accommodate one or 2 passengers;
(b) live animal rides;
(c) non-motorized rides using muscle power as a means of propulsion or operation;
(d) rides to which CSA International Z267-00, Safety Code for Amusement Rides and Devices, does not apply;
(e) any waterslide that meets any one of the following criteria:
(i)  the height of the slide from the specified water level in the receiving pool to the top of the loading platform sill is 3.05 m or less;
(ii)  the length of the flume is 30.5 m or less, with height/run ratio of 0.1 or less (6°  );
(iii)  the maximum rider velocity is not greater than 3.6 m/s;
(f) a children's carousel not exceeding a diameter of 1.5 m and not exceeding a peripheral speed of 29 m per minute;
(g) any ride that is excluded by this regulation because of height, speed, design or operation;
(h) any dry slide that does not exceed a height of 4 m;
(i) any go-cart ride.
[am. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 11.]
Registration of a new amusement ride
65
(1)
The owner of a new amusement ride shall, before operating the amusement ride in British Columbia, make application for a certificate to operate in accordance with section 6 and comply with the following additional requirements:
(a) a technical information package, or part thereof, shall be filed with the director in accordance with section 66;
(b) the amusement ride shall be erected by or under the direct supervision of the owner or the designated representative of the owner;
(c) after the amusement ride is erected, the owner shall carry out or cause to be carried out an examination of the amusement ride to ensure that the amusement ride complies with the filed technical information package that relates to the ride and complies with the Act and this regulation;
(d) the amusement ride shall be inspected by an inspector and found by the inspector to be in a safe operating condition and in compliance with the Act and this regulation.
(2)
Where the requirements of subsection (1) are satisfied, the director shall issue to the owner a certificate to operate the amusement ride, with or without conditions as the director considers necessary, and an identification plate.
Technical information package
66
(1)
Every technical information package, or part thereof, shall be completed in the English language and submitted in duplicate to the director.
(2)
The technical information package for a new amusement ride or a major alteration to an amusement ride shall, unless exempted by the director, include the following:
(a) manufacturer's specifications with respect to the amusement ride;
(b) environmental design parameters, including static loading, dynamic loading and wind and earthquake conditions;
(c) a site or typical layout of the amusement ride that shows the operating environment, including clearance requirements, fences, barriers and structures in the vicinity of the amusement ride, loading and unloading areas, tracks and foundations;
(d) drawings that contain plan and elevation views and cross-sectional areas to show the general arrangement of the amusement ride, materials used, major components, dimensions and passenger carrying units;
(e) drawings showing details of the safety features used to keep the passenger inside the passenger carrying unit during the operation of the amusement ride;
(f) instructions with respect to erection and dismantling of the amusement ride;
(g) operational instructions with respect to daily inspections, loading and unloading of the amusement ride, communication between operators, attendants and passengers, environmental conditions that could affect the safe operation of the amusement ride, procedures to be followed during an emergency shutdown of the amusement ride, procedures to be followed when evacuating the amusement ride, and duties and responsibilities of operators and attendants;
(h) a maintenance manual for the amusement ride that contains
(i)  schematics of the hydraulic and electrical systems showing all operational and safety related components and their characteristics together with sequence of operation,
(ii)  instructions with respect to the method and interval of inspections, tests, lubrication and replacement of parts,
(iii)  manufacturer's list of parts requiring periodic replacement and inspection in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, and
(iv)  the manufacturer's torque table for fasteners;
(i) a report of a load and field test carried out on the amusement ride by the manufacturer;
(j) the seal of a professional engineer verifying the manufacturer's procedures, design drawings and specifications;
(k) a statement by a professional engineer that the design of the amusement ride, including the parts and features not specifically identified in the technical information package, and the procedures and instructions laid down in the technical information package, except for any variance indicated, are in compliance with the Act and this regulation.
(3)
A copy of the technical information package and any amendments to it, as filed with the branch, shall be kept by the owner.
Certificate to operate a used travelling ride after 1990
67
Where no previous certificate to operate has been issued, an owner who applies on or after January 1, 1991 for a certificate to operate a used travelling ride shall, in addition to the requirements of section 6,
(a) submit documentation to the branch stating that all manufacturer's recommended non-destructive testing programs have been carried out prior to application for registration,
(b) submit a statement to the branch verifying that the manufacturer's safety and maintenance bulletins have been complied with,
(c) complete an acceptance inspection, and
(d) verify that design and fabrication complies with the intent of the Act and this regulation.
Amusement ride contractor's licence
68
(1)
An application for a Class AM contractor's licence or a renewal thereof shall be made in accordance with section 7.
(2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1), no Class AM contractor's licence shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant is, or has in his or her employ,
(a) an amusement ride technician who is capable of maintaining each amusement ride to be operated by the applicant,
(b) an amusement ride technician who is capable of erecting each amusement ride to be operated by the applicant, and
(c) a person who has sufficient knowledge of the Act and this regulation.
Changes and alterations
69
(1)
An owner who proposes to make a change to the design or specifications of an amusement ride shall ensure that
(a) the change is in compliance with the manufacturer's specifications, and
(b) the change is in conformance with the Act and this regulation.
(2)
Notwithstanding section 1 (5), in this Part the following alterations are deemed to be a major alteration under the Act and a technical information package, as required by section 66, shall be submitted to the branch:
(a) increasing the manufacturer's maximum capacity or speed;
(b) changing the load bearing structure of an amusement ride in a manner that would reduce the original strength of the structure;
(c) changing the source of power for the main drive or control mechanism of an amusement ride, except with the manufacturer's approval;
(d) changing the method of guiding the passenger carrying units of an amusement ride;
(e) changing the classification of an amusement ride;
(f) relocating an amusement ride that was designed as a park ride;
(g) changing an amusement ride from ground mounted to trailer mounted.
Operators and attendants
70
(1)
An owner shall appoint a sufficient number of operators and attendants to ensure compliance with the manufacturer's operating manual.
(2)
The owner shall ensure that each operator and attendant is readily identifiable by the use of a name tag or other visible identification.
(3)
The owner shall ensure that each operator and attendant has sufficient knowledge, training and experience so that
(a) each operator and attendant is aware of the hazardous situations with respect to persons using the amusement ride to which the operator or attendant is assigned,
(b) each operator of an amusement ride is able to operate the amusement ride safely without supervision, and
(c) each attendant is able to carry out his or her responsibilities without supervision.
(4)
The owner shall immediately remove from duty an operator or attendant who is found to be intoxicated or drug impaired.
(5)
An operator shall be responsible for the safe operation and use of the amusement ride or part thereof to which the operator is assigned and shall not
(a) operate or initiate the operation of an amusement ride to which the operator is assigned unless the operator is signalled by an attendant that the amusement ride is ready for operation or the operator is otherwise satisfied that all necessary safety measures in the circumstances have been taken to ensure the safe operation of the ride,
(b) operate more than one amusement ride at a time, and
(c) while on duty, leave unattended the controls of an amusement ride to which the operator is assigned without taking measures to prevent the unauthorized operation of the amusement ride.
(6)
An attendant shall
(a) be located in the area or at the position designated to the attendant by the operator of the amusement ride to which the attendant is assigned,
(b) be responsible for the safe functioning and use of the amusement ride or component that is within the scope of the attendant's duties as assigned by the operator and as set out in this regulation,
(c) ensure that persons move safely within the confines of the amusement ride to which the attendant is assigned,
(d) ensure that persons using the amusement ride to which the attendant is assigned are properly instructed with respect to the use of the area and components under the attendant's supervision, and
(e) ensure that all safety features of the amusement ride to which the attendant is assigned are secured prior to giving a signal to operate to an operator or to a person using the amusement ride.
Erection and maintenance
71
(1)
An owner shall ensure that
(a) the erection of the amusement ride is done in accordance with the procedures set out in the manufacturer's manual,
(b) no erection or maintenance of the amusement ride is done unless the work is performed by an amusement ride technician,
(c) no amusement ride technician is assigned work that is beyond the scope of his or her experience and training, and
(d) the amusement ride is not used or operated unless it is maintained in accordance with the procedures set out in the ride manufacturer's manual.
(2)
Prior to operation, the owner shall ensure that each amusement ride is maintained in a safe operating condition having regard to
(a) the inherent quality and condition of the amusement ride,
(b) the manufacturer's recommendations for maintenance of the amusement ride, and
(c) the frequency and method of usage of the amusement ride.
(3)
The owner shall maintain each operating amusement ride by
(a) checking and examining all parts and functions at intervals that are necessary to ensure the safe operation of the amusement ride in accordance with the manufacturer's manual,
(b) cleaning, lubricating and adjusting all parts at intervals sufficient to ensure the safe operation of the amusement ride in accordance with the manufacturer's manual,
(c) repairing or replacing worn, defective, damaged or broken parts on the amusement ride in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, and
(d) carrying out all safety related directives issued by the manufacturer with respect to the amusement ride.
(4)
Where the maintenance referred to in subsection (3) (a) is carried out on an amusement ride, the owner who operates the amusement ride shall ensure that it is in safe operating condition.
Notification of defective parts or components
72
Where an owner or manufacturer of an amusement ride discovers a defect in a part or component of an amusement ride that is related to the safe operation or usage of the amusement ride, the owner or manufacturer, as the case may be, shall forthwith notify the director, in writing, stating the nature of the defect and the details of any action taken with respect to the part or component.
Operation
73
(1)
An owner shall ensure that
(a) the amusement ride is operated in accordance with this regulation and the operational instructions,
(b) before the amusement ride is opened to the public each day it is inspected and tested in accordance with this regulation and the manufacturer's recommendations, and
(c) a log book is kept and maintained up to date.
(2)
Each log book for an amusement ride, in addition to a record of daily inspections and tests, shall contain
(a) results of all inspections and tests on the amusement ride,
(b) daily operating records of the amusement ride, including all data concerning incidents and accidents involving the amusement ride, and
(c) maintenance records, including all data concerning changes and improvements carried out on the amusement ride,
and each record shall be signed by the person performing the inspection or test or by that person's supervisor.
(3)
Each log book shall be retained for a period of at least 6 years from the date of the last entry in the log book.
(4)
That portion of the log book that covers the 12 month period previous to the date of the last entry in the log book shall be kept on file by the owner.
(5)
The owner shall ensure that each operator and attendant is trained to carry out shutdown and evacuation procedures in the event of lightning, hail storms, wind storms, earthquakes or any disaster that might be expected for the area.
(6)
Self-propelled passenger carrying units of an amusement ride that are used on a track simultaneously shall all be operated by the same power source.
Flexible hoses and couplings
74
(1)
Where the hydraulic mechanism of an amusement ride is fitted with a flexible hose and fitting assembly, it shall
(a) have a bursting strength equal to or greater than the manufacturer's specifications,
(b) not be reused if one time hose fittings are used, and
(c) be permanently marked to show
(i)  the manufacturer of the hose and fitting assembly,
(ii)  the type of hose and fitting assembly,
(iii)  the factory test pressure of the hose and fitting assembly, and
(iv)  the minimum bending radius of the hose.
(2)
Every flexible coupling that is used on an amusement ride shall be so designed and constructed that the failure of the sealing element used with the coupling will not permit the separation of the parts connected.
(3)
Every device or means that is readily accessible to the public and that is used for preventing the separation of parts on an amusement ride shall be removable only with the use of tools and not by hand operated quick release levers.
Pin joint connections
75
(1)
Every pin joint connection on an amusement ride shall have a factor of safety equal to or greater than the manufacturer's specifications.
(2)
Where a single pin joint connection could create an unsafe condition on a part of an amusement ride, a safety retainer shall be provided.
Wire rope and rope fastening design
76
The factor of safety for wire rope and rope fastenings for wire rope used on an amusement ride shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
Wire rope replacement
77
A wire rope that is used on an amusement ride shall be replaced with a new wire rope where
(a) 6 randomly distributed wires are broken in one rope lay or 3 wires are broken in one strand in one rope lay of the wire rope and the failure of the wire rope could create an unsafe condition on a part of the amusement ride,
(b) there is more than one broken wire in one rope lay of the wire rope and the wire rope bears the entire load of a passenger carrying unit on the amusement ride,
(c) corrosion exists and 50% of the replacement criteria of paragraph (a) or (b) is exceeded,
(d) kinking, crushing, birdcaging or other damage results in distortion to the structure of the wire rope, or
(e) a reduction of 6% or more occurs in the nominal diameter of the wire rope.
Link chain design
78
(1)
The factor of safety for link chain used on an amusement ride shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(2)
Where the safety of the passengers in a passenger carrying unit of an amusement ride is dependent on a single link chain, a safety retainer shall be used together with the link chain.
(3)
Link chain that is used as a safety retainer or in a stress bearing application on an amusement ride shall
(a) be certified by the chain manufacturer as to its load carrying capacity, and
(b) not be constructed of twisted wire or stamped links.
(4)
Each fastener that is used with a link chain on an amusement ride shall have a load carrying capacity that is at least equal to the link chain to which it is fastened.
(5)
Cold shuts, quick links, shackles or connecting links shall not be added to the link chain that is used as a safety retainer or in a stress bearing application on an amusement ride.
(6)
Subsection (5) does not apply to fasteners that are used as end fasteners on a link chain.
(7)
A link chain that is used on an amusement ride shall be replaced with a new link chain where
(a) a reduction occurs in the original diameter of a link in the chain equal to or exceeding the amusement ride manufacturer's specifications,
(b) a link is twisted or distorted,
(c) corrosion occurs in a link to a degree that affects the factor of safety required for the link chain,
(d) the link chain is used for a purpose other than that for which it is intended to be used, or
(e) the link chain is used to carry a load in excess of its capacity.
Fencing and clearances
79
(1)
Protective fencing shall be provided for each amusement ride where it is possible for a person to fall more than 600 mm off a platform.
(2)
Protective fencing shall be provided for each amusement ride to prevent persons other than those authorized by the operator or owner to have access to an area where
(a) parts of the amusement ride are moving at a speed that exceed either 8 km per hour or 7 revolutions per minute,
(b) the amusement ride or passenger travels at less than 2.5 m above ground level,
(c) the normal operational mode of the amusement ride is potentially hazardous to bystanders, or
(d) guy wires or braces are used on the amusement ride that are not clearly marked with streamers or other similar devices.
(3)
Where fencing is required under this section, other than in areas restricted to children only, it shall be at least 1 070 mm in height.
(4)
In areas restricted to children only, fencing shall be at least 600 mm in height and shall reject a 150 mm diameter ball.
(5)
Each entrance that provides the public with access to or egress from the amusement ride shall be provided with a means of preventing persons from inadvertently entering the ride area.
(6)
Where fencing is located near any moving part of an amusement ride, it shall be at least 1 070 mm horizontally from any moving part.
Guards
80
Every mounting, drive mechanism, structure or other component of an amusement ride that could cause bodily harm or become entangled with a passenger or the clothes of a passenger shall be provided with a protective guard.
Passageways
81
Where 2 or more amusement rides are adjacent to one another and the public is permitted access between the amusement rides, each amusement ride shall be placed so that there is a clear space or walkway of at least
(a) 4 m between a part of an amusement ride that is not fenced and a moving part of an adjacent amusement ride, or
(b) 3 m between a part of an amusement ride that is not fenced and a fixed part of an adjacent amusement ride or a fence around an adjacent amusement ride.
Protection
82
Those parts of passenger carrying units on an amusement ride that are designed to come into contact with other passenger carrying units on the same ride shall be equipped with impact absorbing devices.
Support and blocking
83
(1)
Every amusement ride shall be erected
(a) on a surface that will support safely all loads that are imposed during its operation and that could reasonably be expected due to the environmental conditions in the locality where the amusement ride is erected, and
(b) in such a manner as to be stable under all operating conditions and under all environmental conditions that could reasonably be expected in the locality where the amusement ride is erected.
(2)
Bricks or hollow cement blocks shall not be used to stabilize an amusement ride.
(3)
Subsection (2) does not apply to the use of bricks or hollow cement blocks to stabilize a platform, stair or a ramp that forms part of an amusement ride that is independent structurally from the amusement ride.
(4)
Blocks, other than brick or hollow cement blocks, that are used in the support of an amusement ride shall, where the blocks are more than 2 tiers high, be cribbed or crossed.
(5)
Where only one or 2 tiers of blocks are used in the support of an amusement ride, the height of the blocking shall not exceed the total width of the base of the blocks being used.
(6)
Blocking that is used in the support of an amusement ride shall be sized so that the bearing surface of the blocking is at least equal to or greater than the bearing surface of the support pad of the amusement ride.
Kiddie automobile rides
84
Every kiddie automobile ride shall
(a) be limited or governed so as not to exceed 15 km per hour,
(b) where the ride is guided, be designed so that each passenger carrying unit will stop at the loading and unloading areas without assistance from a passenger,
(c) have a runway that provides sufficient grip to enable each passenger carrying unit to be driven safely and to stop within a distance as specified by the manufacturer, and
(d) have the runway monitored during operation.
Bumper cars
85
(1)
Every passenger carrying unit on a bumper car ride shall
(a) be fitted with an encircling buffer as described by the manufacturer's specifications,
(b) when electrically operated, be provided with a device to maintain continuous electrical contact at a pressure in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, and
(c) have the steering wheel and its hub and all exposed components that are located between the seat and the steering wheel padded in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(2)
Every area surrounding a bumper car runway shall be fitted with crash borders that have
(a) a top edge that is not located lower than the top edge of the encircling buffer on the passenger carrying units, and
(b) a bottom edge that is not located higher than the bottom edge of the encircling buffer on the passenger carrying units.
(3)
Every electrical bumper car runway shall consist of segments that are undamaged, even, polished and clean and that make electrical contact with adjacent segments without sparking.
(4)
Every current grid that supplies power to a bumper car ride shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(5)
Every current collector pole that transfers power from the current grid to a bumper car on a bumper car ride shall
(a) maintain a force on the current grid at the point of contact in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications,
(b) be anchored to the bumper car so as to prevent the pole from falling down during normal operation of the bumper car ride,
(c) be insulated, other than where it contacts the current grid, so as to prevent a person from getting an electric shock,
(d) be provided with padding for a distance of at least 600 mm vertically from the top of the back of the seat of the passenger carrying unit so as to minimize risk of injury to a passenger, and
(e) have a maximum voltage of 60 volts AC or DC.
Circular rides
86
Where a passenger can control the elevation of a passenger carrying unit, the control equipment of each amusement ride shall
(a) be so designed that the operator can override the passenger's control,
(b) allow elevation of the passenger carrying unit only after the rotating mechanism of the passenger carrying unit has been started, and
(c) allow sufficient time for the passenger carrying unit to be lowered to its lowest position before the rotating mechanism of the passenger carrying unit is stopped.
Rotary ride
87
Every rotary ride shall be so designed that
(a) the floor and inside cylinder walls are free of protrusions and indentations,
(b) the top rim of the cylinder is inaccessible to passengers and spectators, and
(c) the entry and exit doors in the cylinder are fitted with locking mechanisms specified by the manufacturer.
Repealed
88
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 12.]
Permanent foundation
89
Every permanent foundation that is built specifically for an amusement ride shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the B.C. Building Code, where applicable, and the manufacturer's specifications.
Waterslides — general
90
(1)
Design specifications shall show the maximum allowable rider velocity for each flume.
(2)
The support structure, flumes and foundations shall be designed to include provision for lightning protection and lightning arresters in accordance with the B.C. Electrical Code Regulation 2002, B.C. Reg. 258/2002, except as otherwise permitted by that regulation.
(3)
All work shall be carried out in a workmanlike manner.
(4)
All turns shall be sufficiently banked to keep the riders safely within the flumes.
(5)
All associated electrical devices and systems, such as underwater lighting, shall be inspected and approved by the authority having jurisdiction prior to the issuing of an initial certificate to operate.
[am. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 13.]
Waterslides — guards and safety
91
(1)
All surfaces where riders may walk shall be slip resistant.
(2)
All walkway surfaces shall be sloped a minimum of 10 mm per metre and a maximum of 50 mm per metre.
(3)
All walkways, paths and aisles shall be located a minimum of one metre from the edge of the flumes or protected by an acceptable barricade.
(4)
The pool dimensions shall be designed to safely accommodate the discharge pattern of the rider from the flume.
(5)
All surfaces of the flume section shall be maintained to be free of cracks or sharp edges and the joints between the sections of the flumes shall be flush.
(6)
All water openings shall be sufficiently guarded to prevent riders from being trapped or entangled.
(7)
The dispatch areas shall be so designed and maintained as to control the riders in a safe and acceptable manner.
Waterslides — water levels, water quality and flow control
92
(1)
The splash pool shall be a minimum of one metre in depth in the discharge area.
(2)
The water shall be kept sufficiently clear at all times to enable a person to see the bottom of the splash pool.
(3)
A suitable means shall be provided to individually control the rate of water flow on each slide and shall include a method of locking the control unit in any position.
(4)
The water quality shall meet the standards of the authority having jurisdiction.
Waterslides — communication and signs
93
(1)
A communication system between the flume dispatch area, the discharge area and the office or permanently manned control centre shall be installed and maintained to provide reliable communication at all times.
(2)
A telephone shall be installed and kept operable in the office or permanently manned control centre at all times in case of emergency.
(3)
A list of phone numbers shall be kept in the area of the telephone including police, fire, ambulance, hospital and inspection authorities.
(4)
Appropriate signs or symbols shall be posted indicating
(a) depth of water in discharge pools,
(b) prohibition of running or horseplay,
(c) prohibition of sliding headfirst or on stomach,
(d) prohibition of bunching up on the flumes,
(e) prohibition of standing up on the flumes, and
(f) prohibition of diving into discharge pool.
(5)
Each flume shall be identified.
Waterslides — log book
94
(1)
A log book shall be maintained with daily entries to record water quality tests and all incidents and unusual occurrences.
(2)
The log book shall be of the type where pages are consecutively numbered and are non-removable, and must be available for inspection at all times.
Waterslides — control and operations
95
(1)
Each operator and attendant shall be trained for their specific duties and at least one operator, competent in first aid and lifesaving techniques, shall be on duty at all times of ride operation.
(2)
A sufficient number of amusement ride operators and attendants shall be in attendance at all times of operation to ensure compliance with this regulation.
(3)
The dispatch area shall be supervised at all times while the flumes are in operation to ensure that the riders are dispatched with adequate and safe spacing.
(4)
A means of crowd control as specified in the manufacturer's operating manual must be available at the dispatch area to ensure a smooth and safe operation.
(5)
In restricted usage locations such as hotels or private clubs, control and operating procedures which deviate from the requirements of subsections (1) and (2) must be submitted to the branch for acceptance.
(6)
Written procedures shall be established and amusement ride operators and attendants shall be trained to prevent all persons from using the waterslides during lightning, hail storms, wind storms, earthquakes or any disaster that might be expected for the area.
(7)
The discharge area shall be supervised at all times while the flumes are in operation and where the discharge area is a splash pool it shall be supervised by a person competent in life saving techniques.
(8)
The use of life jackets, when worn by riders, shall be approved by the slide manufacturer.
Part 6 - Temporary Elevating Devices
Temporary elevating devices
96
Temporary elevating devices are classified as follows:
(a) personnel hoists installed in accordance with the National Standard of Canada CAN/CSA-Z185-M87, Safety Code for Personnel Hoists;
(b) Section 5.10 elevators installed in accordance with Section 5.10, Elevators Used for Construction, CSA Standard B44-00, Safety Code for Elevators.
[en. B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 11; am. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 14.]
Requirements for personnel hoists
97
(1)
A swing stage, window washer, scaffolding or similar type equipment must not be located within 3 m (10 feet) of a personnel hoistway unless guarded in accordance with the safety code.
(2)
A personnel hoist must not be operated if
(a) the wind speed exceeds 60 km per hour (35 mph), not including gust wind speed, or
(b) operation is deemed unsafe by a licensed operator.
(3)
The personnel hoist operator must perform a daily routine safety inspection and must complete an inspection check list.
(4)
The personnel hoist contractor must perform a hoist extension examination and submit to the director a hoist extension affidavit for alternate hoist extensions, commencing with the first extension after the initial acceptance by the branch.
[en. B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 11.]
Requirements for Section 5.10 elevators
98
(1)
A Section 5.10 elevator must be accepted by an elevator inspector before being put into operation.
(2)
A Section 5.10 elevator may be accepted without special emergency service.
[en. B.C. Reg. 412/95, s. 11; am. B.C. Regs. 13/97, s. 2; 29/2003, s. 15.]
Part 7 - Director's Powers to Exempt from Regulations
Powers to exempt from regulations
99
(1)
In circumstances in which strict compliance with the regulations would produce undue hardship but in which the purposes of the Act may otherwise be met by substituting other requirements, the director may exempt persons and equipment that the director, by order, identifies from any requirement of the regulations respecting access to and egress from elevating devices.
(2)
If the director grants an exemption under subsection (1), the director may substitute other requirements in order to satisfy the purposes of the Act.
[en. B.C. Reg. 239/2000.]
Schedule A
[en. B.C. Reg. 79/99.]
Fees
Nature of Fee or Circumstance
Fee
1
Payable by an owner or contractor for an acceptance inspection of a new elevating device or an acceptance inspection of a completed major alteration in the case of
(a)
a passenger or freight traction elevator serving
(i)
10 floors or less
$268
(ii)
each additional 10 floors or less
78
(b)
a passenger or freight hydraulic elevator
246
(c)
a manlift
145
(d)
a dumbwaiter
112
(e)
an escalator or a moving walk
223
(f)
an escalator load test
123
(g)
a handicapped lift
89
(h)
a personnel hoist
(i)
serving 10 floors or less
246
(ii)
serving each additional 10 floors or less
78
(iii)
for acceptance of each travel extension
123
(i)
a freight platform lift
123
(j)
a stage lift
246
(k)
an amusement ride
201
(l)
a rotating platform
212
(m)
a special elevating device
268
(n)
an incline lift
246
2
Payable by an owner or contractor for a special inspection of an elevating device
3
Payable by an owner or contractor, for each hour or part of an hour spent by an inspector either before, during or after an inspection
(a)
hourly rate
$89
(b)
other expenses are additional
at cost
4
Payable by an owner for an annual certificate to operate an elevating device in the case of
(a)
a passenger elevator or freight elevator
(i)
10 floors or less
$145
(ii)
each additional 10 floors or less
56
(b)
a manlift
78
(c)
a dumbwaiter
78
(d)
an escalator or moving walk
112
(e)
a handicapped lift
67
(f)
a freight platform lift
89
(g)
a stage lift
123
(h)
an amusement ride
89
(i)
a rotating platform
89
(j)
a special elevating device
179
(k)
an incline lift
123
5
Payable by a contractor for initial licence and each renewal thereof
(a)
Class A
$670
(b)
Class RA
502
(c)
Class M
424
(d)
Class C
424
(e)
Class H
246
(f)
Class AM
123
(g)
Class IC
123
(h)
Class MR
471
6
Payable by a contractor for a new licence acquired after June 30 in the year of issue for
(a)
Class A6
$335
(b)
Class RA6
251
(c)
Class M6
212
(d)
Class C6
212
(e)
Class H6
123
(f)
Class AM6
67
(g)
Class IC6
67
(h)
Class MR6
235
7
Payable by an applicant for an operator's licence
$17
8
Payable upon submission of drawings and
specifications by a registered contractor for
(a)
a passenger elevator or a freight elevator
$179
(b)
a manlift
123
(c)
a dumbwaiter
123
(d)
an escalator or a moving walk
179
(e)
a handicapped lift
78
(f)
a personnel hoist
179
(g)
a freight platform lift
123
(h)
a stage lift
179
(i)
an amusement ride
123
(j)
a rotating platform
123
(k)
the fling of an elevating device component
56
(l)
a major alteration of an elevating device
123
(m)
a minor alteration of an elevating device
67
(n)
a special elevating device
179
(o)
an incline lift
179
9
Payable by an applicant for
(a)
a true copy of an inspector's report
$45
(b)
a duplicate installation plate
56
Schedule B
[en. B.C. Reg. 29/2003, s. 16.]
Safety Codes and Standards
CANADIAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION STANDARDS
Item
Column 1
Column 2
1
CSA Standard, B44-00
Safety Code for Elevators with the following changes:
Exclusion of Clause c6.1.3.3.5, c6.1.3.3.6 (c), and Note (c6.1.3.3.7) and (c6.1.3.3.8);
Exclusion of Note (c8.4) and (c8.5);
Exclusion of Section 8.11, except for Clause 8.11.4.2.19 and 8.11.4.2.20 for the purpose of acceptance and special inspections, exclusion of Note (c8.11.4.2.19) and (c8.11.4.2.20), and removal of the words "installed under ASME A17.1d-2000" from the first line of Clause 8.11.4.2.20;
Inclusion of Appendix "J" as mandatory.
2
CSA Standard B311-02
Safety Code for Manlifts.
3
CSA International B355-00
Lifts for Persons with Physical Disabilities.
4
B.C. Electrical Code Regulation 2002, B.C. Reg. 258/2002
CSA Standard, C22.1-02 Canadian Electrical Code, Part I, as amended for British Columbia.
5
National Standard of Canada CAN/CSA Z185-M87
Safety Code for Personnel Hoists.
6
CSA International Z267-00
Safety Code for Amusement Rides and Devices.
AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (ANSI) STANDARDS
Item
Column 1
Column 2
1
ANSI A10.22-1990
Safety Requirements for Rope-Guided and Nonguided Workers' Hoists — American National Standard for Construction and Demolition Operations
Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 177/85.
[Provisions of the
Elevating Devices Safety Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 110, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 32]
