"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Local Government Act
Water Conservation Plumbing Regulation
B.C. Reg. 198/2005
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 73/2008, effective September 5, 2008.
B.C. Reg. 198/2005
M81/2005
Deposited March 31, 2005
effective September 30, 2005
Local Government Act
Water Conservation Plumbing Regulation
Maximum flow rates
1
The flow rates of fittings that supply water to plumbing fixtures must not exceed the maximum flow rate at the test pressures listed for that fitting in the following Table for Group C, D, and E occupancies as defined in the British Columbia Building Code.
Maximum Flow Rates for Supply Fittings
Fittings
Maximum Flow (L/min)
Test Pressure (kPa)
Lavatory Faucet
Kitchen Faucet
Shower Head
8.3
8.3
9.5
415
415
550
Maximum water consumption
2
The flush cycle for the installation of a new water closet or urinal provided in a Group C, D, or E occupancy, as defined in the British Columbia Building Code, must not exceed the flush cycle listed for that fixture in the following table, titled Maximum Flush Cycle Table 1.
Maximum Flush Cycle Table 1
Fixture
Litres
Water Closet (Tank Type)
Water Closet (Direct Flush)
Urinal (Tank Type)
Urinal (Direct Flush)
13.25
13.25
5.7
5.7
Maximum water consumption in certain geographic locations
3
Despite the requirements of section 2, within the boundaries of the following geographic locations, the installation of a new water closet or urinal in all occupancy classifications as described in the British Columbia Building Code must not exceed the flush cycle listed for that fixture in the table following paragraph (ll), titled Maximum Flush Cycle Table 2:
(a) all electoral areas of the Cowichan Valley Regional District;
(b) all electoral areas of the Regional District of Central Okanagan;
(c) all electoral areas of the Regional District of Nanaimo;
(d) electoral areas C and D of the North Okanagan Regional District;
(e) electoral areas A, C, D, E, F and H of the Okanagan-Similkameen Regional District;
(f) Municipality of Bowen Island;
(g) Capital Regional District;
(h) City of Dawson Creek;
(i) City of Enderby;
(j) City of Kamloops;
(k) City of Kimberly;
(l) City of Merritt;
(m) City of Nelson;
(n) City of Vernon;
(o) District of Campbell River;
(p) District of Coldstream;
(q) District of Houston;
(r) District of Lantzville;
(s) District of Logan Lake;
(t) District of Mission;
(u) District of North Cowichan;
(v) Greater Vancouver Water District (excluding those areas not subject to regulations established pursuant to the
Local Government Act
);
(w) Town of Comox;
(x) Town of Gibsons;
(y) Town of Ladysmith;
(z) Town of Oliver;
(aa) Township of Spallumcheen;
(bb) Village of Ashcroft;
(cc) Village of Chase;
(dd) Village of Clinton;
(ee) Village of Cumberland;
(ff) Village of Kaslo;
(gg) Village of Lumby;
(hh) Village of Lytton;
(ii) Village of Pemberton;
(jj) Village of Radium Hot Springs;
(kk) Village of Sayward;
(ll) Village of Telkwa.
Maximum Flush Cycle Table 2
Fixture
Litres
Water Closet (Tank Type)
Water Closet (Direct Flush)
Urinal (Tank Type)
Urinal (Direct Flush)
6.0
6.0
5.7
5.7
[am. B.C. Reg. 55/2007, s. 1.]
Identification
4
(1) 							Watersaver water closets must be marked with
(a) WS,
(b) 13.25 LPF,
(c) WS/13.25LPF, or
(d) x LPF which indicates the actual confirmed test value (in litres per flush) and where "x" is equal to or less than 13.25.
(2)
Low Consumption water closets must be marked with
(a) LC,
(b) 6 LPF,
(c) LC/6LPF, or
(d) x LPF which indicates the actual confirmed test value (in litres per flush) and where "x" is equal to or less than 6.
Flush tanks
5
The water supply to urinal flush tanks equipped for automatic flushing must be controlled with a timing device in order to limit operation to the period during which the building is normally occupied.
Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 290/2004.
[Provisions of the
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 692]
