View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 24 — PROVINCIAL PROTECTED AREAS
24.1.0  GENERAL
24.1.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation may make proposals to
British Columbia from time to time to establish new Provincial Protected Areas within its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Area.
24.1.2
Subject to 24.2.1 and 24.3.1, nothing in this Agreement
obligates British Columbia to establish a new Provincial Protected Area or maintain the
designation of any Provincial Protected Areas.
24.1.3
British Columbia will Consult with a Maa‑nulth First Nation
regarding the creation of new Provincial Protected Areas in its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Area.
24.1.4
British Columbia and Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement regarding arrangements for
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations' participation in the management planning of
Artlish Caves Provincial Park, Big Bunsby Marine Provincial Park, Brooks Peninsula
Provincial Park, Dixie Cove Marine Provincial Park, Rugged Point Marine Provincial Park,
Tahsish-Kwois Provincial Park, Checleset Bay Ecological Reserve, Clanninick Creek Ecological
Reserve, Solander Island Ecological Reserve, Tahsish River Ecological Reserve, and Power
River Watershed Protected Area.
24.1.5
British Columbia and Uchucklesaht Tribe will negotiate and
attempt to reach agreement regarding arrangements for Uchucklesaht Tribe's participation in
the management planning of Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in Paawats)
Protected
Area.
24.1.6
If British Columbia creates a new Provincial Protected Area
within a Maa‑nulth First Nation Area, British Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement regarding arrangements for that
Maa‑nulth First Nation's participation in the management planning of that new Provincial
Protected Area.
24.2.0  POWER RIVER WATERSHED PROTECTED AREA
24.2.1
On the Effective Date, British Columbia will establish the
Power River Watershed Protected Area as a Provincial Protected Area.
24.2.2
Subject to 21.3.0, the Power River Watershed Protected Area is
managed by British Columbia and, unless otherwise determined by British Columbia, has no
road access.
24.2.3
For greater certainty, British Columbia's authority and
responsibilities in respect of the Power River Watershed Protected Area will
continue.
24.3.0  THUNDERBIRD'S NEST
(T'IITSK'IN PAAWATS)
PROTECTED AREA
24.3.1
On the Effective Date, British Columbia will establish
Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in Paawats)
Protected Area as a Provincial
Protected Area.
24.3.2
Subject to 21.3.0, the Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in
Paawats)
Protected Area is managed by British Columbia as a Provincial Protected
Area.
24.3.3
Unless Uchucklesaht Tribe and British Columbia otherwise
agree, British Columbia will continue Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in Paawats)
Protected Area as a Provincial Protected Area.
24.3.4
Notwithstanding 24.3.3, British Columbia may amend the
boundaries of Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in Paawats)
Protected Area from
time to time provided the total area of Thunderbird's Nest
(T'iitsk'in
Paawats)
Protected Area does not decrease by more than 100
hectares.
24.4.0  QUIN-E-EX LANDS
24.4.1
Immediately after the Effective Date, the estate in fee simple
in the Quin-E-Ex Lands is transferred from Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations to
British Columbia free and clear of all Interests, ownership of the estate in fee simple in
the Quin‑E‑Ex Lands vests in British Columbia and the Quin‑E‑Ex Lands cease to be the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations.
24.4.2
Upon the transfer of the Quin‑E‑Ex Lands to British Columbia
in accordance with 24.4.1, Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect the removal of the
Quin-E-Ex Lands from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h'
First Nations.
24.4.3
After the Effective Date British Columbia will amend the
boundaries of Brooks Peninsula Provincial Park to add the Quin‑E‑Ex Lands to Brooks
Peninsula Provincial Park.
24.5.0  PUBLIC PLANNING PROCESSES
24.5.1
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may participate in any public
management planning process established in respect of any Provincial Protected Area that is
wholly or partially within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area, in accordance with procedures
established by British Columbia for that public management planning
processes.
24.5.2
British Columbia may proceed with any process contemplated by
24.5.1 even if the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation does not participate in that
process.
24.5.3
Nothing in this Agreement obligates British Columbia to
undertake a public management planning process with respect to any Provincial Protected
Area.
24.5.4
British Columbia will provide to a Maa‑nulth First Nation any
draft public management plan that may be prepared for a Provincial Protected Area that is
wholly or partially within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area.
24.5.5
A Maa‑nulth First Nation receiving a draft public management
plan in accordance with 24.5.4 may provide written recommendations to British Columbia in
relation to such plan and any recommendations so received may be made public by British
Columbia.
24.5.6
British Columbia will Consult with a Maa‑nulth First Nation in
the preparation or modification of any management plan for a Provincial Protected Area
wholly or partially within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of that Maa‑nulth First Nation in
relation to:
a. the depiction, if appropriate, of Nuu‑chah‑nulth culture or heritage in the
Provincial Protected Area; and
b. the importance of Nuu‑chah‑nulth culture and heritage to the purpose of the
Provincial Protected Area.
24.6.0  GATHERING
24.6.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to gather Plants and
the boughs, burls and roots of Timber for Domestic Purposes in Provincial Protected Areas
wholly or partially within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of that Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
24.6.2
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Gather Plants is limited
by measures necessary for conservation, public health or public safety.
24.6.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Right to Gather Plants.
24.6.4
A Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Gather Plants may be
exercised by every Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation except as otherwise provided
under a law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Government.
24.6.5
British Columbia may authorize uses of, or Dispose of,
Provincial Protected Areas and any authorized use or Disposition may affect the methods,
times and locations of the gathering of Plants and the boughs, burls and roots of Timber
under this Agreement, provided that British Columbia ensures that those authorized uses or
Dispositions do not deny a Maa‑nulth First Nation the reasonable opportunity to gather
Plants and the boughs, burls and roots of Timber under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Gather Plants.
24.6.6
The Minister may, for conservation, public health or public
safety reasons, require the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation to prepare a Gathering
Plan.
24.6.7
If the Minister requires a Gathering Plan in accordance with
24.6.6, that Gathering Plan will include:
a. gathering locations;
b. times of gathering; and
c. the Plant species, boughs, burls or roots of Timber intended to be
gathered.
24.6.8
A Gathering Plan prepared in accordance with 24.6.7 will be
submitted by that Maa‑nulth First Nation to the Minister for approval.
24.6.9
That Maa‑nulth First Nation will exercise its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Right to Gather Plants in accordance with any approved Gathering Plan or Provincial
Protected Area management plan.
24.6.10
No Maa‑nulth‑aht is required to have any federal or
provincial licence or pay any fee or royalty to Canada or British Columbia relating to the
exercise of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Gather Plants.
Trade and Barter
24.6.11
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to Trade and Barter
Plants and the boughs, burls and roots of Timber gathered under its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Right to Gather Plants, among themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident
in British Columbia.
24.6.12
A Maa‑nulth First Nation right to Trade and Barter described
in 24.6.11 may be exercised by a Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation, except as
otherwise provided in a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government made under 24.6.14d.
24.6.13
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its right to
Trade and Barter described in 24.6.11.
Law-making
24.6.14
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws in
respect of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Gather Plants for:
a. the distribution of gathered Plants, boughs, burls or roots of Timber among
the Maa‑nulth‑aht of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. designating the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation to gather Plants,
boughs, burls or roots of Timber;
c. documenting the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation who have been
designated; and
d. Trade and Barter of the Plants, boughs, burls or roots of Timber gathered by
the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
24.6.15
Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 24.6.14a., 24.6.14b. or
24.6.14d. prevails to the extent of a Conflict with Federal Law or Provincial
Law.
24.6.16
Federal Law or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with Maa‑nulth First Nation Law made under 24.6.14c.
Documentation
24.6.17
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will issue
documentation to the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation who gather or attempt to
gather Plants, or the boughs, burls or roots of Timber under its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Right to Gather Plants.
24.6.18
A Maa‑nulth‑aht who gathers or attempts to gather Plants or
the boughs, burls or roots of Timber under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Gather Plants
is required to carry documentation issued by the Maa‑nulth First Nation Government of the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation and to produce that documentation on request by an
authorized individual.
24.6.19
Documentation issued by a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government
in accordance with 24.6.16 will:
a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative, and at the
discretion of that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, in the Nuu‑chah‑nulth
language;
b. include the name and address of the Maa‑nulth‑aht; and
c. meet any other requirements to which the Maa‑nulth First Nation Government and
British Columbia may agree.
24.7.0  EXPROPRIATION OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS FOR PROVINCIAL
PROTECTED AREA PURPOSES
24.7.1
Notwithstanding 2.11.2, British Columbia will not acquire any
Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands by expropriation for the purpose of enlarging an
existing Provincial Protected Area or establishing a new Provincial Protected
Area.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
