View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 2 — LANDS
2.1.0  GENERAL
2.1.1
On the Effective Date, Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands consist of
the following:
a. for Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations:
i. 1,077 hectares, more or less, of Former Indian Reserves, identified for
illustrative purposes in Appendix B-1, Part 1 as "Former Indian Reserves of Huu‑ay‑aht First
Nations", and legally described in Appendix B-1, Part 1 (a); and
ii. 7,181 hectares, more or less, of additional lands identified for illustrative
purposes in Appendix B-1, Part 2 as "Additional Lands", and described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix B-1, Part 2 (a);
b. for Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations:
i. 379 hectares, more or less, of Former Indian Reserves, identified for
illustrative purposes in Appendix B-2, Part 1 as "Former Indian Reserves of
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations", and legally described in Appendix B-2, Part
1 (a); and
ii. 5,920 hectares, more or less, of additional lands identified for illustrative
purposes in Appendix B-2, Part 2 as "Additional Lands", and described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix B-2, Part 2 (a);
c. for Toquaht Nation:
i. 196 hectares, more or less, of Former Indian Reserves, identified for
illustrative purposes in Appendix B-3, Part 1 as "Former Indian Reserves of Toquaht Nation",
and legally described in Appendix B-3, Part 1 (a); and
ii. 1,293 hectares, more or less, of additional lands identified for illustrative
purposes in Appendix B-3, Part 2 as "Additional Lands", and described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix B-3, Part 2 (a);
d. for Uchucklesaht Tribe:
i. 233 hectares, more or less, of Former Indian Reserves, identified for
illustrative purposes in Appendix B-4, Part 1 as "Former Indian Reserves of Uchucklesaht
Tribe", and legally described in Appendix B-4, Part 1 (a); and
ii. 2,834 hectares, more or less, of additional lands identified for illustrative
purposes in Appendix B-4, Part 2 as "Additional Lands", and described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix B-4, Part 2 (a); and
e. for Ucluelet First Nation:
i. 199 hectares, more or less, of Former Indian Reserves, identified for
illustrative purposes in Appendix B-5, Part 1 as "Former Indian Reserves of Ucluelet First
Nation", and legally described in Appendix B-5, Part 1 (a);
ii. 5,147 hectares, more or less, of additional lands identified for illustrative
purposes in Appendix B-5, Part 2 as "Additional Lands", and described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix B-5, Part 2 (a); and
iii. 92 hectares, more or less, of lands acquired by Canada and British Columbia
identified for illustrative purposes in Appendix B-5, Part 3 and legally described in
Appendix B-5, Part 3 (a).
2.1.2
On the Effective Date, an indefeasible title to each parcel of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands listed in Part 3 of Appendices B-2 to B-4 and Part 4 of
Appendix B-5 will be registered in the name of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation under
the
Land Title Act
and the
Land Title Act
will apply to
such parcels in accordance with this Agreement.
Grassy Island
2.1.3
The Grassy Island Indian Reserve 17, legally described as
Grassy Island IR17, DL 221, Nootka District, Plan BC516, is not included in the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations.
2.1.4
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations releases to
Canada all of the rights and Interests that Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations
and its members ever had or now have or may have in the future in Grassy Island Indian
Reserve 17, and acknowledges that, on the Effective Date, Grassy Island Indian Reserve 17 is
no longer set apart for the use and benefit of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations.
2.1.5
In consideration of 2.1.3 and the release described in 2.1.4,
Canada will pay to Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations the sum of $200,000, which
amount is included in the Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations Capital Transfer
Payment Plan, and other good valuable consideration, and Grassy Island Indian Reserve 17 is
no longer set apart for the use and benefit of the Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations.
2.1.6
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations acknowledges
that nothing in this Agreement is intended to affect any Interest that Ehattesaht First
Nation has in Grassy Island Indian Reserve 17.
2.2.0  OTHER MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS
2.2.1
On the Effective Date, Ucluelet First Nation owns the estate
in fee simple in those lands identified as "Subject Lands" for illustrative purposes in
Appendix C-1, Part 1 and legally described in Appendix C-1, Part 2, as Other Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands.
2.2.2
Ucluelet First Nation's ownership of the lands referred to in
2.2.1 is:
a. subject to the Interests listed in Appendix C-1, Part 3; and
b. does not include Subsurface Resources.
2.3.0  OWNERSHIP OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS
2.3.1
On the Effective Date, each Maa‑nulth First Nation owns the
estate in fee simple in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, and such estate is not subject to
any condition, proviso, restriction, exception or reservation, under the
Land
Act
.
2.3.2
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may, in accordance with this
Agreement, its Maa‑nulth First Nation Constitution, and Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, Dispose of Interests in its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands without the consent of Canada or British Columbia.
2.3.3
Except as provided in 2.11.10 and 2.12.16, or with the consent
of Canada and British Columbia in accordance with 2.3.8, a parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands does not cease to be Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands as a result of the Disposition of an
Interest in such parcel.
2.3.4
If an estate in fee simple in a parcel of Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands is acquired through an agreement between the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
and a federal department or agency, those lands are no longer Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
and Appendix B is deemed to be amended accordingly.
2.3.5
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not transfer the estate in fee
simple in a parcel of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands until indefeasible title to that
parcel of land has been registered in accordance with Chapter 3 Land Title.
2.3.6
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation transfers the estate in fee simple
in a parcel of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, expropriation by a Federal Expropriating
Authority of those lands may occur in accordance with Federal Law and not subject to 2.12.0,
except 2.12.16.
2.3.7
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation transfers the estate in fee simple
in a parcel of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands to any person other than to
a:
a. Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation of that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
or
c. Maa‑nulth First Nation Public Institution of that Maa‑nulth First
Nation,
expropriation by a Provincial Expropriating Authority of such land may occur in
accordance with Provincial Law and not subject to 2.11.0, except 2.11.8 and
2.11.10.
2.3.8
After the Effective Date, before Disposing of the estate in
fee simple in a parcel of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, a Maa‑nulth First Nation may
request the consent of Canada and British Columbia to having such land removed from its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.3.9
In considering whether to consent to the removal of a parcel
of land from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of a Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
a request under 2.3.8, Canada and British Columbia may consider:
a. necessary jurisdictional, administrative and servicing
arrangements;
b. the views of any affected Local Government or neighbouring First
Nation;
c. whether the removal of the land will have an impact on fiscal arrangements
negotiated between the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation and Canada or
British Columbia;
d. whether the removal of the land will have any legal or financial implications
for Canada or British Columbia; or
e. any other matter that Canada or British Columbia considers
relevant.
2.3.10
If Canada and British Columbia consent to the removal of a
parcel of land from Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with 2.3.8, such parcel
ceases to be Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands upon receipt by the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation of notice of the consent of each of Canada and British Columbia and Appendix B is
deemed to be amended to reflect such removal of lands from Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.3.11
If, at any time, any Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
finally escheats to the Crown, the Crown will transfer, at no cost and without fee, that
Interest to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.3.12
All methods of acquiring a right in or over land by
prescription or by adverse possession, including the common law doctrine of prescription and
the doctrine of the lost modern grant, are abolished in respect of Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.3.13
No Interest, reservation or exception of a Maa‑nulth First
Nation in any parcel of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, the indefeasible title to which
parcel, under the
Land Title Act
, is not registered in fee simple or
subject to an application for registration in fee simple, is subject to attachment, charge,
seizure, distress, execution or sale, except:
a. pursuant to:
i. a lien, charge or other encumbrance in favour of Canada or British Columbia;
or
ii. the terms of a security instrument granted by that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
or
b. if allowed under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law made by the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government.
2.4.0  SUBMERGED LANDS
2.4.1
Subject to 2.4.5, Submerged Lands do not form part of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands and nothing in this Agreement affects British Columbia's
ownership of Submerged Lands.
2.4.2
British Columbia will notify a Maa‑nulth First Nation of any
proposed Disposition of an Interest in, or use or occupation of, Submerged Lands that are
wholly contained within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.4.3
British Columbia will not, in respect of Submerged Lands that
are wholly contained within Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands:
a. grant an estate in fee simple;
b. grant a lease that, with any rights of renewal, may exceed 25
years;
c. transfer administration and control for a period that may exceed 25 years;
or
d. otherwise Dispose of an Interest in, or authorize the use or occupation of,
Submerged Lands if that Disposition, use or occupation would adversely affect those
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands or the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation's interests described
in this Agreement,
without the consent of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.4.4
2.4.2 and 2.4.3 do not affect the riparian rights of the
upland owners of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands adjacent to Submerged Lands.
2.4.5
Submerged Lands which are part of Former Indian Reserves form
part of the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
2.4.6
No transfer of Submerged Lands to a Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with this Agreement includes the exclusive right to fish.
2.5.0  INITIAL SURVEYS
2.5.1
In those cases where adequate surveys do not already exist,
before the Effective Date, or as soon as practicable after the Effective Date having regard
to the Survey Protocol, the outer boundaries of those Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands described
in 2.1.1 will be surveyed by:
a. Canada in respect of Former Indian Reserves; and
b. British Columbia in respect of those lands described as "Subject Lands" in
Part 2 (a) of Appendices B-1 to B-5,
all in accordance with instructions to be issued by the Surveyor General of
British Columbia and approved by Canada, British Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation for that portion of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands being surveyed and otherwise in
accordance with the survey procedure described in Schedule 1.
2.5.2
Canada and British Columbia will, as agreed between them, pay
the full cost of the initial surveys approved in accordance with 2.5.1.
2.5.3
Upon the registration in the provincial Crown land registry of
the survey plan completed in accordance with 2.5.1, Appendix B and, if applicable, Appendix
D are deemed to be amended to reflect any adjustments to the boundaries of the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands as a result of such survey.
2.6.0  BOUNDARY RESOLUTION
2.6.1
If a Party provides the other affected Parties with a proposal
to clarify the location of any part of a boundary of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, the
Parties will follow the survey procedure described in Schedule 1.
2.6.2
Unless the affected Parties otherwise agree, the cost as
between such Parties of any field survey undertaken in accordance with 2.6.1 to clarify the
location of a part of a boundary of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands will be borne
by:
a. the Party authorizing an activity causing the need for clarification of the
boundary location; or
b. the Party proposing clarification of the boundary location, if no Party has
authorized an activity causing the need for clarification of the boundary
location.
2.6.3
If the Parties affected by a proposal to clarify the location
of any part of a boundary of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with 2.6.1 do not
agree on whether or at whose cost to undertake the proposed boundary clarification, any such
Party may refer the matter to be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with
Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution without having to proceed through Stages One and
Two.
2.6.4
If the clarification of a boundary of any part of Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands in accordance with 2.6.1 results in the adjustment of a boundary of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, then upon the registration in the provincial Crown land
registry of the survey plan completed in accordance with 2.6.1, Appendix B and, if
applicable, Appendix D are deemed to be amended to reflect any such adjustment to the
boundaries of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.7.0  INTERESTS ON MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS
2.7.1
On the Effective Date, title to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
is free and clear of all Interests, except as listed in:
a. Appendices E-1 to E-5 in respect of replacement Interests;
b. Appendices E-7 to E-9 in respect of Interests on Former Indian
Reserves;
c. Appendices E-11 to E-15 in respect of Interests that continue after the
Effective Date under their existing terms and conditions; and
d. Appendices E-16 to E-20 in respect of existing foreshore Interests requiring
upland owner consents.
2.7.2
Subject to 2.7.1, every Interest that, before the Effective
Date, encumbered or applied to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, ceases to exist.
2.7.3
On the Effective Date, each Maa‑nulth First Nation will grant
or issue Interests to those persons who are named in Appendices E-1 to E-5, E-7 to E-9 and
E-16 to E-20 relating to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.7.4
On the Effective Date, each Maa‑nulth First Nation will
execute documents granting or issuing to each person named in Appendix E-1 to E-5, Parts 2
and 3 of E-7, Part 1 of E-8, Part 2 of E-9 and E-16 to E-20 relating to its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands that person's Interest, as described in that Appendix.
2.7.5
On the Effective Date, the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
will issue to each individual named in Part 1 of Appendices E-7 and E-9, a form of tenure
for the parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands ascribed to that individual and described in
Part 1 of Appendices E-7 and E-9.
2.7.6
An individual to whom a Maa‑nulth First Nation issues a form
of tenure in accordance with 2.7.5 has substantially the same right to possess the described
parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands as the individual had as the holder of the
certificate of possession under the
Indian Act
immediately before the
Effective Date, modified to reflect the law-making authority of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government over such lands and ownership of such lands by the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with this Agreement.
2.7.7
A document executed in accordance with 2.7.4 for an Interest
listed in:
a. Appendices E-1 to E-5 will be in the applicable form described in Appendix E-6
or Part 2 of Appendix E-10;
b. Part 2 of Appendices E-7 and E-9 and Part 1 of Appendix E-8 will be in the
applicable form described in Part 2 of Appendix E-10;
c. Part 3 of Appendix E-7 will be in the applicable form described in Part 1 of
Appendix E-10; and
d. Appendices E-16 to E-20 will be in the applicable form described in Appendix
E-21,
and in all cases will include any modifications agreed upon in writing before
the Effective Date by the applicable Maa‑nulth Indian Band and the person entitled to the
Interest.
2.7.8
A document referred to in 2.7.4 and 2.7.5 is deemed to
be:
a. delivered by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation on the Effective Date;
and
b. executed and delivered by the applicable person named in Appendix E on the
Effective Date.
2.7.9
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will physically deliver the
applicable document:
a. to the applicable person named in Appendix E; or
b. to any other person who, before the Effective Date, was identified to that
Maa‑nulth First Nation by Canada or British Columbia,
and the Appendix is deemed to be amended on the Effective Date by substituting
the name of the applicable Interest holder listed in Appendix E with the name of the person
identified in the notice.
2.7.10
If, following the Effective Date, Canada or British Columbia
notifies a Maa‑nulth First Nation that an Interest granted in accordance with
2.7.3:
a. is in the name of a person who was not entitled to the Interest on the
Effective Date; or
b. contains a clerical error or a wrong description of a material
fact,
the appropriate Parties will take reasonable measures to rectify the
error.
2.7.11
Any right of way of the nature described in section 218 of
the
Land Title Act
that is granted by a Maa‑nulth First Nation under this
Agreement is legally binding and enforceable notwithstanding that Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands to which the right of way relates are not subject to the
Land Title
Act
.
2.7.12
The Interests listed in Appendices E-11 to E-15 are retained
by the persons who hold those Interests on the Effective Date in accordance with the
existing terms and conditions of the Interest on the Effective Date, modified where
appropriate to reflect ownership of the land by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation and
Provincial Law. If such an Interest is not renewed or replaced when it expires in accordance
with its terms or Provincial Law, that Interest ceases to exist.
2.7.13
If, after the Effective Date, BC Hydro or Telus is requested
by Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations or Uchucklesaht Tribe, as the case may be,
to construct facilities for the provision of electrical or telecommunications services on
their respective Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands, Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations or Uchucklesaht Tribe, as the case may be, will grant or issue to BC Hydro and Telus
an Interest for such facilities on terms substantially the same as those set out in Part 2
of Appendix E-10, "Distribution Right of Way".
2.7.14
If BC Hydro agrees to provide electrical services on the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Uchucklesaht Tribe, Uchucklesaht Tribe will grant or issue
to BC Hydro an Interest for such facilities on terms substantially the same as those set out
in Part 3 of Appendix E-10, "Distribution Right of Way - Uchucklesaht Tribe".
2.7.15
If BC Hydro determines that it will construct hydro
transmission facilities on the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Toquaht Nation in the area
approximately identified as the "Right of Way Area" in Part 3 of Appendix E-10 "Transmission
Right of Way - Toquaht Nation", or any portion thereof, Toquaht Nation will grant or issue
to BC Hydro an Interest for such facilities substantially the same as set out in Part 3 of
Appendix E-10 "Transmission Right of Way - Toquaht Nation".
2.7.16
If BC Hydro determines that it will construct hydro
transmission facilities on the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ucluelet First Nation in the
area approximately identified as the "Right of Way Area" in Part 3 of Appendix E-10
"Transmission Right of Way - Ucluelet First Nation", or any portion thereof, Ucluelet First
Nation will grant or issue to BC Hydro an Interest for such facilities substantially the
same as set out in Part 3 of Appendix E-10 "Transmission Right of Way - Ucluelet First
Nation".
2.8.0  INDEMNITY AND CONFIRMATION
2.8.1
British Columbia will indemnify and forever save harmless each
Maa‑nulth First Nation from any damages, losses, liabilities or costs, excluding fees and
disbursements of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the Maa‑nulth First Nation
may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of any claims, demands, actions or
proceedings relating to or arising out of:
a. the omission from Appendix E of the name of a person who, immediately before
the Effective Date, had an Interest in the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation that had been granted by British Columbia; or
b. the incorrect naming of a person in Appendix E as a person entitled to an
Interest, where another person was actually entitled, immediately before the Effective Date,
to the Interest in the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation that had
been granted by British Columbia.
2.8.2
For greater certainty, a Maa‑nulth First Nation does not
release Canada from any damages, losses, liability or costs that Canada may otherwise be
liable for before the Effective Date in relation to:
a. the omission in Appendix E of the name of an individual who, immediately
before the Effective Date, had an Interest in or certificate of possession in respect of a
Former Indian Reserve of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nations; or
b. the incorrect naming of an individual in Appendix E as an individual entitled
to an Interest or certificate of possession, where another individual was actually entitled,
immediately before the Effective Date, to the interest or the certificate of possession in
respect of a Former Indian Reserve of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation that had been
granted by Canada.
2.9.0  SITE REMEDIATION ON MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS
2.9.1
If, after the Effective Date, a Maa‑nulth First Nation decides
to develop a site described as "Subject Lands" in Appendix B-3, Part 4, it will provide
notice of such development to British Columbia.
2.9.2
After receiving notice in accordance with 2.9.1, British
Columbia will inspect the applicable site and if it is determined that such site is a
Contaminated Site, British Columbia will undertake or cause to be undertaken appropriate
remediation of the site in accordance with the
Environmental Management Act
and 2.9.3.
2.9.3
In determining whether a site referred to in 2.9.1 is a
Contaminated Site and in determining the extent of the appropriate remediation of such site,
the use of that site is deemed to be the use described in Schedule 2.
2.9.4
British Columbia or any person undertaking the inspection or
remediation of a site in accordance with 2.9.2, will provide the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation with:
a. notice before commencing any inspection or remediation; and
b. the opportunity to observe any inspection or remediation.
2.9.5
Nothing in this Agreement limits the ability of British
Columbia to recover the costs incurred in inspecting and remediating a site referred to in
2.9.1 from any third party determined to be a Responsible Person in respect of the
Contamination of any such site.
2.9.6
British Columbia is not liable in respect of the Contamination
of any site referred to in 2.9.1 which occurs after the Effective Date.
2.9.7
The transfer of Former Federal Lands to a Maa‑nulth First
Nation in accordance with this Agreement does not, in and of itself, result in British
Columbia being determined to be a Responsible Person in respect of any potential
Contamination of any Former Federal Lands.
2.9.8
British Columbia is not required to prepare and provide a Site
Profile for any lands transferred to a Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with this
Agreement.
2.10.0  ADDITIONS TO MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS
General
2.10.1
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may request that Canada and
British Columbia consent to a parcel of land being added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.10.2
British Columbia will consider a request by a Maa‑nulth First
Nation to add a parcel of land to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, made in accordance with
2.10.1, if:
a. the estate in fee simple in that parcel of land is owned by that Maa‑nulth
First Nation or a Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation, Maa‑nulth First Nation Public
Institution or Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation, and such owner provides written
consent;
b. the parcel of land is within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation;
c. the parcel of land is in an area outside of the boundaries of a Municipality
or, if within the boundaries of a Municipality, that Municipality provides written
consent;
d. the parcel of land becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands will not unreasonably
restrict the expansion or development of a Municipality or the community of Bamfield;
and
e. British Columbia will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with that parcel of land.
2.10.3
In addition to the matters described in 2.10.2, in
determining whether to consent to a request received in accordance with 2.10.1, British
Columbia may consider whether the parcel of land is contiguous to the existing Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation and such other matters as British Columbia
considers relevant.
2.10.4
Canada will consider a request by a Maa‑nulth First Nation to
add a parcel of land to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, made in accordance with 2.10.1,
if:
a. the estate in fee simple in that parcel of land is owned by that Maa‑nulth
First Nation;
b. the parcel of land is located within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation;
c. the parcel of land is in an area free from overlap with another First Nation
or, if within an area of overlap with another First Nation, that other First Nation provides
written consent; and
d. Canada will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with that parcel of land.
2.10.5
In addition to the matters described in 2.10.4, in
determining whether to consent to a request received in accordance with 2.10.1, Canada may
take into account such other matters as it considers relevant.
2.10.6
If British Columbia and Canada consent to a request made in
accordance with 2.10.1, each will provide notice of its consent to the other Parties and
that parcel of land will become Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation upon receipt by that Maa‑nulth First Nation of notice of the consent of each of
British Columbia and Canada and Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition
to Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands.
Acquisition and Addition of Other Provincial Crown
Lands
2.10.7
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation wishes to acquire any parcel of
land, or any portion thereof, described as "Subject Lands" in Appendix F-1 for that
Maa‑nulth First Nation it will, within 15 years of the Effective Date, provide notice to
British Columbia.
2.10.8
Within 180 days of receiving a notice in accordance with
2.10.7, British Columbia will prepare and forward to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
an offer to sell the parcel of land, setting out:
a. a description of the parcel of land;
b. the purchase price of the parcel of land which, unless British Columbia and
the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation otherwise agree, will be equal to the fair market
value of the parcel of land;
c. any Interests which the parcel of land will be subject to; and
d. any other terms and conditions applicable to the purchase and sale of the
parcel of land.
2.10.9
An offer to sell provincial Crown land made in accordance
with paragraph 2.10.8 will be open for acceptance by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
for a period of one year from the receipt of such offer, after which that Maa‑nulth First
Nation is deemed to have refused the offer to sell and the offer to sell
expires.
2.10.10
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation acquires provincial Crown land
in accordance with 2.10.7 to 2.10.13, such land will be added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands upon that Maa‑nulth First Nation becoming the owner of such lands and Appendix B is
deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands. If Toquaht
Nation acquires any land described as "Subject Lands" in Plan 1 of Part 3 of Appendix F-1 in
accordance with 2.10.7 adjacent to the Provincial Road shown as "Potential Crown Corridor"
in Plan 1 of Part 3 of Appendix F-1 that portion of such Provincial Road subsequently
bounded by the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Toquaht Nation is included within the lands
identified as Crown Corridors, and Appendix D is deemed to be amended to reflect such
addition.
2.10.11
If British Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation disagree on the fair market value of any provincial Crown land identified in Appendix
F-1 offered for sale in accordance with 2.10.8, that Maa‑nulth First Nation may refer the
issue to be be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution without having to proceed through Stages One and Two.
2.10.12
Subject to 2.10.13, British Columbia will continue to manage
and use the provincial Crown lands identified in Appendix F-1 at its sole discretion and,
for greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement limits the ability of British Columbia to
authorize the use or Disposition of Forest Resources or Subsurface Resources on any lands
identified in Appendix F-1 before the acquisition of the estate in fee simple in such lands
by a Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.10.13
For a period of 15 years after the Effective Date, British
Columbia will not, in respect of the provincial Crown lands described as "Subject Lands" in
Appendix F-1:
a. grant an estate in fee simple; or
b. grant a lease that, with any rights of renewal, may exceed 15
years,
without the consent of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation.
Malksope
2.10.14
At the request of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations, within 15 years of the Effective Date, British Columbia and
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement
that will:
a. transfer the parcel of land described in Appendix B-2, Part 1, Plan BC141,
known formerly as the Malksope Indian Reserve, from Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations to British Columbia; and
b. transfer provincial Crown land of equivalent fair market value, to be
identified from "Site 1" or "Site 2" of Plan 2 in Part 2 of Appendix F-1, from British
Columbia to Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations.
2.10.15
If British Columbia and Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h'
First Nations are unable to reach agreement on the fair market value of the lands identified
in 2.10.14, either Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations or British Columbia may
refer the issue to be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25
Dispute Resolution without having to proceed through Stages One and Two.
2.10.16
Upon the transfer of the lands contemplated in 2.10.14,
Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to and removal from the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations.
Acquisition and Addition of Excluded Provincial Crown
Lands
2.10.17
If, at any time, British Columbia determines that a parcel
of provincial Crown land, or any portion thereof, described as "Subject Lands" in Appendix
F-2, is surplus to provincial requirements, British Columbia will offer to sell such parcel
by providing notice to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation setting out:
a. a description of the parcel of land;
b. the purchase price of the parcel of land which, unless British Columbia and
the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation otherwise agree, will be equal to the fair market
value of the parcel of land;
c. any Interests which the parcel of land will be subject to; and
d. any other terms and conditions applicable to the purchase and sale of the
land.
2.10.18
An offer to sell provincial Crown land made in accordance
with paragraph 2.10.17 will be open for acceptance by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
for a period of one year from the receipt of such offer, after which that Maa‑nulth First
Nation is deemed to have refused the offer to sell, the offer to sell expires and British
Columbia may otherwise Dispose of such parcel of land.
2.10.19
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation acquires provincial Crown land
in accordance with 2.10.17 to 2.10.22, such land will be added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands upon that Maa‑nulth First Nation becoming the owner of such lands and Appendix B is
deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.10.20
For greater certainty, in determining which provincial Crown
lands described as "Subject Lands" in Appendix F-2 are surplus to provincial requirements,
British Columbia may identify requirements for Crown Corridors and exclude such corridors
from those lands and Appendix D is deemed to be amended to reflect such Crown
Corridors.
2.10.21
If British Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation disagree on the fair market value of any provincial Crown land identified in Appendix
F-2 offered for sale in accordance with 2.10.17, that Maa‑nulth First Nation may refer the
issue to be be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution without having to proceed through Stages One and Two.
2.10.22
British Columbia will continue to manage and use the
provincial Crown lands identified in Appendix F-2 at its sole discretion and, for greater
certainty, nothing in this Agreement will limit the ability of British Columbia to authorize
the use or Disposition of Forest Resources or Subsurface Resources on any lands identified
in Appendix F-2 before the acquisition of an estate in fee simple in such lands by a
Maa‑nulth First Nation.
Acquisition and Addition of Fee Simple Lands
2.10.23
If, within 15 years after the Effective Date, a Maa‑nulth
First Nation referred to in Appendix F-3 or F-4, or a Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Public Institution or Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation,
becomes the registered owner of the estate in fee simple in a parcel of land, or any portion
thereof, identified for illustrative purposes as "Subject Lands" and legally described in
the applicable Part of Appendix F-3 or F-4, and:
a. where the owner of such parcel is a Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Public Institution or Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation,
such owner provides written consent; and
b. the registered holder of any financial charge or encumbrance provides written
consent,
then that Maa‑nulth First Nation may provide notice to British Columbia and
Canada, that the parcel of land is to be added to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.10.24
After receipt of a notice in accordance with 2.10.23,
BritishColumbia and Canada will each, upon satisfactory review of the consents referred to
in 2.10.23a. and b., provide confirmation to the other Parties that such parcel of land is
to be added to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
2.10.25
If British Columbia and Canada provide confirmation in
accordance with 2.10.24, that parcel of land will become Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation upon receipt by that Maa‑nulth First Nation of such
confirmation and Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands.
Acquisition of Fee Simple Lands through Treaty Related
Measures
2.10.26
Before the Effective Date, British Columbia, Canada and a
Maa‑nulth First Nation may, through a treaty related measure, agree to the acquisition by
Canada or British Columbia of the estate in fee simple in a parcel of land described as
"Subject Lands" in Appendix F-3 for that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.10.27
If British Columbia or Canada acquires a parcel of land for
a Maa‑nulth First Nation before the Effective Date in accordance with 2.10.26 and the
Capital Transfer Payment Plan is adjusted in accordance with 16.1.2, on the Effective Date
that parcel of land becomes Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation and Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands.
Continuation of Interests
2.10.28
A parcel of land added to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in
accordance with 2.10.0 continues to be subject to any Interest existing immediately before
the parcel of land becomes Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, unless the holder of such Interest
otherwise agrees in writing.
2.10.29
A Maa‑nulth First Nation will own the Subsurface Resources
on lands that are added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with 2.10.0
if:
a. the estate in fee simple includes ownership of the Subsurface Resources;
or
b. British Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
agree.
2.10.30
For greater certainty, a Maa‑nulth First Nation's ownership
of Subsurface Resources is subject to any Subsurface Tenures existing immediately before the
acquisition of the parcel of land by the Maa‑nulth First Nation and those Subsurface Tenures
continue to be administered by British Columbia in accordance with 4.2.0.
2.10.31
The total amount of the estate in fee simple identified in
2.11.8 for a Maa‑nulth First Nation increases by five percent of the area, in hectares, of
the estate in fee simple added in accordance with 2.10.0 to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
Other Matters
2.10.32
Unless otherwise agreed by the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation, Canada and British Columbia, neither Canada nor British Columbia is responsible for
the costs associated with the survey, registration and transfer of any parcel of land
acquired by that Maa‑nulth First Nation following the Effective Date.
2.10.33
For greater certainty, Canada is not required to assume
financial or other obligations in respect of any addition to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
made in accordance with 2.10.0.
2.11.0  PROVINCIAL EXPROPRIATION OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION
LANDS
General
2.11.1
British Columbia acknowledges as a general principle that
where it is reasonable to use other means, expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
will be avoided.
2.11.2
Subject to this Chapter, any Interest in Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands may be expropriated by and for the use of a Provincial Expropriating Authority
in accordance with provincial legislation and with the consent of the Lieutenant
Governor-in-Council.
2.11.3
Where a Provincial Expropriating Authority has determined
that it must use Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, the Provincial Expropriating Authority will
make reasonable efforts to acquire the necessary Interest through agreement with the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.11.4
Any expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands by a
Provincial Expropriating Authority will be of the smallest Interest necessary and for the
shortest time required.
2.11.5
The value of the expropriated Interest will be based on the
criteria used to determine compensation under the provincial
Expropriation
Act
.
2.11.6
If the Provincial Expropriating Authority and the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation disagree on the value of the expropriated Interest, either that
Maa‑nulth First Nation or British Columbia may refer the issue to be finally determined by
arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution without having to proceed
through Stages One and Two. A Disagreement regarding the value of the expropriated Interest
will not delay the expropriation.
2.11.7
The applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation will be responsible for
providing compensation to the holder of any Interest in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
that may be expropriated by a Provincial Expropriating Authority in accordance with 2.11.0,
and the holder of any such expropriated Interest has no recourse against British Columbia or
the Provincial Expropriating Authority for compensation.
Expropriation of an Estate in Fee Simple
2.11.8
Subject to 2.10.31 and 2.11.30, the total amount of the
estate in fee simple in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands that may be expropriated by Provincial
Expropriating Authorities is as follows:
a. from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations,
410 hectares;
b. from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First
Nations, 315 hectares;
c. from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Toquaht Nation, 70
hectares;
d. from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Uchucklesaht Tribe, 150 hectares;
and
e. from the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Ucluelet First Nation,
270 hectares.
2.11.9
Notwithstanding 2.11.4, where an estate in fee simple in
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands is expropriated by a Provincial Expropriating Authority, the
expropriation will include the estate in fee simple in Subsurface Resources unless British
Columbia and the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation otherwise agree.
2.11.10
Where a Provincial Expropriating Authority expropriates the
estate in fee simple in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, those lands are no longer Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands and Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such removal of lands
from Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.11.11
Where an estate in fee simple in Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands is expropriated by a Provincial Expropriating Authority other than a provincial
ministry or Crown corporation, that Provincial Expropriating Authority will provide that
Maa‑nulth First Nation with compensation under the provincial
Expropriation
Act
.
Provincial Crown Land as Replacement Lands
2.11.12
Where an estate in fee simple in Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands is expropriated by a provincial ministry or Crown corporation, that provincial
ministry or Crown corporation will make reasonable efforts to identify, acquire and offer
provincial Crown land of comparable value within the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Area
to the Maa‑nulth First Nation as compensation.
2.11.13
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation accepts an offer of provincial
Crown land as proposed replacement lands made in accordance with 2.11.12, British Columbia
will transfer the proposed replacement lands to the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
2.11.14
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may request that British Columbia
consent to a parcel of replacement lands transferred to that Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with 2.11.13 being added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.11.15
British Columbia will consent to proposed replacement lands,
transferred to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.11.13, being added
to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation if:
a. the proposed replacement lands are within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. the proposed replacement lands are in an area outside of the boundaries of a
Municipality or, if within the boundaries of a Municipality, that Municipality provides
written consent;
c. the proposed replacement lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Land will not
unreasonably restrict the expansion or development of a Municipality or the community of
Bamfield; and
d. British Columbia will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with that parcel of land.
2.11.16
Unless otherwise agreed by British Columbia and the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation, if British Columbia owns the Subsurface Resources under
any proposed replacement lands which are transferred to that Maa‑nulth First Nation in
connection with an expropriation by a Provincial Expropriating Authority of its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands, British Columbia will transfer the estate in fee simple in such
Subsurface Resources to that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.11.17
Proposed replacement lands, including any Subsurface
Resources, transferred to a Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.11.13 continue to be
subject to any Interest existing immediately before the transfer to the Maa‑nulth First
Nation, unless the holder of such Interest otherwise agrees in writing.
2.11.18
For greater certainty, a Maa‑nulth First Nation's ownership
of Subsurface Resources is subject to any Subsurface Tenures existing immediately before the
acquisition of the parcel of land by the Maa‑nulth First Nation and those Subsurface Tenures
continue to be administered by British Columbia in accordance with 4.2.0.
2.11.19
If there is no agreement between the provincial ministry or
Crown corporation and a Maa‑nulth First Nation on the provision of land as compensation in
accordance with 2.11.12 and 2.11.13, the provincial ministry or Crown corporation will
provide that Maa‑nulth First Nation with other compensation under the provincial
Expropriation Act
.
2.11.20
If British Columbia has consented to replacement lands
becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with a request under 2.11.14, and Canada
has consented to such replacement lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance
with a request under 2.10.1 then upon receipt by that Maa‑nulth First Nation of notice of
the consent of each of British Columbia and Canada, Appendix B is deemed to be amended to
reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands.
Other Replacement Lands
2.11.21
A Maa‑nulth First Nation that has not received land as
compensation from a Provincial Expropriating Authority in connection with the expropriation
of an estate in fee simple in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands may, within two years after
the date of such expropriation, request that British Columbia consent to the proposed
replacement lands which that Maa‑nulth First Nation intends to acquire being added to its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.11.22
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation intends to acquire lands and
make a request in accordance with 2.11.21, it will make reasonable efforts to acquire an
estate in fee simple in lands that are contiguous to its existing Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.11.23
A request by a Maa‑nulth First Nation to British Columbia in
accordance with 2.11.21 will include:
a. the legal description and parcel identification description (PID) of the
proposed replacement lands;
b. a detailed map that identifies the location of the proposed replacement
lands;
c. the size of the replacement lands parcel in hectares; and
d. a description of any Interests that are registered against the title to the
proposed replacement lands.
2.11.24
Within 60 days of receiving a request prepared in accordance
with 2.11.23, British Columbia will review the proposed replacement lands and
if:
a. the proposed replacement lands are within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of
the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. the proposed replacement lands are in an area outside of the boundaries of a
Municipality or, if within the boundaries of a Municipality, that Municipality provides
written consent;
c. the proposed replacement lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands will not
unreasonably restrict the expansion or development of a Municipality or the community of
Bamfield;
d. the proposed replacement lands, and any replacement land transferred to the
Maa‑nulth First Nation by the Provincial Expropriating Authority as partial compensation for
the expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, are of equivalent size and comparable
value to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands which were expropriated; and
e. British Columbia will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with that parcel of land,
British Columbia will consent to the proposed replacement lands being added to
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands upon the Maa‑nulth First Nation becoming the registered owner
of the estate in fee simple in those replacement lands.
2.11.25
If British Columbia has consented to replacement lands
becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with a request under 2.11.21 and Canada
has consented to such replacement lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance
with a request under 2.10.1, then, upon receipt by that Maa‑nulth First Nation of notice of
the consent of each of British Columbia and Canada, Appendix B is deemed to be amended to
reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands.
2.11.26
Unless otherwise agreed by British Columbia and the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation, if British Columbia owns the Subsurface Resources under
any proposed replacement lands which become Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation in accordance with 2.11.25, British Columbia will transfer the estate in fee
simple in such Subsurface Resources to that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.11.27
Proposed replacement lands, including any Subsurface
Resources, transferred to a Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.11.26 continue to be
subject to any Interest existing immediately before the transfer to the Maa‑nulth First
Nation, unless otherwise agreed by the Maa‑nulth First Nation and British
Columbia.
2.11.28
For greater certainty, a Maa‑nulth First Nation's ownership
of Subsurface Resources is subject to any Subsurface Tenures existing immediately before the
acquisition of the parcel of land by the Maa‑nulth First Nation and those Subsurface Tenures
continue to be administered by British Columbia in accordance with 4.2.0.
Return of an Expropriated Interest
2.11.29
Where an expropriated Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands is no longer required by the Provincial Expropriating Authority for the purpose for
which it was expropriated, the Interest will be returned to the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation subject to terms to be negotiated at the time of the return of the expropriated
Interest.
2.11.30
Where an estate in fee simple is returned to a Maa‑nulth
First Nation in accordance with 2.11.29, the total amount of the estate in fee simple, in
hectares, in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation described in 2.11.8
that may be expropriated will be increased by the total amount of the estate in fee simple,
in hectares, returned to that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.11.31
If the Provincial Expropriating Authority and the affected
Maa‑nulth First Nation disagree as to whether the Interest is no longer required for the
purpose for which it was expropriated, either that Maa‑nulth First Nation or British
Columbia may refer the issue to be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with
Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution.
2.11.32
Where an estate in fee simple in a parcel is returned to a
Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.11.29, such parcel of land will be added to its
Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands upon that Maa‑nulth First Nation becoming the owner of such
lands and Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First
Nations Lands, unless that Maa‑nulth First Nation provides notice to British Columbia and
Canada before the date of such transfer that such lands are not to be added to its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands.
2.11.33
The Provincial Expropriating Authority, without the consent
of the Lieutenant Governor-in-Council, may decide that the expropriated Interest in land is
no longer required and may determine the Disposition of any improvements.
Expropriation of Other Interests
2.11.34
Where less than the estate in fee simple in a parcel of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands is expropriated by a Provincial Expropriating
Authority:
a. the parcel of land retains its status as Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands;
b. the parcel of land remains subject to Maa‑nulth First Nation Law except to the
extent that the Maa‑nulth First Nation Law is inconsistent with the use of land for which
the expropriation took place; and
c. the Maa‑nulth First Nation may continue to use and occupy the parcel of land,
except to the extent that such use or occupation interferes with the use of land for which
the expropriation took place.
2.12.0  FEDERAL EXPROPRIATION OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION
LANDS
2.12.1
Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations acknowledge that as a
general principle, and where reasonable and practical, Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands are not
subject to expropriation, except as described in this Chapter, due to the Maa‑nulth First
Nations' interest in maintaining the size and integrity of Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.12.2
Notwithstanding 2.12.1, any Interest in Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands may be expropriated by a Federal Expropriating Authority in accordance with
federal legislation and with the consent of the Governor-in-Council.
2.12.3
The Governor-in-Council may consent to an expropriation of an
Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands only if the expropriation is justifiable and
necessary for a public purpose.
2.12.4
For the purposes of 2.12.3, an expropriation is justifiable
where the Governor-in-Council is satisfied that the following requirements have been
met:
a. there is no other reasonably feasible alternative land to acquire that is not
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands;
b. reasonable efforts have been made by the Federal Expropriating Authority to
acquire the Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands through agreement with the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation;
c. the most limited Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands necessary for the
purpose for which the Interest in land is sought is to be expropriated; and
d. information relevant to the expropriation, other than documents that would be
protected from disclosure under federal legislation, has been provided to the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.12.5
Before the Governor-in-Council issues an order consenting to
the expropriation of an Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, the Federal Expropriating
Authority will provide to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation, and make available to the
public, a report stating the justification for the expropriation and describing the steps
taken to satisfy the requirements of 2.12.4.
2.12.6
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation objects to a proposed
expropriation of an Interest in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, it may, within 60 days
after the report has been provided to that Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.12.5,
while at the same time providing notice in writing to the Federal Expropriating Authority,
refer the matter to a neutral evaluator, in accordance with Appendix Y-5, for a review of
the steps taken to satisfy the requirements described in 2.12.4.
2.12.7
The Federal Expropriating Authority may not seek
Governor-in-Council consent to the expropriation of an Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands before the expiration of the period referred to in 2.12.6 or, if the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation has referred the matter to a neutral evaluator in accordance with
2.12.6, before the neutral evaluator has delivered an opinion on the matter, such opinion to
be rendered within 60 days of the referral being made or within such additional time as the
Federal Expropriating Authority and that Maa‑nulth First Nation may agree.
2.12.8
For greater certainty, the opinion of the neutral evaluator
contemplated by 2.12.7:
a. is without prejudice to the legal positions that may be taken by a Federal
Expropriating Authority and the Maa‑nulth First Nation in court or in any other
forum;
b. is not admissible in any legal proceedings, unless otherwise required by law;
and
c. is not binding on the Governor-in-Council under 2.12.3 and
2.12.4.
2.12.9
Where an estate in fee simple in a parcel of Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands is expropriated by a Federal Expropriating Authority, the Federal Expropriating
Authority will make reasonable efforts to identify replacement lands within the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Area of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation, being either federal Crown land
or land available on a willing-seller willing-buyer basis, of equivalent or greater size and
comparable value and, if acceptable to that Maa‑nulth First Nation, to acquire and offer the
replacement lands to that Maa‑nulth First Nation as partial or full compensation for the
expropriation. If the Federal Expropriating Authority and that Maa‑nulth First Nation are
unable to agree on the provision of replacement lands as compensation, the Federal
Expropriating Authority will provide that Maa‑nulth First Nation with other compensation in
accordance with this Agreement.
2.12.10
Subject to 2.12.13, if the replacement lands identified by
the Federal Expropriating Authority would result in the total size of the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation's Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands being less than at the Effective Date
and that Maa‑nulth First Nation does not agree that the replacement lands are of comparable
value to the Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands being expropriated, that Maa‑nulth
First Nation may refer the issue of whether the replacement lands are of comparable value to
the Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands being expropriated to be finally determined by
arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution.
2.12.11
The total value of compensation for an Interest in Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands expropriated by a Federal Expropriating Authority in accordance with this
Chapter will be determined by taking into account the following factors:
a. the fair market value of the expropriated Interest or of the Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands in which an interest has been expropriated;
b. the replacement value of any improvement to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
in which an Interest has been expropriated;
c. any expenses or losses resulting from the disturbance directly attributable to
the expropriation;
d. any reduction in the value of any Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
that is not expropriated which directly relates to the expropriation;
e. any adverse effect on any cultural or other special value of Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands in which an Interest has been expropriated to the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation, provided that the cultural or other special value is only applied to an Interest in
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands recognized in law and held by that Maa‑nulth First Nation, and
provided that there will be no increase in the total value of compensation on account of any
Aboriginal rights, title or interest; and
f. the value of any special economic advantage arising out of or incidental to
the occupation or use of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands to the extent that the value is not
otherwise compensated.
2.12.12
Subject to 2.12.13, if the total value of compensation
cannot be agreed upon between the Federal Expropriating Authority and the Maa‑nulth First
Nation, or where there is Disagreement on whether the combination of replacement lands and
cash is equal to the total value of compensation, either Canada acting on behalf of the
Federal Expropriating Authority or that Maa‑nulth First Nation may refer the issue of the
total value of compensation for dispute resolution in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution.
2.12.13
A dispute on the valuation of replacement lands under
2.12.10, or on the total value of compensation under 2.12.12, or on the terms and conditions
of the return of land under 2.12.27, will not delay the expropriation.
2.12.14
Any claim or encumbrance in respect of the Interest
expropriated may only be made or discharged against the amount of compensation payable in
accordance with Federal Law.
2.12.15
Interest on compensation is payable from the date the
expropriation takes effect, at the prejudgment interest rate payable in accordance with
federal legislation.
2.12.16
Where a Federal Expropriating Authority expropriates an
estate in fee simple in a parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, that parcel is no longer
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.12.17
Where a Federal Expropriating Authority expropriates less
than an estate in fee simple in a parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands:
a. the parcel of land retains its status as Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands;
b. the parcel of land remains subject to Maa‑nulth First Nation Law that are
otherwise applicable, except to the extent that such laws are inconsistent with the use of
the parcel of land for which the expropriation took place; and
c. the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation may continue to use and occupy the
parcel of land, except to the extent the use or occupation is inconsistent with the
expropriation in the view of the Federal Expropriating Authority.
2.12.18
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may request that Canada and British
Columbia consent to a parcel of replacement lands transferred to that Maa‑nulth First Nation
in accordance with 2.12.0 being added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.12.19
Canada will consent to replacement lands transferred by a
Federal Expropriating Authority to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation as part of the
compensation in accordance with 2.12.9 being added to Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
if:
a. the replacement lands are located within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. the replacement lands are located in an area free from overlap with another
First Nation or, if within an area of overlap with another First Nation, that First Nation
provides written consent; and
c. Canada will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with the replacement lands.
2.12.20
British Columbia will consent to replacement lands
transferred by a Federal Expropriating Authority to the Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance
with 2.12.9 being added to the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation
if:
a. the replacement lands are within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Area of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. the replacement lands are in an area outside of the boundaries of a
Municipality or, if within the boundaries of a Municipality, that Municipality provides
written consent;
c. the replacement lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands will not
unreasonably restrict the expansion or development of a Municipality or the community of
Bamfield; and
d. British Columbia will not be required to assume financial or other obligations
associated with that parcel of land.
2.12.21
If British Columbia and Canada have consented to replacement
lands becoming Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands in accordance with a request under 2.12.18, then
upon receipt by that Maa‑nulth First Nation of notice of the consent of each of British
Columbia and Canada, Appendix B is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to
Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands.
2.12.22
Replacement lands, including any Subsurface Resources,
transferred to a Maa‑nulth First Nation by a Federal Expropriating Authority in accordance
with 2.12.9 continue to be subject to any Interests that exist in such lands immediately
before the transfer to the Maa‑nulth First Nation.
2.12.23
Where an Interest in a parcel of Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands expropriated by a Federal Expropriating Authority is no longer required for the
purpose for which it was expropriated, the federal department, agency or person who holds
the expropriated Interest will ensure that the Interest in land is returned to the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation on the terms and conditions negotiated in accordance with
2.12.26.
2.12.24
Subject to confirmation by the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation to Canada that it will not be asking Canada to assume financial or other obligations
in relation to an estate in fee simple in a parcel of land returned to that Maa‑nulth First
Nation in accordance with 2.12.23, such parcel of land will be added to its Maa‑nulth First
Nations Lands upon the Maa‑nulth First Nation becoming the owner of such land and Appendix B
is deemed to be amended to reflect such addition to Maa‑nulth First Nations Lands, unless
the Maa‑nulth First Nation provides notice to British Columbia and Canada before the date of
such transfer that such land is not to be added to its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands.
2.12.25
The federal department, agency or person for whom the land
was expropriated may decide, without the consent of the Governor-in-Council, that the
expropriated Interest in land is no longer required and may determine the Disposition of any
improvements made to the land in a manner consistent with the agreement made in accordance
with 2.12.26.
2.12.26
The terms and conditions of the return of an expropriated
Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, including requirements relating to financial
considerations based on market value principles and the condition of the land to be
returned, including the process for resolving any disputes around the implementation of
these terms and conditions, will be negotiated by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation and
the Federal Expropriating Authority at the time of the expropriation.
2.12.27
Where the terms and conditions of the return of an
expropriated Interest in Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands cannot be agreed upon by the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation and the Federal Expropriating Authority at the time of the
expropriation, either that Maa‑nulth First Nation or Canada, acting on behalf of the Federal
Expropriating Authority, may refer the issue to be finally determined by arbitration in
accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution.
2.12.28
Except as otherwise provided in 2.12.0, no conflict or
dispute between the Parties respecting the interpretation, application or implementation of
2.12.0 will be considered a Disagreement for the purpose of Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution.
2.12.29
For greater certainty, and subject to 2.12.30, except to the
extent that the provisions of this Chapter modify the application of federal legislation
relating to an expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, all federal legislation
relating to expropriation applies to an expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands under
this Chapter.
2.12.30
For greater certainty, this Agreement prevails to the extent
of an inconsistency with the federal
Expropriation Act
or other federal
legislation relating to an expropriation of Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
2.12.31
For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement affects or
limits the application of the federal
Emergencies Act
and the federal
Emergencies Act
will continue to apply in all aspects to Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands.
2.13.0  COMMERCIAL RECREATION TENURE
2.13.1
The Minister will, on or before the Effective Date, designate
up to 12 hectares of provincial Crown land for each Maa‑nulth First Nation under section 17
(1) of the
Land Act
, for a term of at least 15 years from the date of such
designation, for the purpose of providing the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation an
opportunity to apply for a commercial recreation tenure in accordance with Provincial
Law.
2.13.2
Notwithstanding section 17 (3) of the
Land
Act
, the Minister will not amend or cancel a designation referred to in 2.13.1
without the consent of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation unless the designated lands are
required by British Columbia for regional infrastructure and British Columbia has made
reasonable attempts to secure other provincial Crown lands that would not impact the
designated lands.
2.13.3
Subject to 2.13.2, British Columbia will continue to manage
and use provincial Crown lands designated in accordance with 2.13.1.
2.13.4
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation may apply to British Columbia for
a commercial recreation tenure in respect of the lands within its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Area that are designated for that Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
2.13.1.
SCHEDULE 1 — SURVEY PROCEDURE
1. If any Party undertakes a field survey of a part of a Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands boundary in accordance with either 2.5.0 or 2.6.0, the Party instigating or in charge
of the survey will provide notice to the Surveyor General of British Columbia of the
intention to undertake such field survey.
2. Following receipt of a notice in accordance with paragraph 1, the Surveyor
General of British Columbia will prepare survey instructions and, once approved by the
affected Parties, issue survey instructions to the Land Surveyor designated to undertake the
survey.
3. The Land Surveyor will provide copies of any survey returns, prepared in
accordance with a designation contemplated by paragraph 2, to the Surveyor General of
British Columbia and to the affected Parties.
4. Within 30 days after a Party receives a copy of a survey return from the Land
Surveyor, the Party will provide, in writing, to the Surveyor General of British Columbia,
its approval of the survey return or any recommendation of that Party.
5. If the affected Parties approve a survey return, the Surveyor General of
British Columbia will request the Land Surveyor to submit the final plan to the Surveyor
General of British Columbia for confirmation.
6. If the affected Parties recommend the issuance of further instructions to the
Land Surveyor, the Surveyor General of British Columbia will compile any recommendations
received in respect of the survey return and submit the further instructions to the affected
Parties for approval.
7. Upon receipt of the approval referred to in paragraph 6, the Surveyor General
of British Columbia will then issue further instructions to the Land Surveyor to amend the
survey return.
8. Upon receipt of the amended survey return, the Surveyor General of British
Columbia will seek written consent to the amendments from the affected
Parties.
9. Upon receipt of the consent contemplated by paragraph 8, the Surveyor General
of British Columbia will request the Land Surveyor to submit the final plan to the Surveyor
General of British Columbia for confirmation.
10. Upon confirmation of the final plan, the Surveyor General of British Columbia
will file one copy of the plan in the Crown land registry and will forward one copy to each
of the affected Parties.
SCHEDULE 2 — CONTAMINATED SITE REMEDIATION
SITE DESCRIPTION
DEEMED USE OF SITE AS PER
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGAMENT
ACT
The Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Toquaht Nation described as "Subject
Lands" in Appendix B-3, Part 4, Plan 1.
industrial land use
The Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands of Toquaht Nation described as "Subject
Lands" in Appendix B-3, Part 4, Plan 2.
commercial land use
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
