View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 23 — FEDERAL PARKS AND PROTECTED AREAS
23.1.0  GENERAL
23.1.1
The applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation has a right to carry out
Renewable Resource Harvesting Activities in the Renewable Resource Harvesting Area of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation.
23.1.2
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting
Right is limited by measures necessary for conservation, public health or public
safety.
23.1.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right.
23.1.4
A Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right
may be exercised by every Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation except as otherwise
provided under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government.
23.1.5
Subject to 23.1.6, no Maa‑nulth‑aht is required to have any
federal licence or pay any fee or royalty to Canada relating to the exercise of a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right.
23.1.6
Nothing in this Agreement affects Canada's ability to require
any Maa‑nulth‑aht to obtain licences or permits for the use and possession of firearms under
Federal Law on the same basis as other aboriginal people of Canada.
23.1.7
This Agreement does not alter Federal Law or Provincial Law in
respect of property in the renewable resources harvested under a Maa‑nulth First Nation
Renewable Resource Harvesting Right.
23.1.8
The Minister retains authority for the management,
administration and control of National Parks and National Marine Conservation Areas, or any
other protected areas that are owned by Canada and administered under the jurisdiction of
the Parks Canada Agency.
23.2.0  TRADE AND BARTER AND SALE
23.2.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to Trade and Barter
among themselves, or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident in British Columbia any
renewable resources harvested under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting
Right.
23.2.2
A Maa‑nulth First Nation right to Trade and Barter in
accordance with 23.2.1 may be exercised by a Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation
except as otherwise provided in a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government made under 23.4.1d.
23.2.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its right to Trade
and Barter described in 23.2.1.
23.2.4
Renewable resources harvested by a Maa‑nulth First Nation or
its Maa‑nulth‑aht under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation may not be sold, except for:
a. fur-bearing land mammals, or
b. renewable resources that are used for the making of traditional crafts and
artistic objects.
23.2.5
For greater certainty, the use, taking or cutting of selected
Timber Resources from any National Park or National Marine Conservation Area is not
permitted for sale or commercial use, or for use as construction material.
23.3.0  TRANSPORT AND EXPORT
23.3.1
Any transport or export of renewable resources harvested under
a Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right will be in accordance with
Federal Law or Provincial Law.
23.4.0  LAW-MAKING
23.4.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws in
respect of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right
for:
a. the distribution of harvested renewable resources among the Maa‑nulth‑aht of
the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. designating the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation who may carry out
Renewable Resource Harvesting Activities;
c. documenting the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation who have been
designated as harvesters; and
d. the Trade and Barter of renewable resources harvested by the Maa‑nulth‑aht of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
23.4.2
Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 23.4.1 prevails to the extent
of a Conflict with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
23.5.0  DOCUMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT
23.5.1
A Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will issue documentation
to the Maa‑nulth‑aht of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation who harvest renewable
resources under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation.
23.5.2
A Maa‑nulth‑aht who harvests renewable resources under a
Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right is required to carry
documentation issued by the Maa‑nulth First Nation Government of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation and to produce that documentation on the request of an authorized
individual.
23.5.3
Documentation issued by a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government in
accordance with 23.5.1 will:
a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative, and, at the
discretion of the applicable Maa‑nulth Government, in the Nuu‑chah‑nulth
language;
b. include the name and address of the Maa‑nulth‑aht; and
c. meet any requirements described in a Maa‑nulth Permit or Federal
Law.
23.6.0  CO-OPERATION IN RENEWABLE RESOURCE HARVESTING
23.6.1
Each year or as otherwise agreed, Canada and each applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation will meet to discuss and develop terms and conditions upon which the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right of that Maa‑nulth First Nation
may be exercised and will make reasonable efforts to reach consensus on the terms and
conditions in accordance with 23.6.2.
23.6.2
In developing the terms and conditions referred to in 23.6.1,
Canada and that Maa‑nulth First Nation will take into account:
a. the conservation and ecological integrity requirements and availability of the
renewable resources to which the terms and conditions would relate;
b. the Maa‑nulth First Nation's preferences, if any, in respect of methods,
timing, frequency and locations for harvesting;
c. the use of that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area for the
benefit and enjoyment of all Canadians;
d. any other authorized uses of that National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area;
e. opportunities for similar harvesting activities outside that National Park or
National Marine Conservation Area as otherwise provided in this Agreement;
f. use of the harvested renewable resources for making traditional handicrafts or
artistic objects for sale;
g. requirements for management of that National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area;
h. renewable resource harvesting activities, if any, by other aboriginal people;
and
i. any other matters Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nation consider
appropriate.
23.6.3
Before the development of the terms and conditions referred to
in 23.6.1, each applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation will Consult with overlapping First
Nations who may carry out harvesting activities in the Renewable Resource Harvesting Area of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation. Recommendations developed as a result of such Consultation may
be included in the terms and conditions developed in accordance with 23.6.1 and will be
considered by the Minister in developing the terms and conditions, if any, set out in a
Maa‑nulth Permit for that Maa‑nulth First Nation issued in accordance with 23.6.4 or
23.6.5.
23.6.4
Where Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nation agree on terms and
conditions in accordance with 23.6.1, the Minister will, upon receipt and consideration of
those terms and conditions, issue a Maa‑nulth Permit to that Maa‑nulth First Nation setting
out terms and conditions, if any, of the Renewable Resource Harvesting Activities within the
applicable Renewable Resource Harvesting Area.
23.6.5
Where Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nation do not agree on
terms and conditions in accordance with 23.6.1, the Minister:
a. may make the decision or take the action, including issuing a Maa‑nulth
Permit, that the Minister considers necessary, and
b. will advise the Maa‑nulth First Nation of the circumstances and the decision
made or action taken.
23.6.6
Harvesting under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource
Harvesting Right will be in accordance with the applicable Maa‑nulth Permit and the
management plan for the applicable National Park or National Marine Conservation
Area.
23.6.7
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will provide to the Minister, upon
request, information concerning the activities of its Maa‑nulth‑aht related to the exercise
of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right.
23.6.8
Canada will Consult with each applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation concerning any proposed amendment to Federal Law that is reasonably expected to
affect the Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation.
23.6.9
The Minister may, after Consultation with each applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation, close areas in any National Park or National Marine Conservation
Area to any Renewable Resource Harvesting Activities for purposes of park or marine
conservation area management.
23.7.0  CONSERVATION MEASURES
23.7.1
Where, in the opinion of Canada, conservation measures are
needed within a Renewable Resource Harvesting Area, and those measures are likely to affect
the Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right of a Maa‑nulth First Nation,
Canada will Consult with that Maa‑nulth First Nation regarding such conservation
measures.
23.7.2
After the Consultation contemplated by 23.7.1, the Minister
may amend and re-issue a Maa‑nulth Permit to the extent required to bring into effect the
conservation measures.
23.8.0  PACIFIC RIM NATIONAL PARK
23.8.1
On or after the Effective Date, Canada may establish as part
of Pacific Rim National Park those portions of Pacific Rim National Park Reserve lying
within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Areas, subject to resolution of any overlaps with other
First Nations.
23.9.0  NATIONAL PARKS AND NATIONAL MARINE CONSERVATION
AREAS
23.9.1
Canada will Consult with each Maa‑nulth First Nation before
the establishment of any new National Park or National Marine Conservation Area within its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Area.
23.9.2
Except for Pacific Rim National Park Reserve, no part of a
National Park or National Marine Conservation Area that lies within a Maa‑nulth First Nation
Area will be removed from that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area without
the consent of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation.
23.9.3
If Canada conducts studies in relation to enlarging a National
Park or National Marine Conservation Area within a Maa‑nulth First Nation Area, the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation will be invited to participate in the design and conduct
of the studies and will be provided with the results.
23.9.4
Where a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area is
wholly or partially within the Maa‑nulth First Nation Areas, every Maa‑nulth‑aht has access,
without a fee being charged for entrance to and within that National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area, but Canada may charge fees in relation to visitor facilities and
services.
23.10.0  CO-OPERATION IN PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
23.10.1
Where a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area is
wholly or partially within a Maa‑nulth First Nation Area, Canada will Consult with the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation regarding that Maa‑nulth First Nation's:
a. role in the interim planning and management planning of that National Park or
National Marine Conservation Area;
b. role in research, protection, identification, interpretation and presentation
of any area in that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area which has heritage
value to a Maa‑nulth First Nation, other aboriginal people, or other Canadians and may
include a traditional use site, archaeological site, burial site or sacred site that is of
significance to that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
c. role in the identification, protection, interpretation and presentation of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Artifacts within or related to that National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area;
d. role in the interpretation and presentation of Maa‑nulth First Nation
heritage, where applicable, including Nuu‑chah‑nulth language use in signage and
interpretation, within or related to that National Park or National Marine Conservation
Area;
e. traditional ecological knowledge being considered in the natural history and
management of that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area;
f. role in research, protection, use and management of special marine areas
within that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area; and
g. interests in economic, employment and training opportunities in or associated
with that National Park or National Marine Conservation Area.
23.10.2
At the request of the Maa‑nulth First Nation Consulted with
in accordance with 23.10.1, Canada and that Maa‑nulth First Nation will make reasonable
efforts to enter into an agreement regarding arrangements for cooperation in the planning
and management of the applicable National Park or National Marine Conservation Area in order
to provide advice to the Minister regarding the matters identified in
23.10.1.
23.10.3
An agreement made in accordance with 23.10.2 will take the
place of the Consultation contemplated by 23.10.1 for the term of the
agreement.
23.10.4
An agreement made in accordance with 23.10.2 may provide for
an advisory structure and include:
a. representation in the advisory structure;
b. procedures for the advisory structure, including a consensus seeking approach
and a dispute resolution process;
c. procedures related to cooperation in renewable resource harvesting and
cultural activities;
d. procedures for the advisory structure to interact with the Joint Fisheries
Committee on matters, including recommendations to the Minister, relating to the harvest of
Fish and Aquatic Plants in a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area that is
wholly or partially within the Domestic Fishing Area; and
e. any other matters as agreed by Canada and the Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
23.10.5
Canada and the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nations will enter
into an agreement in respect of Pacific Rim National Park Reserve in accordance with
23.10.2, which will come into effect on the Effective Date.
23.10.6
Where any National Park or National Marine Conservation Area
is wholly or partially within two or more Maa‑nulth First Nation Areas, the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nations will make reasonable efforts to jointly participate in the processes
contemplated by 23.10.1 and 23.10.7.
23.10.7
Where any National Park or National Marine Conservation Area
is wholly or partially within a Maa‑nulth First Nation Area and that of any other aboriginal
group who has expressed that it has a historical relationship to the region encompassing the
National Park or National Marine Conservation Area, Canada and the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nations agree to make reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other aboriginal group
in the process of planning and management of any such National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
