View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 12 — MIGRATORY BIRDS
12.1.0  GENERAL
12.1.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to harvest Migratory
Birds for Domestic Purposes in the Migratory Bird Harvest Area in accordance with this
Agreement.
12.1.2
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds
is limited by measures necessary for conservation, public health or public
safety.
12.1.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.
12.1.4
A Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds may
be exercised by every Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation except as otherwise
provided under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government.
12.1.5
British Columbia may authorize uses of or Dispose of
provincial Crown land, and any authorized use or Disposition may affect the methods, times
and locations of harvesting Migratory Birds under this Agreement, provided that British
Columbia ensures that those authorized uses or Dispositions do not deny a Maa‑nulth First
Nation the reasonable opportunity to harvest Migratory Birds under its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds.
12.1.6
For the purposes of 12.1.5, British Columbia and the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a process
to evaluate the impact of authorized uses or Dispositions of provincial Crown land on that
Maa‑nulth First Nation's reasonable opportunity to harvest Migratory Birds.
12.1.7
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will exercise its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds in a manner that does not interfere with authorized
uses or Dispositions of Crown land existing on the Effective Date or authorized in
accordance with 12.1.5.
12.1.8
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation may exercise its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds on fee simple lands within the Migratory Bird
Harvest Area, other than Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, but that harvesting is subject to
Federal Law or Provincial Law in respect of access to fee simple lands.
12.1.9
A Maa‑nulth First Nation or a Maa‑nulth‑aht may enter into an
agreement with a federal department or agency to authorize the harvest of Migratory Birds by
that Maa‑nulth First Nation or that Maa‑nulth‑aht on land owned by that federal department
or agency in accordance with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
12.1.10
Subject to 12.1.11, no Maa‑nulth‑aht is required to have any
federal or provincial licence or pay any fee or royalty to Canada or British Columbia
relating to the exercise of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.
12.1.11
Nothing in this Agreement affects Canada's ability to require
any Maa‑nulth‑aht to obtain licences for the use and possession of firearms under Federal
Law on the same basis as other aboriginal people of Canada.
12.1.12
Nothing in this Agreement alters Federal Law or Provincial
Law in respect of property in Migratory Birds.
12.1.13
Nothing in this Agreement precludes a Maa‑nulth‑aht from
harvesting Migratory Birds throughout Canada in accordance with:
a. Federal Law or Provincial Law;
b. any agreements, that are in accordance with Federal Law or Provincial Law,
between a Maa‑nulth First Nation and other aboriginal people; or
c. any arrangements between other aboriginal people and Canada or British
Columbia.
12.1.14
The Minister retains authority for managing and conserving
Migratory Birds and Migratory Bird habitat.
12.2.0  TRADE AND BARTER
12.2.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to Trade and Barter
among themselves, or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident in British Columbia,
any Migratory Birds harvested under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.
12.2.2
A Maa‑nulth First Nation right to Trade and Barter in
accordance with 12.2.1 may be exercised by a Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation
except as otherwise provided in a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government made under 12.5.1d.
12.2.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its right to Trade
and Barter described in 12.2.1.
12.3.0  SALE
12.3.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation and its Maa‑nulth‑aht may only
sell Migratory Birds harvested under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds of that Maa‑nulth First Nation if:
a. permitted under Federal Law or Provincial Law; and
b. in accordance with Federal Law, Provincial Law and any Maa‑nulth First Nation
Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Government enacted under 12.5.3b.
12.3.2
Notwithstanding 12.3.1, each Maa‑nulth First Nation and its
Maa‑nulth‑aht may sell inedible byproducts, including down, of Migratory Birds harvested
under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds of that Maa‑nulth First
Nation in accordance with any Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation Government enacted under 12.5.1e.
12.4.0  TRANSPORT AND EXPORT
12.4.1
Any transport or export of Migratory Birds and their inedible
byproducts, including down, harvested under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest
Migratory Birds will be in accordance with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
12.5.0  LAW-MAKING
12.5.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws in
respect of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds
for:
a. the distribution of harvested Migratory Birds among the Maa‑nulth‑aht of the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. designating the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation to harvest
Migratory Birds;
c. the methods, timing, and location of the harvest of Migratory Birds by the
Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation;
d. the Trade and Barter of Migratory Birds harvested by the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation; and
e. the sale of inedible byproducts, including down, of Migratory Birds harvested
by the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
12.5.2
Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 12.5.1 prevails to the extent
of a Conflict with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
12.5.3
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws in
respect of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds
for:
a. the management of Migratory Birds and Migratory Bird habitat on the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation;
b. the sale of Migratory Birds harvested by the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation, other than their inedible byproducts, if permitted under and in accordance
with Federal Law or Provincial Law;
c. the establishment and administration of licensing requirements for the harvest
of Migratory Birds by the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation; and
d. documenting the Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation who have been
designated as harvesters.
12.5.4
Federal Law or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 12.5.3.
12.6.0  DOCUMENTATION
12.6.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will issue
documentation to the Maa‑nulth‑aht of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation who harvest
Migratory Birds under the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.
12.6.2
A Maa‑nulth‑aht who harvests Migratory Birds under a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds is required to carry documentation issued by
the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Government and to produce that documentation on
request by an authorized individual.
12.6.3
Documentation issued by a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government in
accordance with 12.6.1 will:
a. be in the English language, which version is authoritative, and, at the
discretion of that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, in the Nuu‑chah‑nulth language;
and
b. include the name and address of the Maa‑nulth‑aht.
12.7.0  MIGRATORY BIRD HARVEST AREA
12.7.1
If after the Effective Date Canada and British Columbia enter
into a treaty within the meaning of section 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
with a Nuu‑chah‑nulth First Nation, other than a Maa‑nulth First Nation, the
Parties will review the boundaries of the Migratory Bird Harvest Area and consider
amendments, if any, to this Agreement.
12.8.0  MANAGEMENT
12.8.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to participate in
any public advisory committee, including any Wildlife advisory committee as described in
11.10.1, that may be established by Canada or British Columbia that addresses matters
regarding Migratory Birds that occur in or impact the Migratory Bird Harvest
Area.
12.9.0  CONSERVATION MEASURES
12.9.1
Where, in the opinion of the Minister, conservation measures
are needed within the Migratory Bird Harvest Area to protect a particular population of
Migratory Bird, and those measures are likely to affect the Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds of a Maa‑nulth First Nation, Canada will Consult with that Maa‑nulth
First Nation regarding such conservation measures.
12.9.2
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation is of the opinion that
conservation measures are needed within the Migratory Bird Harvest area to protect a
particular population of Migratory Bird that is harvested by that Maa‑nulth First Nation
under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds, that Maa‑nulth First
Nation may present its views to Canada in respect of such conservation measures and Canada
will give full and fair consideration to that Maa‑nulth First Nation's views.
12.9.3
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will provide to the
Minister upon request, for Migratory Bird conservation purposes, information concerning the
activities of the Maa‑nulth‑aht of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation related to the
exercise of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory
Birds.
12.10.0  DESIGNATED MIGRATORY BIRD POPULATIONS
12.10.1
Where the Minister, after Consulting with the Parties,
determines that there is a conservation risk to a Migratory Bird population which requires
the allocation of the harvest of that population, the Minister may designate that population
as a Designated Migratory Bird Population.
12.10.2
Where, in the opinion of any Party, there is a conservation
risk to a Migratory Bird population, that Party may make recommendations to the Minister for
the designation of that population as a Designated Migratory Bird Population.
12.10.3
The Minister will, after Consulting with the Parties,
determine the Total Allowable Migratory Bird Harvest of the Designated Migratory Bird
Population.
12.10.4
In determining the Total Allowable Migratory Bird Harvest for
the Designated Migratory Bird Population, the Minister will take into account, among other
things:
a. the status of the Designated Migratory Bird Population;
b. continental and local conservation requirements; and
c. Canada's international commitments in respect of Migratory
Birds.
12.10.5
The Minister will make an allocation of the Total Allowable
Migratory Bird Harvest for the Designated Migratory Bird Population for the Maa‑nulth First
Nations.
12.10.6
In making an allocation in accordance with 12.10.5, the
Minister will take into account, among other things:
a. the Total Allowable Migratory Bird Harvest for the Designated Migratory Bird
Population;
b. the current and past domestic needs and harvesting practices of the Maa‑nulth
First Nations in respect of the Designated Migratory Bird Population;
c. the extent and nature of the Maa‑nulth First Nations' Maa‑nulth First Nation
Right to Harvest Migratory Birds; and
d. the interests of non-Maa‑nulth‑aht in respect of the Designated Migratory Bird
Population.
12.10.7
On the recommendation of a Party, the Minister may determine
that there is no longer a conservation risk to a Designated Migratory Bird Population and
remove the designation.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
