View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 10 — FISHERIES
10.1.0  FISHING RIGHTS
Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Rights
10.1.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to harvest, in
accordance with this Agreement, Fish and Aquatic Plants for Domestic Purposes in the
Domestic Fishing Area.
10.1.2
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right is limited by
measures necessary for conservation, public health or public safety.
10.1.3
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right.
10.1.4
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has the right to Trade and Barter
among themselves, or with other aboriginal people of Canada, any Fish and Aquatic Plants
harvested under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right. A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not
Dispose of its right to Trade and Barter.
10.1.5
A Maa‑nulth First Nation right to Trade and Barter in
accordance with 10.1.4 may be exercised by a Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation
except as otherwise provided in a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law of the applicable Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government made under 10.1.41c.
10.1.6
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right will be
exercised:
a. in respect of Inter-tidal Bivalves, within the Domestic Fishing Area for
Inter-tidal Bivalves; and
b. in respect of all species of Fish and Aquatic Plants other than Inter-tidal
Bivalves, within the Domestic Fishing Area unless otherwise provided for in a Maa‑nulth
Harvest Document.
10.1.7
Nothing in this Agreement precludes:
a. a Maa‑nulth‑aht from harvesting Fish and Aquatic Plants under a licence,
permit, or other document issued under Federal Law or Provincial Law;
b. a Maa‑nulth First Nation from concluding agreements, that are in accordance
with Federal Law and Provincial Law, with other aboriginal groups relating to harvesting
Fish and Aquatic Plants; and
c. a Maa‑nulth‑aht from being designated by another aboriginal group to harvest
Fish and Aquatic Plants under federal or provincial arrangements with that aboriginal
group.
10.1.8
The Minister retains authority for managing and conserving
Fish, Aquatic Plants and Fish habitat.
10.1.9
Fish and Aquatic Plants harvested under a Maa‑nulth First
Nation Fishing Right cannot be sold.
10.1.10
British Columbia may authorize uses of or Dispose of
provincial Crown land and any authorized use or Disposition may affect the methods, times
and locations of harvesting Fish and Aquatic Plants under this Agreement, provided that
British Columbia ensures that those authorized uses or Dispositions do not deny a Maa‑nulth
First Nation the reasonable opportunity to harvest Fish and Aquatic Plants under its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right.
10.1.11
For the purpose of 10.1.10, British Columbia and the
Maa‑nulth First Nation will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a process to
evaluate the impact of authorized uses or Dispositions of provincial Crown land on that
Maa‑nulth First Nation's reasonable opportunity to harvest Fish and Aquatic
Plants.
10.1.12
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will exercise its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Fishing Right in a manner that does not interfere with other authorized uses or
Dispositions of provincial Crown land existing on the Effective Date or authorized in
accordance with 10.1.10.
10.1.13
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has reasonable access to and over
federal Crown lands to allow for the exercise of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Right.
10.1.14
The Maa‑nulth First Nation access in accordance with 10.1.13
will be exercised in a manner that does not interfere with the use, grant, creation or
Disposition of an interest in federal Crown land from time to time.
10.1.15
If the use, grant, creation or Disposition of an Interest in
federal Crown land would deny a Maa‑nulth First Nation access in accordance with 10.1.13,
Canada will ensure that alternate reasonable access is provided.
10.1.16
Notwithstanding 10.1.13, access to and on an Indian Reserve
is subject to the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation obtaining the consent of the Indian Band
for whom the Indian Reserve is set aside.
10.1.17
Nothing in this Agreement alters Federal Law or Provincial
Law in respect of property in Fish or Aquatic Plants.
10.1.18
For Fish and Aquatic Plants harvested under its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right, the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation will provide catch data
and other information as required by Maa‑nulth Harvest Documents, Federal Law or Provincial
Law.
Maa‑nulth Fish Allocations
10.1.19
The Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation:
a. for chinook salmon is described in Schedule 1;
b. for chum salmon is described in Schedule 2;
c. for coho salmon is described in Schedule 3;
d. for pink salmon is described in Schedule 4;
e. for sockeye salmon is described in Schedule 5;
f. for each of herring, halibut, Rockfish, Groundfish and sablefish, is described
in Schedule 6; and
g. for Inter-tidal Bivalves is described in Schedule 7.
10.1.20
Harvesting from the areas described in Schedule 7 is subject
to the continuation of Interests described in Part 2 of Appendix P.
10.1.21
Except as described in 2.9.0, nothing in this Agreement
creates a responsibility on the part of any Party to remediate contamination within the
Domestic Fishing Area.
10.1.22
In any year where the Minister determines, in respect of a
species or stock of Fish or Aquatic Plants for which there is a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation
that:
a. is a fixed amount; or
b. has a minimum amount,
that the quantity of a species or stock of Fish or Aquatic Plant that is
available for harvest is not sufficient to meet all quantities anticipated for allocations
from the species or stock to the Maa‑nulth First Nations and other aboriginal groups for
Domestic Purposes, the Minister will take into account any written recommendations from the
Joint Fisheries Committee and may reduce the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species or
stock for that year.
10.1.23
If the Minister does not follow the recommendations from the
Joint Fisheries Committee referred to in 10.1.22 the Minister will provide written reasons
for any reduction in the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation.
Unallocated Species
10.1.24
Where a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for a species of Fish or
Aquatic Plant is not established under this Agreement, that species of Fish or Aquatic Plant
may be harvested under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right in accordance with a Maa‑nulth
Harvest Document.
10.1.25
Where a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for a species of Fish or
Aquatic Plant has not been established under this Agreement, Canada, British Columbia or the
Maa‑nulth First Nations may propose the establishment of a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for
that species by providing the other Parties with a written proposal and providing a copy of
the proposal to the Joint Fisheries Committee.
10.1.26
Following receipt of a proposal made in accordance with
10.1.25, the Joint Fisheries Committee will consider the proposal and, where all of the
members agree, provide a recommendation to the Parties in respect of a basic harvest
entitlement for the species and a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species, taking into
account:
a. base period information on harvesting by Maa‑nulth First Nations of that
species for Domestic Purposes;
b. harvesting by other aboriginal groups of that species for Domestic
Purposes;
c. measures necessary for conservation;
d. harvesting of the species required for:
i. the management of that species; and
ii. enhancement of that species;
e. the impact of harvesting by others on a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
and
f. other relevant information.
10.1.27
Where, six months after receipt of a proposal made in
accordance with 10.1.25, all of the members of the Joint Fisheries Committee have not agreed
on a recommendation, the Joint Fisheries Committee will notify the Parties that they are
unable to agree on a recommendation.
10.1.28
Following receipt of a recommendation contemplated by 10.1.26
or the notice contemplated by 10.1.27, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach
agreement on a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species taking into account the
recommendations, if any, provided by the Joint Fisheries Committee and any other relevant
information.
10.1.29
Where the Parties agree on a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for
the species, the Parties will confirm their agreement in writing and Schedule 6 and 10.1.19
are deemed to be amended upon completion of the written confirmation.
10.1.30
For the purposes of 10.1.26, 10.1.33 and 10.1.34, the basic
harvest entitlement for a species of Fish or Aquatic Plant is the average annual harvest by
the Maa‑nulth First Nations of that species for Domestic Purposes over the base period for
that species.
10.1.31
For the purposes of 10.1.26 and 10.1.30, a base period is a
period of ten calendar years immediately preceding the date of the proposal made in
accordance with 10.1.25 or such other period agreed to by the Parties.
10.1.32
Where all members of the Joint Fisheries Committee agree, the
Joint Fisheries Committee may recommend to the Parties that studies, in respect of the
matters described in 10.1.26, be conducted to assist the members in reaching agreement on a
recommendation. Where the Parties agree with the recommendation of the Joint Fisheries
Committee for studies, the Parties may agree to extend the time period contemplated by
10.1.27 or 10.1.33.
10.1.33
If the Parties are unable to reach agreement on a Maa‑nulth
Fish Allocation for the species within one year of a proposal being made in accordance with
10.1.25 or a shorter time period if the Parties agree, the basic harvest entitlement for the
species will be finally determined by arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution without having to proceed through Stages One and Two. The arbitrator will
determine the Maa‑nulth First Nations basic harvest entitlement for the species of Fish or
Aquatic Plant within a period of not more than one year and then the arbitrator will provide
a decision to the Parties.
10.1.34
In an arbitration referred to in 10.1.33, Canada,
British Columbia or the Maa‑nulth First Nations may request an arbitrator to describe a
basic harvest entitlement for a species as a share of an abundance of the
species.
10.1.35
In an arbitration referred to in 10.1.33, the arbitrator will
take into account the matters described in 10.1.26.
10.1.36
Once the arbitrator provides the decision to the Parties as
contemplated by 10.1.33, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on the
Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species, taking into account the decision of the
arbitrator.
10.1.37
If the Parties agree on a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the
species in accordance with 10.1.36, the Parties will confirm their agreement and Schedule 6
and 10.1.19 are deemed to be amended on the date the last Party provides its
confirmation.
10.1.38
If, six months after the arbitrator provides a decision to
the Parties as contemplated by 10.1.33, the Parties are unable to reach agreement on the
Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for the species is
125% of the basic harvest entitlement determined by the arbitrator in accordance with
10.1.33.
Law-Making
10.1.39
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws
for:
a. the distribution of the Fish and Aquatic Plants harvested under the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation among the Maa‑nulth‑aht
of that Maa‑nulth First Nation; and
b. the designation of individuals or vessels used to harvest under the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
10.1.40
Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 10.1.39 prevails to the
extent of a Conflict with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
10.1.41
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government may make laws
for:
a. the documentation of individuals designated by the applicable Maa‑nulth First
Nation to harvest under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
b. the documentation of vessels designated by that Maa‑nulth First Nation to be
used to harvest under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right; and
c. the Trade and Barter of Fish and Aquatic Plants harvested under the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
10.1.42
Federal Law or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a
Conflict with Maa‑nulth First Nation Law under 10.1.41.
Designation
10.1.43
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right may be exercised by
those Maa‑nulth‑aht or other individuals designated by the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
to harvest Fish and Aquatic Plants under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Right.
10.1.44
Where a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation has been established for a
species of Fish or Aquatic Plant, each Maa‑nulth First Nation may designate its
Maa‑nulth‑aht or other individuals to harvest the species under its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Fishing Right.
10.1.45
Where a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation has not been established
for a species of Fish or Aquatic Plant, each Maa‑nulth First Nation may designate its
Maa‑nulth‑aht to harvest the species under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Right.
10.1.46
Where a Maa‑nulth‑aht harvests Fish or Aquatic Plants under a
Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right, that Maa‑nulth‑aht is not required to have a federal
or provincial fishing licence.
10.1.47
Subject to 10.1.50 and in addition to what is provided for in
10.1.45, where a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for a species of Fish or Aquatic Plants has not
been established, a Maa‑nulth First Nation may designate an individual to harvest the
species on behalf of a Maa‑nulth‑aht of that Maa‑nulth First Nation for a year
if:
a. the Maa‑nulth‑aht is unable to harvest the species due to health
reasons;
b. the individual is a family member of the Maa‑nulth‑aht; and
c. the individual is identified in the written notice for that year contemplated
in 10.1.48.
10.1.48
Subject to 10.1.50, each year the Maa‑nulth First Nations may
identify, by written notice to the Minister, individuals who are family members of a
Maa‑nulth‑aht, but who are not a Maa‑nulth‑aht themselves, who have been designated in
accordance with 10.1.47.
10.1.49
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not designate a
non-Maa‑nulth‑aht to harvest, on behalf of a Maa‑nulth‑aht, Fish or Aquatic Plants managed
by British Columbia.
10.1.50
An individual designated in accordance with 10.1.47 may not
use a vessel to harvest under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right if that vessel is
authorized, by licence, to be used for commercial fishing.
10.1.51
Before a vessel is used to harvest Fish or Aquatic Plants
under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right, the vessel will be designated by the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation. This provision does not alter the application of Federal
Law or Provincial Law in respect of foreign fishing vessels in Canadian
waters.
10.1.52
When a Maa‑nulth First Nation designates a Maa‑nulth‑aht,
other individual or vessel, that Maa‑nulth First Nation will issue written documentation to
the Maa‑nulth‑aht, other individual or vessel to indicate the designation.
10.1.53
Documentation issued by a Maa‑nulth First Nation to a
Maa‑nulth‑aht, other individual or vessel to indicate a designation:
a. will be in the English language, which version is authoritative, and, at the
discretion of the Maa‑nulth First Nation, in the Nuu‑chah‑nulth language;
b. will, in the case of an individual, include the name and address of the
individual;
c. will meet any requirements described in the applicable Maa‑nulth Harvest
Document and the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines; and
d. may set out methods, timing, location of harvesting and individual allocations
consistent with the applicable Maa‑nulth Harvest Document.
10.2.0  COMMERCIAL FISHERIES
Harvest Agreement
10.2.1
Canada, British Columbia and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will
enter into a Maa‑nulth Harvest Agreement which will come into effect on the Effective
Date.
10.2.2
In accordance with the terms of the Maa‑nulth Harvest
Agreement, a Party may terminate the Maa‑nulth Harvest Agreement and it will compensate the
Maa‑nulth First Nations.
10.2.3
If the highest domestic court that considers the Litigation
determines that one or more of the plaintiffs has an aboriginal right to fish for salmon,
halibut, Rockfish, roe herring, sablefish, prawn or crab and to sell the fish caught under
that right on a commercial basis, upon the written request of the Maa‑nulth First Nations
provided within eight years of such determination, the Parties will amend this Agreement and
the Maa‑nulth Harvest Agreement as described in the Maa‑nulth Harvest
Agreement.
10.2.4
No compensation is payable under this Agreement or the
Maa‑nulth Harvest Agreement as a result of amendments made in accordance with
10.2.3.
New Emerging Fisheries
10.2.5
Where the Minister proposes to establish a new emerging
commercial fishery in the Pacific region, the Minister will advise the Maa‑nulth First
Nations of the proposal, and any participation by the Maa‑nulth First Nations in any new
emerging commercial fishery authorized by the Minister will be determined in accordance with
the process established by the Minister.
10.2.6
Where the Minister proposes to establish a new emerging
commercial fishery off the west coast of Vancouver Island, the Minister will advise the
Maa‑nulth First Nations of the proposal and Consult with the Maa‑nulth First Nations on a
process for participants to enter the fishery and on how the fishery should be allocated
among participants.
Aquaculture Tenures
10.2.7
On the Effective Date the Minister will designate, under
section 17 (1) of the
Land Act
, for the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation,
those lands described as "Designated Shellfish Aquaculture Site — Reserve File Number" in
the applicable Appendix O for a term of 25 years, for the purpose of providing that
Maa‑nulth First Nation with an opportunity to apply for shellfish aquaculture
tenures.
10.2.8
Notwithstanding section 17 (3) of the
Land
Act
, the Minister will not amend or cancel a designation referred to in 10.2.7
without the consent of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation.
10.2.9
Subject to 10.2.8, British Columbia will continue to manage
and use lands designated in accordance with 10.2.7.
10.2.10
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may apply to British Columbia for
shellfish aquaculture tenures in respect of the lands that have been designated for that
Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 10.2.7.
10.2.11
A Maa‑nulth First Nation may not Dispose of any shellfish
aquaculture tenure established on or after the Effective Date on an Inter-tidal Bivalve
beach described in Schedule 7.
Commercial Fishing Licences
10.2.12
On the Effective Date, Canada will issue to the Maa‑nulth
First Nations the general commercial fishing licences described in Schedule 8. The
description of the licences is based on the fisheries management and licensing system at the
time this Agreement was initialled by the chief negotiators for Canada and British Columbia
and by the lead negotiator for the Maa‑nulth First Nations. If the fisheries management or
licensing system changes before the Effective Date, the licences described in Schedule 8
will be changed to the new system on the same basis as licences in the general commercial
fishery.
10.3.0  HARVEST OF SURPLUS SALMON
10.3.1
Each year the Minister may determine whether there is a
surplus of a species of salmon that returns to spawn in the Domestic Fishing Area, the size
of the surplus, and access to that surplus.
10.3.2
The Joint Fisheries Committee may recommend to the Minister
procedures for the identification of a surplus and terms and conditions for the harvest of
the surplus.
10.3.3
The Minister may permit the Maa‑nulth First Nations to harvest
some or all of the surplus salmon that return to spawn in the Domestic Fishing Area on
reaching agreement with the Maa‑nulth First Nations in respect of:
a. the terms and conditions of the harvest; and
b. whether all or part of the harvest will be included in the determination of
overages and underages in accordance with the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational
Guidelines.
10.4.0  FISHERIES MANAGEMENT
Joint Fisheries Committee
10.4.1
The Joint Fisheries Committee operates to facilitate, in
accordance with this Agreement, the co-operative planning and management of:
a. the exercise of each Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
b. activities of the Maa‑nulth First Nations related to stock assessment,
Enhancement Initiatives, Stewardship Activities and Fish habitat;
c. activities of the Maa‑nulth First Nations related to fisheries monitoring and
enforcement;
d. activities of the Maa‑nulth First Nations related to environmental protection
and ocean management activities; and
e. other matters as Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations may
agree.
10.4.2
In facilitating cooperative activities and functions in
accordance with 10.4.1, the Joint Fisheries Committee may:
a. discuss publicly available information for proposed new emerging fisheries and
other fisheries that may be conducted in the Domestic Fishing Area or could significantly
affect a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
b. discuss publicly available information that is related to measures necessary
for conservation, public health or public safety that could significantly affect a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right;
c. discuss publicly available information that relates to proposed Enhancement
Initiatives in the Domestic Fishing Area;
d. arrange for the collection and exchange of publicly available data on
fisheries;
e. discuss possible provisions for an Annual Fishing Plan before the Maa‑nulth
First Nations develop an Annual Fishing Plan and possible provisions for Maa‑nulth Harvest
Documents;
f. discuss an Annual Fishing Plan;
g. discuss a proposal by a Maa‑nulth First Nation for Enhancement
Initiatives;
h. communicate with other advisory bodies in respect of matters of mutual
interest;
i. discuss publicly available information on issues related to international
arrangements that could significantly affect a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
and
j. carry out other functions and activities as Canada and the Maa‑nulth First
Nations may agree.
10.4.3
Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will establish the
Joint Fisheries Committee on the Effective Date. Canada and each Maa‑nulth First Nation will
appoint one member to the Joint Fisheries Committee.
10.4.4
British Columbia may appoint one member to the Joint Fisheries
Committee. If British Columbia appoints a member to the Joint Fisheries Committee,
references to Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations in 10.4.1, 10.4.2, 10.4.6, 10.4.8,
10.4.14, 10.4.16, 10.4.17, 10.4.18, 10.4.20, 10.4.21, 10.4.22, 10.4.23 and 10.4.26 include
British Columbia.
10.4.5
Each year, the Maa‑nulth First Nations will submit an Annual
Fishing Plan to the Joint Fisheries Committee.
10.4.6
Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will provide each other
with such publicly available information as may reasonably be necessary to enable the Joint
Fisheries Committee to carry out its functions.
10.4.7
Any catch data or other information provided in accordance
with 10.1.18 may, on the request of any Party, be reviewed by the Joint Fisheries Committee
and, as appropriate, used by the Joint Fisheries Committee in making any
recommendation.
10.4.8
The Joint Fisheries Committee will, from time to time as
appropriate, discuss and make recommendations to Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations in
respect of:
a. Maa‑nulth First Nations fisheries for unallocated species and Maa‑nulth Fish
Allocations;
b. relevant fisheries-related data;
c. conservation, public health and public safety considerations that could affect
harvesting under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
d. other fisheries that could significantly affect harvesting under a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right;
e. the management and harvesting of Fish in the Domestic Fishing
Area;
f. recommendations to the Minister on the harvesting of Fish and Aquatic Plants
in a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area that are developed by an advisory
structure and other issues related to Maa‑nulth First Nation harvesting of Fish and Aquatic
Plants in National Parks or National Marine Conservation Areas;
g. the coordination of harvesting under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right
with other fisheries;
h. measures for the monitoring and enforcement of harvesting under a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right;
i. Enhancement Activities conducted by Maa‑nulth First Nations in the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Areas;
j. overages and underages;
k. in-season amendments to Maa‑nulth Harvest Documents;
l. the provisions for Maa‑nulth Harvest Documents, taking into account, among
other things, provisions related to:
i. matters included in an Annual Fishing Plan, where the Maa‑nulth First Nations
provide the Annual Fishing Plan to the Joint Fisheries Committee in a timely
fashion;
ii. measures for establishing harvest amounts for an unallocated species in any
given year;
iii. access to a specific stock; and
iv. other measures for harvest and management of Fish;
m. other matters that could significantly affect harvesting under a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right;
n. the management of fisheries outside the Domestic Fishing Area that could
significantly affect harvesting under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right;
o. the management, conservation and protection of Fish, Fish habitat and Aquatic
Plants in the Domestic Fishing Area; and
p. any other matters agreed to by Canada and the Maa‑nulth First
Nations.
10.4.9
On receipt of an Annual Fishing Plan, the Joint Fisheries
Committee and an advisory structure will:
a. review and, as appropriate, discuss the Annual Fishing Plan with one another,
and make recommendations to the Minister and the Maa‑nulth First Nations in respect of
provisions that the Minister should put in a Maa‑nulth Harvest Document;
b. discuss the coordination of harvesting under the Maa‑nulth First Nation
Fishing Rights with other fisheries; and
c. provide each other with any recommendations they make to the
Minister.
10.4.10
For purposes of 10.4.8 and 10.4.9, an "advisory structure" is
the advisory structure, if any, established in accordance with 23.10.4.
10.4.11
The Joint Fisheries Committee will conduct a post-season
review of the harvesting under each Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right and other matters
contemplated by 10.4.1, and may make recommendations to the Parties.
10.4.12
The Joint Fisheries Committee will:
a. establish its own procedures; and
b. seek to operate on a consensus basis.
10.4.13
The Parties will include the procedures of the Joint
Fisheries Committee in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines.
10.4.14
Where all the members of the Joint Fisheries Committee do not
agree on a recommendation contemplated by this Chapter, each of Canada and the Maa‑nulth
First Nations may submit written recommendations to the Minister.
10.4.15
A reference in this Chapter to a Joint Fisheries Committee
recommendation includes a recommendation made to the Minister contemplated by
10.4.14.
10.4.16
Where the Maa‑nulth First Nations believe that a
recommendation made in accordance with 10.4.8 or 10.4.14 has not been acted upon by Canada,
the Maa‑nulth First Nations may discuss it at a meeting of the Joint Fisheries Committee.
Following a discussion at the Joint Fisheries Committee, where the Maa‑nulth First Nations
still believe a recommendation made in accordance with 10.4.8 or 10.4.14 has not been acted
upon by Canada, the Maa‑nulth First Nations may, in writing, request the Minister to respond
and the Minister will respond in writing.
Regional First Nations Fisheries Management Advisory
Process
10.4.17
Where a regional fisheries committee is proposed or
established for aboriginal fisheries in an area that includes all or part of the Domestic
Fishing Area and that committee has functions and activities similar to the Joint Fisheries
Committee, Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will determine which functions and
activities of the Joint Fisheries Committee can be more effectively undertaken by a regional
fisheries committee and discuss the mechanism for the Maa‑nulth First Nations' participation
in the regional fisheries committee.
10.4.18
Either Canada or the Maa‑nulth First Nations may request that
any function or activity of the Joint Fisheries Committee be undertaken by the regional
fisheries committee.
10.4.19
In considering a request made in accordance with 10.4.18, in
respect of those functions and activities of the Joint Fisheries Committee undertaken in
accordance with 10.4.2 no Party will unreasonably withhold consent to the
request.
10.4.20
Where Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations agree, other
functions and activities undertaken in accordance with 10.4.8 may be undertaken by a
regional fisheries committee.
10.4.21
Where Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations agree that a
function or activity of the Joint Fisheries Committee will be undertaken by a regional
fisheries committee:
a. the Parties will update the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines, as
required, to reflect the agreement; and
b. a reference in this Agreement to the Joint Fisheries Committee will be read as
a reference to the regional fisheries committee for that function or activity.
10.4.22
Where a regional fisheries committee undertakes a function or
activity of the Joint Fisheries Committee either Canada or the Maa‑nulth First Nations may
request that a function or activity that is not effectively addressed or efficiently
coordinated by the regional fisheries committee be resumed by the Joint Fisheries
Committee.
10.4.23
Where Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations agree that a
function or activity will be resumed by the Joint Fisheries Committee, the Parties will
update the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines, as required, to reflect the
change.
10.4.24
In considering a request made in accordance with 10.4.22, in
respect of those functions or activities of the regional fisheries committee undertaken in
accordance with 10.4.17 no Party will unreasonably withhold consent to the
request.
10.4.25
If a regional fisheries committee contemplated by 10.4.17 is
terminated and not replaced by another process, the Joint Fisheries Committee, as necessary,
will resume its original functions or activities.
10.4.26
Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will, from time to
time, review and discuss the effectiveness of the Joint Fisheries Committee and regional
fisheries committee.
Public Fisheries Management Advisory Processes
10.4.27
Where Canada or British Columbia has or establishes a public
fisheries management advisory process that encompasses all or a portion of the Domestic
Fishing Area, or is for a species or stock of Fish or Aquatic Plants in the Pacific Region,
the Maa‑nulth First Nations may participate in that process on the same basis as other
aboriginal groups. For greater certainty, the public fisheries management advisory processes
contemplated by this paragraph do not include international fisheries advisory processes and
the design, establishment and termination of the public fisheries management advisory
processes is at the discretion of the Minister.
10.4.28
Where in accordance with 10.4.27, Canada or British Columbia
proposes to establish a public fisheries management advisory process for the west coast of
Vancouver Island, Canada or British Columbia will Consult with the Maa‑nulth First Nations
in developing that public fisheries management advisory process.
Annual Fishing Plans
10.4.29
Each year, the Maa‑nulth First Nations will develop an Annual
Fishing Plan in respect of allocated and unallocated species of Fish and Aquatic Plants.
That plan will set out the preferences of the Maa‑nulth First Nations, in respect of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Rights, as to:
a. what stocks and species would be harvested and, where appropriate, in what
amounts;
b. the description of Fish and Aquatic Plants to be harvested;
c. the location and timing of harvest;
d. the method of harvest, including the size, type, identification, marking, and
quantity of gear to be used and the manner in which it may be used;
e. the monitoring of harvest, including notification, catch monitoring,
identification and reporting of harvest;
f. the transportation of harvested Fish and Aquatic Plants;
g. enforcement measures;
h. the provisions of a Maa‑nulth Harvest Document; and
i. other matters.
Maa‑nulth Harvest Document
10.4.30
Each year, the Minister will issue one or more Maa‑nulth
Harvest Documents to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in respect of the Maa‑nulth First Nation
Fishing Rights. Each Maa‑nulth Harvest Document will be consistent with this
Agreement.
10.4.31
Where the Minister issues a Maa‑nulth Harvest Document, the
Minister will take into account:
a. conservation measures and the availability of fisheries
resources;
b. the recommendations that the Minister has received in a timely manner from the
Joint Fisheries Committee on the provisions of Maa‑nulth Harvest Documents;
c. utilization of the fisheries resources;
d. efficient and effective harvesting of fisheries resources;
e. requirements for integration and efficient management of all
resources;
f. accepted scientific procedures for management for fisheries resources;
and
g. any other matters that the Minister considers relevant.
10.4.32
Harvesting under a Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right will
be conducted in accordance with the provisions of a Maa‑nulth Harvest
Document.
10.4.33
The Maa‑nulth First Nations are not required by Canada or
British Columbia to pay any fee or charge for a Maa‑nulth Harvest Document.
10.4.34
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will make the applicable
Maa‑nulth Harvest Documents available for inspection by its Maa‑nulth‑aht and other
individuals designated to harvest under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Right.
10.4.35
The Minister will provide written reasons to the Maa‑nulth
First Nations, the Joint Fisheries Committee and the advisory structure if the Maa‑nulth
Harvest Document has significant differences from the licence provisions recommended by the
Joint Fisheries Committee or the advisory structure.
10.4.36
Where the Minister amends a Maa‑nulth Harvest Document, the
Minister will provide notice to the Maa‑nulth First Nations, the Joint Fisheries Committee
and an advisory structure where harvesting of Fish and Aquatic Plants may occur in a
National Park or a National Marine Conservation Area and, where practicable, discuss the
amendment and reasons in advance.
10.4.37
If special circumstances make it impracticable to discuss an
amendment in accordance with 10.4.36 with the Maa‑nulth First Nations, the Joint Fisheries
Committee or an advisory structure, the Minister:
a. may make the decision or take the action that the Minister considers
necessary, without receiving recommendations from the advisory structure or Joint Fisheries
Committee; and
b. will notify the Maa‑nulth First Nations, the Joint Fisheries Committee and an
advisory structure of the special circumstances and the decision made or action
taken.
10.4.38
For purposes of 10.4.35, 10.4.36 and 10.4.37 an "advisory
structure" is an advisory structure, if any, established in accordance with
23.10.4
Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines
10.4.39
The Parties will prepare the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational
Guidelines that set out the operational principles, procedures, and guidelines regarding the
implementation of the provisions of this Chapter. The Parties will update and maintain the
Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines as required.
10.4.40
The Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines describe when
and how an adjustment is made to a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation to account for harvests that
exceed or fail to meet a Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation in a year.
10.4.41
Any adjustment in accordance with 10.4.40 will take into
account the actions of the Minister and the Maa‑nulth First Nations in the conduct of the
fishery in question.
10.4.42
The Minister and the Maa‑nulth First Nations will endeavour
to minimize any overages and underages in each year and to minimize any overages and
underages in successive years.
10.5.0  STEWARDSHIP AND ENHANCEMENT
10.5.1
The Maa‑nulth First Nations may conduct, with the approval of
the Minister and in accordance with Federal Law or Provincial Law, Enhancement Initiatives
and Stewardship Activities in the Domestic Fishing Area.
10.5.2
Canada and the Maa‑nulth First Nations may negotiate
agreements concerning the Maa‑nulth First Nations' activities related to Enhancement
Initiatives and Stewardship Activities.
10.5.3
The Parties may enter into agreements concerning the harvest
of surpluses of a species of salmon in the terminal area that result from an approved
Enhancement Initiative in which the Maa‑nulth First Nations invested. One of the factors
that the Minister will take into account concerning the agreement is the amount of the
investment that the Maa‑nulth First Nations have made in the approved enhancement facility.
An enhancement facility is a fish hatchery (including an incubation box) or other facility
that the Parties agree is an enhancement facility.
SCHEDULE 1 — CHINOOK SALMON ALLOCATION
1. In this Schedule:
"Ocean Chinook Salmon"
means chinook salmon taken into account in the
calculation of Ocean Chinook Salmon Canadian Total Allowable Catch;
"Ocean Chinook Salmon Canadian Total Allowable Catch"
means the
amount established by the Minister as available for harvest in Canadian waters off the west
coast of Vancouver Island by aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of chinook
salmon that are predominantly of non-west coast of Vancouver Island stocks;
and
"Terminal Chinook Salmon"
means chinook salmon in those parts of
Areas 23, 26, 123 and 126 as defined in the
Pacific Fishery Management Area
Regulations, 2007
that are landward of a line that is one nautical mile seaward
from the surfline, but does not include Ocean Chinook Salmon.
Allocation
2. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for chinook salmon is:
a. an amount of Ocean Chinook Salmon equal to 1,875 pieces plus 1.78% of the
Ocean Chinook Salmon Canadian Total Allowable Catch; and
b. an amount of Terminal Chinook Salmon equal to:
i. 200 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chinook Salmon is
critical;
ii. 1,500 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chinook Salmon is
low;
iii. 2,000 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chinook Salmon is moderate;
and
iv. 2,600 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chinook Salmon is
abundant.
3. For the purpose of paragraph 2, the terms "critical", "low", "moderate" and
"abundant" are determined by the Minister as described in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries
Operational Guidelines.
4. Where a Maa‑nulth First Nation harvests chinook salmon under its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right at a time and in a location where a harvest of:
a. Ocean Chinook Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those chinook salmon are
counted as Ocean Chinook Salmon; and
b. Terminal Chinook Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those chinook salmon
are counted as Terminal Chinook Salmon.
5. Within the Domestic Fishing Area, the time and location for the harvest
of:
a. Ocean Chinook Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Rights;
and
b. Terminal Chinook Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights;
will be consistent with the description in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational
Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 2 — CHUM SALMON ALLOCATION
1. In this Schedule:
"Terminal Chum Salmon"
means chum salmon in those parts of Areas 23,
26, 123 and 126 as defined in the
Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations,
2007
that are landward of a line that is one nautical mile seaward from the
surfline.
Allocation
2. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for chum salmon is:
a. 3,000 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chum Salmon is
critical;
b. 6,500 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chum Salmon is low;
c. 10,000 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chum Salmon is
moderate;
d. 14,000 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chum Salmon is abundant;
and
e. 17,500 pieces, when the return of Terminal Chum Salmon is very
abundant.
3. For purposes of paragraph 2, the terms "critical", "low", "moderate",
"abundant" and "very abundant" are determined by the Minister as described in the Maa‑nulth
Fisheries Operational Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 3 — COHO SALMON ALLOCATION
1. In this Schedule:
"Ocean Coho Salmon"
means coho salmon harvested in those parts of
Areas 123 and 126 as defined in the
Pacific Fisheries Management Area Regulations,
2007
seaward of a line that is one nautical mile seaward from the surfline;
and
"Terminal Coho Salmon"
means coho salmon in those parts of Areas 23,
26, 123 and 126 as defined in the
Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations,
2007
that are landward of a line that is one nautical mile seaward from the
surfline, but does not include Ocean Coho Salmon.
Allocations
2. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for coho salmon is:
a. an amount of Ocean Coho Salmon equal to 7,000 pieces; and
b. an amount of Terminal Coho Salmon equal to,
i. 1,200 pieces, when the return of Terminal Coho Salmon is
critical;
ii. 1,850 pieces, when the return of Terminal Coho Salmon is low;
iii. 3,050 pieces, when the return of Terminal Coho Salmon is moderate;
and
iv. 3,630 pieces, when the return of Terminal Coho Salmon is
abundant.
3. For purposes of paragraph 2, the terms "critical", "low", "moderate" and
"abundant" are determined by the Minister as described in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries
Operational Guidelines.
4. Where a Maa‑nulth First Nation harvests coho salmon under its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Fishing Right at a time and in a location where a harvest of:
a. Ocean Coho Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those coho salmon are counted
as Ocean Coho Salmon; and
b. Terminal Coho Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those coho salmon are
counted as Terminal Coho Salmon.
5. Within the Domestic Fishing Area, the time and location for the harvest
of:
a. Ocean Coho Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Rights;
and
b. Terminal Coho Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights;
will be consistent with the description in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational
Guidelines.
6. During the ten year period immediately following the Effective Date, Canada
will gather information on coho salmon that return to spawn in the Malksope
River.
7. At the end of the ten year period referred to in paragraph 6, the Parties will
review and discuss the information referred to in paragraph 6 to determine whether the
information is representative of coho salmon stocks in Area 26.
8. In making the determination in accordance with paragraph 7, the Parties will
take into account:
a. the information referred to in paragraph 6;
b. the information about coho salmon in streams in Area 26, other than the
Malksope River; and
c. other relevant information.
9. If the Parties determine that the information referred to in paragraph 6 is
representative of coho salmon stocks in Area 26, upon the request of any Party, the Parties
will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on amendments to paragraph 2 that result in an
average allocation of 4,300 pieces, based on the information referred to in paragraph
6.
10. The Parties may request that the Joint Fisheries Committee consider and
provide recommendations regarding the matters described in paragraphs 8 and 9.
SCHEDULE 4 — PINK SALMON ALLOCATION
Allocation
1. In the first two year period following the Effective Date, and in each
subsequent two year period, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for pink salmon is 7,250
pieces.
2. The time, location and amount of harvests of west coast of Vancouver Island
pink salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Rights will be consistent with the
description in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5 — SOCKEYE SALMON ALLOCATION
1. In this Schedule:
"Fraser River Sockeye Salmon Canadian Total Allowable Catch"
means
the amount established by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in
Canadian waters by aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of sockeye salmon that
originate in the Fraser River watershed;
"Henderson Lake Sockeye Total Allowable Catch"
means the amount
established by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in Canadian
waters by aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of sockeye salmon that originate
in the Henderson Lake watershed;
"Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch"
means the amount
established by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in Canadian
waters by aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of sockeye salmon that originate
in the Somass River watershed;
"Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon"
means sockeye salmon that
originate in the Jensen River and Lake watershed and are present in the area landward of a
line one nautical mile seaward from the mouth of the Jensen River; and
"Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon"
means sockeye salmon that
originate in the Power River and Lake watershed and are present in the area landward of a
line one nautical mile seaward from the mouth of the Power River.
Allocation
2. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for sockeye salmon is:
a. an amount of Somass sockeye salmon equal to:
i. when the Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch is 50,000 or less, 20%
of the Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch;
ii. when the Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch is 50,000 and less
than or equal to 85,000, then 10,000 plus 10% of that portion of the Somass Sockeye Canadian
Total Allowable Catch that is greater than 50,000 and less than or equal to
85,000;
iii. when the Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch is 85,000 and less
than or equal to 412,421, then 13,500 plus 2.87% of that portion of the Somass Sockeye
Canadian Total Allowable Catch that is greater than 85,000 and less than or equal to
412,421; and
iv. when the Somass Sockeye Canadian Total Allowable Catch is greater than
412,421, then 22,886;
b. an amount of Fraser River sockeye salmon equal to 0.13366% of the Fraser River
Sockeye Salmon Canadian Total Allowable Catch;
c. an amount of Henderson Lake sockeye salmon equal to 26.85% of the Henderson
Lake Total Allowable Catch up to a maximum of 17,055 pieces;
d. an amount of Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon equal to 50% of the amount of
Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon that the Minister determines is available for harvest;
and
e. an amount of Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon equal to 50% of the amount of
Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon that the Minister determines is available for
harvest.
3. Where a Maa‑nulth First Nation harvests sockeye salmon under its Maa‑nulth
First Nation Fishing Right at a time and in a location where a harvest of:
a. Somass Sockeye Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those sockeye salmon are
counted as Somass Sockeye Salmon;
b. Fraser River Sockeye Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those sockeye
salmon are counted as Fraser River Sockeye Salmon;
c. Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those
sockeye salmon are counted as Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon;
d. Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon is authorized by the Minister, those
sockeye salmon are counted as Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon; and
e. Henderson Lake sockeye salmon is authorized by the Minister, those sockeye
salmon are counted as Henderson Lake sockeye salmon.
4. Within the Domestic Fishing Area, the time and location for the harvest
of:
a. Somass Sockeye Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights;
b. Fraser River Sockeye Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights;
c. Terminal Jensen Lake Sockeye Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights;
d. Terminal Power Lake Sockeye Salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights; and
e. Henderson Lake sockeye salmon under the Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Rights,
will be consistent with the description in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational
Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 6 — NON-SALMON ALLOCATIONS
General
1. The time and location for harvest of non-salmon under the Maa‑nulth First
Nation Fishing Rights will be consistent with the description in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries
Operational Guidelines.
Herring Allocation
2. Each year the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for whole herring is 90 short tons or
a corresponding amount of herring spawn on kelp or herring spawn on boughs in accordance
with the conversion rates for whole herring to herring spawn on kelp or herring spawn on
bough as described in the Maa‑nulth Fisheries Operational Guidelines.
Halibut Allocation
3. In paragraph 4:
"Halibut Canadian Total Allowable Catch"
means the amount established
by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in Canadian waters by
aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of Pacific halibut.
4. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for halibut is 26,000 pounds (net
weight, dressed, head off) plus 0.39% of the Halibut Canadian Total Allowable Catch (net
weight, dressed, head off).
Groundfish and Rockfish Allocations
5. In paragraph 6:
"
Rockfish Commercial Total Allowable Catch
" means the
amount, established by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in
Canadian waters by commercial fisheries described as the outside rockfish category ZN Total
Allowable Catch for west coast of Vancouver Island Yelloweye, Quillback, Copper, China and
Tiger.
6. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation of Rockfish is 11,250 pounds of whole
fish, plus 2.46% of the Rockfish Commercial Total Allowable Catch.
7. Each year, the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation of Groundfish is 13,000 pounds of
whole fish.
Sablefish Allocation
8. In paragraph 9:
"Sablefish Canadian Total Allowable Catch"
means the amount
established by the Minister that is calculated to be available for the harvest in Canadian
waters by aboriginal, commercial and recreational fisheries of Pacific
sablefish.
9. Each year the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation for sablefish is 0.082% of the
Sablefish Canadian Total Allowable Catch.
SCHEDULE 7 — INTER-TIDAL BIVALVE ALLOCATION
1. Each year the Maa‑nulth Fish Allocation of Inter-tidal Bivalves is the
harvestable surplus from the beaches between the high water mark and the low water mark in
the area described as "Inter-tidal Bivalve Harvest Areas" in:
a. Part 1, Plan 1 of Appendix P for Toquart Bay;
b. Part 1, Plan 2 of Appendix P for Effingham Inlet;
c. Part 1, Plan 3 of Appendix P for Tzartus Island;
d. Part 1, Plan 4 of Appendix P for Sarita River;
e. Part 1, Plan 5 of Appendix P for Big Bunsby;
f. Part 1, Plan 6 of Appendix P for Kauwinch River;
g.	Part 1, Plan 7 of Appendix P for Artlish River; and
h. Part 1, Plan 8 of Appendix P for Amai Inlet.
SCHEDULE 8 — COMMERCIAL FISHING LICENCES
Salmon
1. One Category A licence for Area D gill net issued under the
Pacific
Fishery Regulations, 1993
with a maximum vessel length of 11.25
metres.
2. One Category A licence for Area G troll issued under the
Pacific
Fishery Regulations, 1993
with a maximum vessel length of 14.74
metres.
3. One Category A licence for Area G troll issued under the
Pacific
Fishery Regulations, 1993
with a maximum vessel length of 11.58
metres.
Halibut
4. One Category L licence issued under the
Pacific Fishery Regulations,
1993
with a maximum vessel length of 21.23 metres and an amount equivalent to the
quota of 0.147686 percent of the Canadian commercial total allowable catch for Pacific
halibut.
5. One Category L licence issued under the
Pacific Fishery Regulations,
1993
with a maximum vessel length of 20.35 metres and an amount equivalent to the
quota of 0.097124 percent of the Canadian commercial total allowable catch for Pacific
halibut.
6. One Category L licence issued under the
Pacific Fishery Regulations,
1993
with a maximum vessel length of 20.48 metres and an amount equivalent to the
quota of 0.1058376 percent of the Canadian commercial total allowable catch for Pacific
halibut.
Rockfish
7. One Category ZN licence for the outside area issued under the
Pacific
Fishery Regulations, 1993
with a maximum vessel length of 12.90 metres and an
amount equivalent to the quota of 1/191
st
of the Rockfish Canadian
commercial total allowable catch for the Category ZN licences for the outside area
fishery.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
