View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 6 — ROLE OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATIONS WITHIN MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION
AREAS
6.1.0  GENERAL
6.1.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation has a role related to economic
activities, governance activities and cultural activities within its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Area in accordance with the specific provisions of this Agreement identified in this
Chapter.
6.2.0  ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES
6.2.1
Nothing in this Agreement precludes each Maa‑nulth First Nation
from participating in or benefiting from provincial benefits-sharing programs in accordance
with the general criteria established for those programs from time to time.
6.2.2
Nothing in this Agreement precludes each Maa‑nulth First Nation
from entering into arrangements for economic opportunities with third parties, providing
those arrangements are consistent with this Agreement.
6.2.3
Resource revenue payments are provided to each Maa‑nulth First
Nation by Canada and British Columbia in accordance with 17.1.3.
6.2.4
Commercial fishing opportunities are provided to the Maa‑nulth
First Nations through licences issued to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with the
Maa‑nulth Harvest Agreement negotiated in accordance with 10.2.1.
6.2.5
The opportunity to add land to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 2.10.0.
6.2.6
The opportunity to apply for commercial recreation tenures on
provincial Crown land is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
2.13.0.
6.2.7
The opportunity to apply for shellfish aquaculture tenures is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 10.2.10.
6.3.0  GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES
6.3.1
Nothing in this Agreement precludes any Maa‑nulth First Nation
from participating in processes or institutions, including processes or institutions that
may address matters of shared decision-making, or benefits from future provincial programs,
policies or initiatives of general application to First Nations as British Columbia develops
a new relationship with First Nations.
6.3.2
The opportunity to participate in fisheries related management
activities in the Domestic Fishing Area through the Joint Fisheries Committee is provided to
the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with 10.4.3 and 10.4.8.
6.3.3
The opportunity to participate in any regional fisheries
committee with respect to an area that includes all or part of the Domestic Fishing Area is
provided to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with 10.4.17.
6.3.4
The opportunity to participate in any public fisheries
management advisory process that encompasses all or a portion of the Domestic Fishing Area
is provided to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with 10.4.27.
6.3.5
The opportunity to be Consulted on the proposed establishment
of a public fisheries management advisory process for the west coast of Vancouver Island is
provided to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with 10.4.28.
6.3.6
The opportunity to be Consulted by Canada on a process for
participants to enter a new emerging commercial fishery off the west coast of Vancouver
Island and how the fishery should be allocated among participants is provided to the
Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance with 10.2.6.
6.3.7
The opportunity to participate in any public Wildlife advisory
committee in respect of the Wildlife Harvest Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation
in accordance with 11.10.1.
6.3.8
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with British Columbia
on a process to evaluate uses and Dispositions of provincial Crown land that may impact a
Maa‑nulth First Nation's reasonable opportunity to harvest Wildlife is provided to that
Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 11.1.6.
6.3.9
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with British Columbia
on a process to evaluate uses and Dispositions of provincial Crown land that may impact a
Maa‑nulth First Nation's reasonable opportunity to harvest Migratory Birds is provided to
that Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 12.1.6.
6.3.10
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with British
Columbia on a process to evaluate uses and Dispositions of provincial Crown land that may
impact a Maa‑nulth First Nation's reasonable opportunity to harvest Fish and Aquatic Plants
is provided to that Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 10.1.11.
6.3.11
The opportunity to be Consulted by Canada and to request
negotiation of an agreement regarding certain matters relating to any National Park or
National Marine Conservation Area wholly or partially within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area
is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 23.10.1 and
23.10.2.
6.3.12
The opportunity to participate in any management or planning
process with respect to any Provincial Protected Area in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 24.5.1.
6.3.13
The opportunity to be Consulted by British Columbia regarding
certain matters relating to the preparation and modification of any management plan for a
Provincial Protected Area wholly or partially within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 24.5.6.
6.3.14
The opportunity to be Consulted by Canada before the
establishment of any National Park or National Marine Conservation Area that is wholly or
partially within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation
in accordance with 23.9.1.
6.3.15
The opportunity to consent or withhold consent to the removal
of a part of a National Park or National Marine Conservation Area that is within its
Maa‑nulth First Nation Area, except where it is a part of Pacific Rim National Park Reserve,
is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 23.9.2.
6.3.16
The opportunity to participate in the design and conduct and
receive the results of studies in relation to enlarging a National Park or National Marine
Conservation Area within its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First
Nation in accordance with 23.9.3.
6.3.17
The opportunity to be Consulted by British Columbia regarding
the creation of any new Provincial Protected Area in its Maa‑nulth First Nation Area is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 24.1.3.
6.3.18
The opportunity to be involved in an Environmental Assessment
in respect of a Federal Project or a Provincial Project located within its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 22.2.1 and 22.3.1,
respectively.
6.3.19
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with British
Columbia that will provide each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government with law-making authority
in relation to the applicable Foreshore Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with 14.5.1.
6.3.20
The opportunity to participate in the applicable Regional
District Board is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
14.2.0.
6.3.21
The ability to make laws in respect of the adoption of
Maa‑nulth First Nation Children residing in British Columbia is provided to each Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government in accordance with 13.15.3.
6.3.22
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with
British Columbia regarding Child Protection Services for Maa‑nulth‑aht who reside in
British Columbia is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
13.16.8a.
6.3.23
The opportunity to negotiate an agreement with
British Columbia regarding the provision of kindergarten to grade 12 education for its
Maa‑nulth‑aht who reside in British Columbia is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with 13.20.5b.
6.4.0  CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
6.4.1
The ability to practice the Nuu‑chah‑nulth culture and to use
the Nuu‑chah‑nulth language in a manner consistent with this Agreement is provided to
Maa‑nulth‑aht in accordance with the right described in 21.1.1.
6.4.2
The ability to exercise its Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable
Resource Harvesting Right in its Renewable Resource Harvesting Area is provided to the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 23.1.1.
6.4.3
The ability to exercise its right to Trade and Barter renewable
resources harvested under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Renewable Resource Harvesting Right,
among themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident in British Columbia, is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 23.2.1.
6.4.4
The ability to have access to a National Park or National
Marine Conservation Area that is wholly or partially within the Maa‑nulth First Nation
Areas, without a fee being charged is provided to Maa‑nulth‑aht in accordance with
23.9.4.
6.4.5
The opportunity to provide names for key geographic features in
the Maa‑nulth First Nation Areas is provided to the Maa‑nulth First Nations in accordance
with 20.7.0.
6.4.6
The ability to exercise its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Gather Plants in Provincial Protected Areas wholly or partially within its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
24.6.1.
6.4.7
The ability to exercise its right to Trade and Barter Plants,
and the boughs, burls and roots of Timber gathered under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Gather Plants, among themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident in
British Columbia, is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
24.6.11.
6.4.8
The ability to exercise its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing
Right in its Domestic Fishing Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance
with 10.1.1.
6.4.9
The ability to exercise its right to Trade and Barter Fish and
Aquatic Plants harvested under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Fishing Right, among themselves or
with other aboriginal people of Canada, is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with 10.1.4.
6.4.10
The ability to exercise its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Harvest Wildlife in the Wildlife Harvest Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in
accordance with 11.1.1.
6.4.11
The ability to exercise its right to Trade and Barter
Wildlife, Wildlife parts, including meats and furs, harvested under its Maa‑nulth First
Nation Right to Harvest Wildlife, among themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada
resident in British Columbia, is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
11.12.0.
6.4.12
The ability to exercise its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to
Harvest Migratory Birds in the Migratory Birds Harvest Area is provided to each Maa‑nulth
First Nation in accordance with 12.1.1.
6.4.13
The ability to exercise its right to Trade and Barter
Migratory Birds under its Maa‑nulth First Nation Right to Harvest Migratory Birds, among
themselves or with other aboriginal people of Canada resident in British Columbia, is
provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with 12.2.1.
6.4.14
The opportunity to enter into an agreement with British
Columbia regarding the harvest of Monumental Cedar and Cypress for Cultural Purposes on
provincial Crown land is provided to each Maa‑nulth First Nation in accordance with
21.3.0.
6.4.15
The opportunity for Toquaht Nation to negotiate an agreement
regarding the Stopper Islands with British Columbia concerning measures to protect cultural,
recreational and environmental values and Toquaht Nation's participation in the management
planning of those islands, is provided to Toquaht Nation in accordance with
21.4.1.
6.4.16
The opportunity for Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations to negotiate an
agreement regarding Diana Island with British Columbia concerning measures to protect
cultural, recreational and environmental values and Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations' participation
in the management planning of that island, is provided to Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations in
accordance with 21.5.1.
6.4.17
The commitment of British Columbia to establish Thunderbird's
Nest (
T'iitsk'in Paawats
) Protected Area and the opportunity for Uchucklesaht
Tribe to negotiate and attempt to reach agreement with British Columbia regarding
arrangements for the participation of Uchucklesaht Tribe in the management planning of
Thunderbird's Nest (
T'iitsk'in Paawats
) Protected Area is provided to
Uchucklesaht Tribe in accordance with 24.3.0 and 24.1.5 respectively.
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
