View Complete Statute
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER								43
Schedule
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement
CHAPTER 1 — GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1.0  NATURE OF AGREEMENT
1.1.1
This Agreement is a treaty and a land claims agreement within
the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
.
1.1.2
This Agreement is binding on the Parties and on all
persons.
1.1.3
The Parties and all persons are entitled to rely on this
Agreement.
1.1.4
Canada will recommend to Parliament that Federal Settlement
Legislation provides that this Agreement is approved, given effect, declared valid and has
the force of law.
1.1.5
British Columbia will recommend to the Legislature that
Provincial Settlement Legislation provides that this Agreement is approved, given effect,
declared valid and has the force of law.
1.1.6
Ratification of this Agreement by the Parties in accordance
with Chapter 28 Ratification is a condition precedent to the validity of this Agreement and,
unless so ratified, this Agreement is of no force or effect.
1.2.0  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
1.2.1
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation represents and warrants to Canada
and British Columbia that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement, it
represents and has the authority to enter into on behalf of, and enters into this Agreement
on behalf of, any and all of those individuals who collectively comprise that Maa‑nulth
First Nation and who have or may exercise any aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title,
or may make any claims to those rights.
1.2.2
Canada represents and warrants to each Maa‑nulth First Nation
that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement, it has the authority to enter
into this Agreement within its authorities.
1.2.3
British Columbia represents and warrants to each Maa‑nulth
First Nation that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement, it has the
authority to enter into this Agreement within its authorities.
1.3.0  CONSTITUTION OF CANADA
1.3.1
This Agreement does not alter the Constitution of Canada,
including:
a. the distribution of powers between Canada and British Columbia;
b. the identity of Maa‑nulth First Nations as aboriginal people of Canada within
the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1982
; and
c. sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
.
1.3.2
The
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
applies to each Maa‑nulth First Nation Government in respect of all matters within its
authority.
1.4.0  CHARACTER OF MAA‑NULTH FIRST NATION LANDS AND OTHER MAA‑NULTH
FIRST NATION LANDS
1.4.1
There are no "Lands reserved for the Indians" within the
meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1867
for any Maa‑nulth First Nation and
there are no "reserves" as defined in the
Indian Act
for any Maa‑nulth
First Nation and, for greater certainty, Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands and Other Maa‑nulth
First Nation Lands are not "Lands reserved for the Indians" within the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1867
, and are not "reserves" as defined in the
Indian Act
.
1.5.0  APPLICATION OF FEDERAL LAW AND PROVINCIAL LAW
1.5.1
Federal Law and Provincial Law apply to the Maa‑nulth First
Nations, Maa‑nulth‑aht, Maa‑nulth First Nation Citizens, Maa‑nulth First Nation Public
Institutions, Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporations, Maa‑nulth First Nation Governments,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands and Other Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands.
1.6.0  APPLICATION OF THE
INDIAN ACT
1.6.1
Subject to Chapter 15
Indian Act
Transition
and 19.5.0, the
Indian Act
has no application to any Maa‑nulth First
Nation, Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, Maa‑nulth First Nation Public Institution,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation and Maa‑nulth‑aht as of the Effective Date, except for
the purpose of determining whether an individual is an "Indian".
1.7.0  INTERNATIONAL LEGAL OBLIGATIONS
1.7.1
After the Effective Date, before consenting to be bound by a
new International Treaty which would give rise to a new International Legal Obligation that
may adversely affect a right of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government under this Agreement,
Canada will Consult with that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government in respect of the
International Treaty either separately or through a forum that Canada determines is
appropriate.
1.7.2
Where Canada informs a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government that
it considers that a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law or exercise of power of that Maa‑nulth First
Nation Government causes Canada to be unable to perform an International Legal Obligation,
that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government and Canada will discuss remedial measures to enable
Canada to perform the International Legal Obligation. Subject to 1.7.3, the Maa‑nulth First
Nation Government will remedy the law or other exercise of power to the extent necessary to
enable Canada to perform the International Legal Obligation.
1.7.3
Subject to 1.7.5, where Canada and a Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government disagree over whether a Maa‑nulth First Nation Law or other exercise of power of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government causes Canada to be unable to perform an
International Legal Obligation, the dispute will be resolved in accordance with the
provisions in Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution, and if the dispute goes to arbitration,
and:
a. if the arbitrator, having taken into account all relevant considerations,
including any reservations and exceptions taken by Canada, determines that the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Law or other exercise of power of the Maa‑nulth First Nation Government does
not cause Canada to be unable to perform the International Legal Obligation, or that the
remedial measures are sufficient to enable Canada to perform the International Legal
Obligation, Canada will not take any further action for this reason aimed at changing the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Law or other exercise of power; or
b. if the arbitrator, having taken into account all relevant considerations,
including any reservations and exceptions available to Canada, determines that the Maa‑nulth
First Nation Law or other exercise of power of that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government causes
Canada to be unable to perform the International Legal Obligation, or that the remedial
measures are insufficient to enable Canada to perform the International Legal Obligation the
Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will remedy the law or other exercise of power to the
extent necessary to enable Canada to perform the International Legal
Obligation.
1.7.4
Canada will Consult the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government in respect of the development of positions taken by Canada before an
International Tribunal where its Maa‑nulth First Nation Law or other exercise of power of
that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government has given rise to an issue concerning the performance
of an International Legal Obligation of Canada. Canada's positions before the International
Tribunal will take into account the commitment of the Parties to the integrity of this
Agreement.
1.7.5
If there is a finding of an International Tribunal of
non-performance of an International Legal Obligation of Canada attributable to a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Law or other exercise of power of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, that
Maa‑nulth First Nation Government will, at the request of Canada, remedy the law or other
exercise of power to enable Canada to perform the International Legal Obligation, unless the
law or action is in accordance with this Agreement and equivalent to a relevant Federal Law
or Provincial Law, as applicable, consistent with the compliance with Canada or British
Columbia in respect of that International Legal Obligation.
1.8.0  RELATIONSHIP OF LAWS
1.8.1
This Agreement prevails to the extent of an inconsistency or a
Conflict with Federal Law or Provincial Law.
1.8.2
Federal Settlement Legislation prevails over other Federal Law
to the extent of a Conflict and Provincial Settlement Legislation prevails over other
Provincial Law to the extent of a Conflict.
1.8.3
Any licence, permit or other authorization to be issued by
Canada or British Columbia as a result of this Agreement will be issued under Federal Law or
Provincial Law, as the case may be, and will not be part of this Agreement.
1.8.4
This Agreement prevails to the extent of an inconsistency or
Conflict with any provision of a licence, permit or other authorization issued by Canada or
British Columbia as a result of this Agreement.
1.8.5
Notwithstanding any other rule of priority in this Agreement,
Federal Law or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict with Maa‑nulth First
Nation Law that has an incidental impact on any federal or provincial legislative
jurisdiction for which a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government:
a. does not have any law-making authority; or
b. does have law-making authority but in respect of which Federal Law or
Provincial Law prevails in the event of a Conflict.
1.8.6
Notwithstanding any other rule of priority in this Agreement,
Federal Law or Provincial Law prevails to the extent of a Conflict with Maa‑nulth First
Nation Law that has a double aspect with any federal or provincial legislative jurisdiction
for which a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government:
a. does not have any law-making authority; or
b. does have law-making authority but in respect of which Federal Law or
Provincial Law prevails in the event of a Conflict.
1.8.7
Notwithstanding any other rule of priority in this Agreement,
Federal Law in relation to peace, order and good government, criminal law, human rights, the
protection of the health and safety of all Canadians, or other matters of overriding
national importance, prevails to the extent of a Conflict with Maa‑nulth First Nation
Law.
1.8.8
Canada will recommend to Parliament that Federal Settlement
Legislation include a provision that, to the extent that a Provincial Law does not apply of
its own force to a Maa‑nulth First Nation, Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, Maa‑nulth
First Nation Public Institution, Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation, Maa‑nulth‑aht,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Citizen, Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands or Other Maa‑nulth First Nation
Lands, that Provincial Law will, subject to the Federal Settlement Legislation and any other
Act of Parliament, apply in accordance with this Agreement to that Maa‑nulth First Nation,
Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, Maa‑nulth First Nation Public Institution, Maa‑nulth
First Nation Corporation, Maa‑nulth‑aht, Maa‑nulth First Nation Citizen, Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands or Other Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands, as the case may be.
1.8.9
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, Maa‑nulth First
Nation Law does not apply to Canada or British Columbia.
1.8.10
A Maa‑nulth First Nation Law that is inconsistent or in
Conflict with this Agreement is of no force or effect to the extent of the inconsistency or
Conflict.
1.8.11
For greater certainty, the law-making authority of a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Government does not include criminal law, criminal procedure, Intellectual
Property, official languages of Canada, aeronautics, navigation and shipping or labour
relations and working conditions.
1.9.0  OTHER RIGHTS, BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS
1.9.1
Maa‑nulth First Nation Citizens and Maa‑nulth‑aht who are
Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada continue to be entitled to all of the
rights and benefits of other Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada, applicable
to them from time to time.
1.9.2
Subject to 1.9.3, nothing in this Agreement affects the ability
of a Maa‑nulth First Nation, Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, Maa‑nulth First Nation
Public Institution or Maa‑nulth First Nation Corporation to participate in, or benefit from,
programs established by Canada or British Columbia for aboriginal people, registered Indians
or other Indians, in accordance with criteria established for those programs from time to
time.
1.9.3
Maa‑nulth First Nation Citizens and Maa‑nulth‑aht of a
Maa‑nulth First Nation are eligible to participate in programs or services established by
Canada or British Columbia and to receive programs or services from Canada or British
Columbia, in accordance with criteria established for those programs or services from time
to time, to the extent that the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation has not assumed
responsibility for those programs or services under a Fiscal Financing Agreement or other
funding agreement.
1.10.0  COURT DECISIONS
1.10.1
If a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada
or the Supreme Court of Canada finally determines any provision of this Agreement to be
invalid or unenforceable:
a. the Parties will make best efforts to amend this Agreement to remedy or
replace the provision; and
b. the provision will be severable from this Agreement to the extent of the
invalidity or unenforceability, and the remainder of this Agreement will be construed, to
the extent possible, to give effect to the intent of the Parties.
1.10.2
No Party will challenge, or support a challenge to, the
validity of any provision of this Agreement.
1.10.3
A breach of this Agreement by a Party does not relieve any
Party from its obligations under this Agreement.
1.11.0  CERTAINTY
Full and Final Settlement
1.11.1
This Agreement constitutes the full and final settlement in
respect of the aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, of each Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
Exhaustively Set Out Rights
1.11.2
This Agreement exhaustively sets out the Maa‑nulth First
Nation Section 35 Rights of each Maa‑nulth First Nation, their attributes, the geographic
extent of those rights, and the limitations to those rights, to which the Parties have
agreed, and those rights are:
a. the aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, modified as a result of
this Agreement, of that Maa‑nulth First Nation in and to its Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands
and other lands and resources;
b. the jurisdictions, authorities and rights of its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Government; and
c. the other Maa‑nulth First Nation Section 35 Rights of that Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
Modification
1.11.3
Notwithstanding the common law, as a result of this Agreement
and the Settlement Legislation, the aboriginal rights, including the aboriginal title, of
each Maa‑nulth First Nation, as they existed anywhere before the Effective Date, including
their attributes and geographic extent, are modified, and continue as modified, as set out
in this Agreement.
1.11.4
For greater certainty, the aboriginal title of each Maa‑nulth
First Nation anywhere that it existed before the Effective Date, including its attributes
and geographic extent, is modified and continues as the estates in fee simple to those areas
identified in this Agreement as the Maa‑nulth First Nation Lands and Other Maa‑nulth First
Nation Lands of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
Purpose of Modification
1.11.5
The purpose of the modification referred to in 1.11.3 is to
ensure that as of the Effective Date:
a. each Maa‑nulth First Nation has, and can exercise, its Maa‑nulth First Nation
Section 35 Rights set out in this Agreement, including their attributes, geographic extent,
and the limitations to those rights, to which the Parties have agreed;
b. Canada, British Columbia and all other persons can exercise their rights,
authorities, jurisdictions and privileges in a manner consistent with this Agreement;
and
c. Canada, British Columbia and all other persons do not have any obligations in
respect of any aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, of each Maa‑nulth First Nation
to the extent that those rights, including title, might be in any way other than, or
different in attributes or geographic extent from, the Maa‑nulth First Nation Section 35
Rights of each Maa‑nulth First Nation set out in this Agreement.
Release of Past Claims
1.11.6
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation releases Canada, British Columbia
and all other persons from all claims, demands, actions or proceedings, of whatever kind,
whether known or unknown, that that Maa‑nulth First Nation ever had, now has or may have in
the future, relating to or arising from any act or omission before the Effective Date that
may have affected, interfered with or infringed any aboriginal right, including aboriginal
title, of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
Indemnities
1.11.7
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will indemnify and forever save
harmless Canada or British Columbia, as the case may be, from any and all damages, costs
excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other professional advisors, losses or
liabilities, that Canada or British Columbia, respectively, may suffer or incur in
connection with or as a result of any suit, action, claim, proceeding or demand initiated or
made before or after the Effective Date relating to or arising from:
a. the existence of an aboriginal right, including aboriginal title, of that
Maa‑nulth First Nation that is determined to be other than, or different in attributes or
geographical extent from, the Maa‑nulth First Nation Section 35 Rights of that Maa‑nulth
First Nation set out in this Agreement; or
b. any act or omission by Canada or British Columbia, before the Effective Date,
that may have affected, interfered with or infringed any aboriginal right, including
aboriginal title, of that Maa‑nulth First Nation.
1.11.8
A Party who is the subject of a suit, action, claim,
proceeding or demand that may give rise to a requirement to provide payment to that Party
pursuant to an indemnity under this Agreement:
a. will vigorously defend the suit, action, claim, proceeding or demand;
and
b. will not settle or compromise the suit, action, claim, proceeding or demand
except with the consent of the Party who has granted the indemnity, which consent will not
be arbitrarily or unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Specific Claims
1.11.9
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, nothing
in this Agreement precludes a Maa‑nulth First Nation from pursuing claims in accordance with
Canada's Specific Claims Policy.
1.11.10
For greater certainty, claims referred to in 1.11.9 will not
result in any land being declared to be, or being set aside as "Lands reserved for the
Indians" within the meaning of the
Constitution Act, 1867
for a Maa‑nulth
First Nation, or an Indian Reserve for the use and benefit of a Maa‑nulth First
Nation.
1.12.0  OTHER ABORIGINAL PEOPLES
1.12.1
Nothing in this Agreement affects, recognizes or provides any
rights under section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982
for any aboriginal
people other than Maa‑nulth First Nations.
1.12.2
If a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada
or the Supreme Court of Canada finally determines that any aboriginal people, other than a
Maa‑nulth First Nation, has a right under section 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
that is adversely affected by a provision of this Agreement:
a. that provision will operate and have effect to the extent it does not
adversely affect that right; and
b. if the provision cannot operate and have effect in a way that it does not
adversely affect that right, the Parties will make best efforts to amend this Agreement to
remedy or replace that provision.
1.12.3
If Canada or British Columbia enters into a treaty or a land
claims agreement, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
, with any other aboriginal people and that treaty or land claims agreement
adversely affects Maa‑nulth First Nation Section 35 Rights as set out in this Agreement,
Canada or British Columbia, or both, as the case may be, will provide the applicable
Maa‑nulth First Nation with additional or replacement rights or other appropriate
remedies.
1.12.4
At the request of the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation, the
Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on the provision of those additional
or replacement rights or other appropriate remedies contemplated by 1.12.3.
1.12.5
If the Parties are unable to reach agreement on the provision
of the additional or replacement rights or other appropriate remedies contemplated by
1.12.4, the provision of those additional or replacement rights or remedies will be
determined in accordance with Stage Three of Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution.
1.13.0  PERIODIC REVIEW
1.13.1
The Parties recognize and acknowledge that this Agreement
provides a foundation for an ongoing relationship among the Parties and commit to conducting
a periodic review of this Agreement in accordance with 1.13.2 through 1.13.8.
1.13.2
Sixty days before each Periodic Review Date, each Party will
provide the other Parties with notice if it wishes to discuss a matter contemplated by
1.13.3 and if none of the Parties provide notice the Parties will forego engaging in a
review for that Review Period.
1.13.3
The purpose of the periodic review is to provide an
opportunity for the Parties to meet and discuss:
a. the practicability of the harmonization of each Maa‑nulth First Nation legal
and administrative systems, including law-making authorities that are being exercised by the
applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation Government, in accordance with this Agreement, with those
of British Columbia and Canada;
b. the practicability of processes established by the Parties in accordance with
this Agreement; and
c. other matters in respect of the implementation of the provisions of this
agreement as the Parties may agree in writing.
1.13.4
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the discussions
contemplated by 1.13.3 will take place on the Periodic Review Date and such other dates as
the Parties agree, but will not exceed the applicable Review Period, and within 60 days of
the end of that discussion each Party will provide the other Parties with its response on
any matter discussed during that Review Period.
1.13.5
The periodic review contemplated by 1.13.0 and all discussions
and information relating to the matters of the periodic review are without prejudice to the
respective legal positions of the Parties, unless the Parties otherwise agree, and nothing
made or done in respect of a periodic review, including the discussions or the responses
provided by the Parties, except for the amendments made in accordance with 1.13.7, creates
any legally binding rights or obligations.
1.13.6
Except for the Parties' commitment to meet and provide
responses as described in 1.13.4, neither the periodic review process contemplated by
1.13.0, nor the decisions and actions of the Parties relating in any way to the periodic
review process are:
a. subject to the process described in Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution;
or
b. reviewable by a court or in any other forum.
1.13.7
For greater certainty, none of the Parties is required to
agree to amend this Agreement or any agreement contemplated by this Agreement as a result of
the periodic review contemplated by 1.13.0. Where the Parties agree to amend this Agreement,
any such amendment will be made in accordance with 1.14.0. Where the Parties agree to amend
an agreement contemplated by this Agreement it will be amended in accordance with its
terms.
1.13.8
Each of the Parties is responsible for its own costs in
relation to the periodic review process.
1.14.0  AMENDMENT PROVISIONS
1.14.1
Except for any provision of this Agreement that provides that
an amendment requires the consent of only the Maa‑nulth First Nations and either Canada or
British Columbia, all amendments to this Agreement require the consent of all Parties to the
Agreement.
1.14.2
Canada will provide consent to an amendment to this Agreement
by order of the Governor-in-Council.
1.14.3
British Columbia will provide consent to an amendment to this
Agreement by resolution of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia.
1.14.4
If federal or provincial legislation is required to give
effect to an amendment to this Agreement, Canada or British Columbia will recommend to
Parliament or the Legislature, as the case may be, that the required legislation be
enacted.
1.14.5
The consent of each Maa‑nulth First Nation is required for an
amendment to this Agreement. Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will provide consent to such
amendment by a special resolution of its Maa‑nulth First Nation Government.
1.14.6
A special resolution, for the purpose of 1.14.5, means a
resolution passed by the legislative branch of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government by at
least two thirds of its members and will be the same resolution for each Maa‑nulth First
Nation Government.
1.14.7
Each Maa‑nulth First Nation will provide a certified copy of
the special resolution to each of Canada and British Columbia and each of Canada and
British Columbia is entitled to rely on that resolution as conclusive evidence of compliance
with 1.14.5.
1.14.8
An amendment to this Agreement takes effect on a date agreed
to by the Parties to the amendment, but if no date is agreed to, on the date that the last
Party required to consent to the amendment provides its consent.
1.14.9
Notwithstanding 1.14.1 to 1.14.8, if:
a. this Agreement provides:
i. that any of the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement in
respect of a matter that will result in an amendment to this Agreement, including a change
to a Schedule or an Appendix; and
ii. that if the Parties are unable to reach agreement, the matter will be finally
determined by arbitration in accordance with Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution;
and
b. those Parties have negotiated an agreement or the matter is determined by
arbitration,
this Agreement is deemed to be amended on the date that agreement or arbitrator's
decision takes effect, as the case may be.
1.14.10
Notwithstanding 1.14.1 to 1.14.8, if this Agreement provides
that a provision of this Agreement is amended upon the happening of an event, this Agreement
is deemed to be amended on the happening of that event.
1.14.11
In respect of amendments contemplated by 1.14.9 and 1.14.10,
the applicable Parties will:
a. provide notice to the other Parties of any agreement reached or arbitrator's
decision contemplated by 1.14.9 or the happening of an event referred to in 1.14.10;
and
b. agree on the wording or form of the deemed amendment.
1.14.12
In the case of an arbitrator's decision contemplated by
1.14.9, if the Parties are unable to agree, the wording or form of the deemed amendment will
be finally determined by the arbitrator.
1.14.13
Amendments to this Agreement will be published in the Canada
Gazette, the British Columbia Gazette and each Maa‑nulth First Nation's registry of laws,
contemplated by 13.5.0.
1.14.14
Before the Parties sign this Agreement, the chief negotiator
on behalf of Canada, the chief negotiator on behalf of British Columbia and the lead
negotiator of the Maa‑nulth First Nations may agree to minor amendments to this
Agreement.
1.15.0  INTERPRETATION
1.15.1
Except where this Agreement provides "notwithstanding any
other provision of this Agreement", a provision of this Chapter prevails to the extent of an
inconsistency or Conflict with any other provision of this Agreement.
1.15.2
No agreement, plan, guideline or other document made by a
Party or Parties that is referred to in or contemplated by this Agreement, including an
agreement that is reached as a result of negotiations that are required or permitted by this
Agreement is:
a. part of this Agreement; or
b. a treaty or land claims agreement, or recognizes or affirms aboriginal or
treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the
Constitution Act,
1982
.
1.15.3
If an authority of British Columbia referred to in this
Agreement is delegated from Canada and:
a. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or
b. if a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada or the Supreme
Court of Canada finally determines that the delegation of that authority is
invalid,
the reference to British Columbia is deemed to be a reference to
Canada.
1.15.4
If an authority of Canada referred to in this Agreement is
delegated from British Columbia and:
a. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or
b. if a superior court of a province, the Federal Court of Canada or the Supreme
Court of Canada finally determines that the delegation of that authority is
invalid,
the reference to Canada is deemed to be a reference to
British Columbia.
1.15.5
The provisions of this Agreement are not presumed to be
interpreted in favour of any Party.
1.15.6
Nothing in this Agreement will be construed as an admission or
recognition by Canada or British Columbia as to the nature, scope or location of any
aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, of any Maa‑nulth First Nation before the
Effective Date.
1.15.7
In this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided for or
unless otherwise clear from the context:
a. a reference to a statute or a regulation includes every amendment to it, every
regulation made under that statute, any law enacted in substitution for it or in replacement
of it;
b. the use of the singular includes the plural, and the use of the plural
includes the singular;
c. "or" is used in its inclusive sense, meaning A or B, or both A and
B;
d. "and" is used in its joint sense, meaning A and B, but not either
alone;
e. a reference in a Chapter to a "Schedule" means a schedule of that
Chapter;
f. "will" denotes an obligation that, unless this Agreement provides to the
contrary, must be carried out as soon as practicable after the Effective Date or the event
that gives rise to the obligation;
g. "may" is to be construed as permissive, but the use of the words "may not" is
to be construed as disempowering;
h. "including" means "including, but not limited to";
i. headings and subheadings are for convenience only, do not form a part of this
Agreement, and in no way define, limit, alter or enlarge the scope or meaning of any
provision of this Agreement;
j. where a word is defined in this Agreement or described in 1.15.7, other parts
of speech and grammatical forms of the same word have corresponding meanings;
k. a reference to a heading number or subheading number is a reference to the
paragraphs under that heading or subheading, as applicable;
l. "harvest" includes an attempt to harvest; and
m. "provincial" refers to the province of British Columbia.
1.15.8
This Agreement has been made in English and French, and both
versions of this Agreement are equally authoritative, in accordance with the
Official Languages Act
.
1.15.9
Notwithstanding 1.1.2, this Agreement is not binding on
territories or provinces other than British Columbia on matters within their jurisdiction
without their consent.
1.15.10
For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement is intended
to affect any aboriginal rights that the Maa‑nulth First Nations may have in a foreign
state.
1.16.0  CONSULTATION
1.16.1
Neither Canada nor British Columbia has any obligation to
consult with any Maa‑nulth First Nation except:
a. as provided for in this Agreement;
b. as may be provided for in federal or provincial legislation;
c. as may be provided for in an agreement with a Maa‑nulth First Nation other
than this Agreement; and
d. as may be required at common law in relation to an infringement of a Maa‑nulth
First Nation Section 35 Right.
1.16.2
Nothing in this Agreement, nor any action or authority taken,
exercised or carried out by Canada or British Columbia in accordance with this Agreement is,
or will be interpreted to be, an infringement of a Maa‑nulth First Nation Section 35
Right.
1.17.0  INFORMATION AND PRIVACY
1.17.1
For the purposes of federal and provincial access to
information and privacy legislation, information that a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government
provides to Canada or British Columbia in confidence is deemed to be information received or
obtained in confidence from another government.
1.17.2
If a Maa‑nulth First Nation Government requests disclosure of
information from Canada or British Columbia, the request will be evaluated as if it were a
request by a province for disclosure of that information, but Canada and British Columbia
are not required to disclose to that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government information that is
only available to a particular province or particular provinces or that is not available to
any provinces or that is not available to any province.
1.17.3
The Parties may enter into agreements in respect of any one or
more of the collection, protection, retention, use, disclosure, and confidentiality of
personal, general or other information in accordance with any applicable legislation,
including federal and provincial access to information and privacy.
1.17.4
Canada or British Columbia may provide information to a
Maa‑nulth First Nation Government in confidence if that Maa‑nulth First Nation Government
has made a law or the applicable Maa‑nulth First Nation has entered into an agreement with
Canada or British Columbia, as the case may be, under which the confidentiality of the
information will be protected.
1.17.5
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement:
a. Canada and British Columbia are not required to disclose any information that
they are required to or authorized to withhold under any Federal Law or Provincial Law,
including under sections 37 to 39 of the
Canada Evidence Act
;
b. if federal or provincial legislation allows the disclosure of certain
information only if specified conditions for disclosure are satisfied, Canada and British
Columbia are not required to disclose that information unless those conditions are
satisfied; and
c. the Parties are not required to disclose any information that may be withheld
under a privilege at law.
1.18.0  OBLIGATION TO NEGOTIATE
1.18.1
Whenever the Parties are obliged under any provision of this
Agreement to negotiate and attempt to reach agreement, unless the Parties otherwise agree,
all Parties will participate in the negotiations.
1.18.2
Except as provided in 1.12.5, whenever this Agreement provides
that the Parties, or any of them, "will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement", those
negotiations will be conducted as described in Chapter 25 Dispute Resolution, but the
Parties, or any of them, are not obliged to proceed to Stage Three of Chapter 25 Dispute
Resolution unless, in a particular case, they are required to do so under
25.9.1.
1.19.0  ENTIRE AGREEMENT
1.19.1
This Agreement is the entire agreement among the Parties in
respect of the subject matter of this Agreement and, except as described in this Agreement,
there is no representation, warranty, collateral agreement, condition, right or obligation
affecting this Agreement.
1.19.2
The Schedules and Appendices to this Agreement form part of
this Agreement.
1.20.0  NO IMPLIED WAIVER
1.20.1
A provision of this Agreement, or the performance by a Party
of an obligation under this Agreement, may not be waived unless the waiver is in writing and
signed by the Party or Parties giving the waiver.
1.20.2
No written waiver of a provision of this Agreement, or
performance by a Party of an obligation under this Agreement, or of default by a Party of an
obligation under this Agreement, is a waiver of any other provision, obligation or
subsequent default.
1.21.0  ASSIGNMENT
1.21.1
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties, this Agreement may
not be assigned, either in whole or in part, by any Party.
1.22.0  ENUREMENT
1.22.1
This Agreement enures to the benefit of and is binding upon
the Parties and their respective permitted assigns.
1.23.0  NOTICE
1.23.1
In 1.23.2 to 1.23.6, "communication" includes a notice,
document, request, response, approval, authorization, confirmation or
consent.
1.23.2
Unless otherwise described in this Agreement, a communication
between or among the Parties under this Agreement will be in writing and will
be:
a. delivered personally or by courier;
b. transmitted by fax; or
c. mailed by prepaid registered post.
1.23.3
A communication is considered to have been given, made or
delivered, and received:
a. if delivered personally or by courier, at the start of business on the next
business day after the business day on which it was received by the addressee or a
responsible representative of the addressee;
b. if transmitted by fax and the sender receives confirmation of the
transmission, at the start of business on the business day next following the day on which
it was transmitted; or
c. if mailed by prepaid registered post in Canada, when the postal receipt is
acknowledged by the addressee.
1.23.4
In addition to the provisions of 1.23.2 and 1.23.3, the
Parties may agree to give, make or deliver a communication by means other than those
provided in 1.23.2.
1.23.5
The Parties will provide to each other addresses for delivery
of communications under this Agreement and will deliver a communication to the address
provided by each Party.
1.23.6
If no other address for delivery of a particular communication
has been provided by a Party, a communication will be delivered to, mailed to the address or
transmitted to the fax number of, the intended recipient as set out below:
For:
Canada
Attention:
Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development
House of
Commons
Room 583, Confederation Building
Ottawa, Ontario
K1A 0A6
Fax Number:
(819) 953-4941
For:
British Columbia
Attention:
Minister of Aboriginal Relations and Reconciliation
Room 310,
Parliament Buildings
PO Box 9052 Stn Prov Govt
Victoria,
British Columbia
V8W 9E2
Fax Number:
(250) 356-6595
For:
Huu‑ay‑aht First Nations
Attention:
Chief Councillor
Box 70
Bamfield,
British Columbia
V0R 1B0
Fax Number:
(250) 728-1222
For:
Ka:'yu:'k't'h'/Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations
Attention:
Chief Councillor
General Delivery
Kyuquot,
British Columbia
V0P 1J0
Fax Number:
(250) 332-5210
For:
Toquaht Nation
Attention:
Chief Councillor
Box 759
1316 Pine Street
Ucluelet, British Columbia
V0R 3A0
Fax Number:
(250) 726-4403
For:
Uchucklesaht Tribe
Attention:
Chief Councillor
Box 1118
Port Alberni,
British Columbia
V9Y 7L9
Fax Number:
(250) 724-1806
For:
Ucluelet First Nation
Attention:
Chief Councillor
Box 699
Ucluelet,
British Columbia
V0R 3A0
Fax Number:
(250) 726-7552
Contents
|
Sections 1 to 31
|
Schedule - Contents
|
Schedule - Preamble
|
Schedule - Chapter 1
|
Schedule - Chapter 2
|
Schedule - Chapter 3
|
Schedule - Chapter 4
|
Schedule - Chapter 5
|
Schedule - Chapter 6
|
Schedule - Chapter 7
|
Schedule - Chapter 8
|
Schedule - Chapter 9
|
Schedule - Chapter 10
|
Schedule - Chapter 11
|
Schedule - Chapter 12
|
Schedule - Chapter 13
|
Schedule - Chapter 14
|
Schedule - Chapter 15
|
Schedule - Chapter 16
|
Schedule - Chapter 17
|
Schedule - Chapter 18
|
Schedule - Chapter 19
|
Schedule - Chapter 20
|
Schedule - Chapter 21
|
Schedule - Chapter 22
|
Schedule - Chapter 23
|
Schedule - Chapter 24
|
Schedule - Chapter 25
|
Schedule - Chapter 26
|
Schedule - Chapter 27
|
Schedule - Chapter 28
|
Schedule - Chapter 29
|
Appendix - Contents
|
Appendix - Introduction
|
Appendix A
|
Appendix B
|
Appendix C
|
Appendix D
|
Appendix E
|
Appendix F
|
Appendix G
|
Appendix H
|
Appendix I
|
Appendix J
|
Appendix K
|
Appendix L
|
Appendix M
|
Appendix N
|
Appendix O
|
Appendix P
|
Appendix Q
|
Appendix R
|
Appendix S
|
Appendix T
|
Appendix U
|
Appendix V
|
Appendix W
|
Appendix X
|
Appendix Y
