"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Water Act
British Columbia Dam Safety Regulation
B.C. Reg. 44/2000
Water Act
Rating
Loss of Life
Economic and
Social Loss
Environmental and
Cultural Losses
VERY HIGH
Large potential for multiple
loss of life involving residents
and working, travelling and/or recreating public. Development
within inundation area (the area that could be flooded if the
dam fails) typically includes communities, extensive
commercial and work areas,
main highways, railways, and locations of concentrated
recreational activity. Estimated fatalities could exceed 100.
Very high economic losses
affecting infrastructure, public
and commercial facilities in and beyond inundation area.
Typically includes destruction of or extensive damage to large
residential areas, concentrated commercial land uses,
highways, railways, power lines, pipelines and other
utilities. Estimated direct and indirect (interruption of
service) costs could exceed $100 million.
Loss or significant deterioration
of nationally or provincially
important fisheries habitat
(including water quality), wildlife
habitat, rare and/or endangered
species, unique landscapes or
sites of cultural significance.
Feasibility and/or practicality
of restoration and/or compensation
is low.
HIGH
Some potential for multiple
loss of life involving residents,
and working, travelling and/or recreating public. Development
within inundation area typically includes highways and
railways, commercial and work areas, locations of concentrated
recreational activity and scattered residences. Estimated
fatalities less than 100.
Substantial economic losses
affecting infrastructure, public
and commercial facilities in
and beyond inundation area. Typically includes destruction
of or extensive damage to concentrated commercial land uses,
highways, railways, power lines, pipelines and other
utilities. Scattered residences may be destroyed or severely
damaged. Estimated direct and indirect (interruption of
service) costs could exceed $1 million.
Loss or significant deterioration of nationally or
provincially important fisheries habitat (including water
quality), wildlife habitat, rare and/or endangered species,
unique
landscapes or sites of cultural significance. Feasibility and
practicality of restoration and/or compensation is high.
LOW
Low potential for multiple loss of life. Inundation area is
typically undeveloped except for minor roads, temporarily
inhabited or non- residential farms and rural activities.
There must be a reliable element of natural warning if larger
development exists.
Low economic losses to limited infrastructure, public and
commercial activities. Estimated direct and indirect
(interruption of service) costs could exceed $100 000.
Loss or significant deterioration of regionally important
fisheries habitat (including water quality), wildlife habitat,
rare and endangered species, unique landscapes or sites of
cultural significance. Feasibility and practicality of
restoration and/or compensation is high. Includes situations
where recovery would occur with time without restoration.
VERY LOW
Minimal potential for any loss of life. The inundation area is
typically undeveloped.
Minimal economic losses typically limited to owner's property
not to exceed $100 000. Virtually no potential exists for
future development of other land uses within the foreseeable
future.
No significant loss or deterioration of fisheries habitat,
wildlife habitat, rare or endangered species, unique
landscapes or sites of cultural significance.
