"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Crime Victim Assistance Act
Crime Victim Assistance (General) Regulation
B.C. Reg. 161/2002
2
Individual counselling session provide by a counsellor
who is not described in item 3, 4 or 5 of this
Schedule and who has the following education, training
and experience:
(a)
Education and Training: undergraduate degree or 2 year
diploma in a field related to counselling to be
provided under the Act. Related fields include
psychology, social work, criminology, child and youth
care or psychiatric nursing.
(b)
Experience:
(i)
for a person with an undergraduate degree, a minimum
of 4 years supervised counselling experience in a
field related to counselling to be provided under the
Act;
(ii)
for a person with a 2 year diploma, a minimum of 5
years supervised counselling experience in a field
related to counselling to be provided under the Act.
Related fields include psychology, social work,
criminology, child and youth care or psychiatric
nursing.
In paragraph (b) of this item,
"supervised counselling experience"
includes any time spent in a supervised clinical
placement approved by a college or university, up to a
maximum of 500 hours.
$60
3
An individual counselling session provided by a
counsellor who is not described in item 4
or 5 of this Schedule and who has the following
education, training and experience:
(a)
Education and Training: master's degree or doctorate
in psychology, psychiatry, social work, clinical or
counselling psychology or criminology.
(b)
Experience: A minimum of 6 months supervised
counselling experience for a counsellor with a
doctorate. A minimum of 2 years supervised
counselling experience for a counsellor with a
master's degree.
In paragraph (b) of this item,
"supervised counselling experience"
includes any time spent in a supervised clinical
placement approved by a college or university, up to a
maximum of 800 hours.
$80
4
An individual counselling session provided by a counsellor who
is not described in item 5 of this Schedule and who is a
member in good standing and approved for private practice by
the B.C. Registered Social Workers Association or an
equivalent association in another jurisdiction.
$95
5
An individual counselling session provided by a counsellor who
is a member in good standing of the B.C. Registered
Psychologists Association or an equivalent association in
another jurisdiction.
$105
