"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Business Corporations Act and Cooperative Association Act
Cooperative Association Regulation
B.C. Reg. 391/2000
1
The appeal of a termination of membership in a housing
cooperative is governed by the
Cooperative Association Act
and Rule 18-3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules. If you wish to
appeal the decision to terminate your membership in the
housing cooperative, you must first file a Notice of Appeal
(Form 59, attached) in a Supreme Court registry within 30 days
after the day you receive this Notice. (If you do not know
where nearest the court registry is, consult the provincial
government listings in the telephone directory.)
2
The Notice of Appeal is a notice to the housing cooperative
that you are appealing its decision to terminate your
membership and that a hearing has been scheduled with a judge
to determine how the appeal should proceed. This hearing is
not
the appeal itself; it is an initial application to a judge for
directions as to how the appeal should proceed. (The judge may
give any direction he or she considers necessary for the
proper hearing and determination of the appeal. The judge may,
for example, order that certain documents be produced at the
appeal or set time limits within which you and/or the housing
cooperative must take certain steps.)
3
After completing the Notice of Appeal, except for the section
that sets out the place and time of the hearing, the Notice of
Appeal is ready to be filed at the court registry. On payment
of a filing fee
†
, a date for the hearing will be set by the court registry
when you present the Notice of Appeal for filing.
4
Within 14 days after the date on which you file your Notice of
Appeal, you must inform the housing cooperative of your appeal
and the date scheduled for a hearing by serving a copy of the
Notice of Appeal on the housing cooperative. (The Notice of
Appeal may be served on the housing cooperative by leaving it
at its registered office; sending it by registered mail to the
registered office of the housing cooperative; personally
serving it on the directors or officers; or serving it in any
manner listed in Rule 4-3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules.)
5
You are advised to serve the Notice of Appeal on the housing
cooperative immediately after it has been filed. (The Supreme
Court Civil Rules require that there must be at least 7 days
between the time the cooperative is served with a Notice of
Appeal and the day of the hearing.)
6
After the initial hearing at which the judge issues directions
as to how the appeal is to proceed, you must obtain a date
from the court registrar for the hearing of the appeal. This
is best accomplished in consultation with the housing
cooperative to ensure that one of its representatives will be
available to attend the hearing.
7
After the registrar gives you a date for the hearing of the
appeal, you must file with the registrar a Notice of Hearing
of Appeal (Form 59B, attached) and serve a copy of it on the
housing cooperative. (The Notice of Hearing of Appeal may be
served in the same manner as the Notice of Appeal.) The appeal
of your termination of membership will be heard by a judge at
the time and place set out in the Notice of Hearing of Appeal,
and you will have an opportunity to present your appeal in
accordance with any directions that were issued by the judge
at the initial hearing for directions.
8
If after you've filed or served the Notice of Hearing of
Appeal you decide not to proceed with the appeal, you must
file a Notice of Abandonment of Appeal (Form 59C, attached) at
the court registry and serve a copy of the Notice on the
housing cooperative. Failure to properly notify the court
registry and the housing cooperative may result in your having
to pay the costs of an application to the court by the housing
cooperative to dismiss the appeal and any other costs the
court awards against you.
9
If you do not appeal the decision to terminate your
membership, the housing cooperative is entitled to apply for
an order of possession of the residential premises under
section 172 of the
Cooperative Association Act
.
