





View Complete Statute



Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2007] CHAPTER 39


Schedule


Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement



APPENDIX P


DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURES





APPENDIX P–1


Collaborative Negotiations




APPENDIX P–2


Mediation




APPENDIX P–3


Technical Advisory Panel




APPENDIX P–4


Neutral Evaluation




APPENDIX P–5


Elders Advisory Council




APPENDIX P–6


Arbitration






APPENDIX P–1



Collaborative Negotiations


DEFINITIONS

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter;


(b)
"party"
means a participating Party to collaborative negotiations under this
Appendix; and


(c)
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


GENERAL

2. Collaborative negotiations commence:

(a) on the date of delivery of a written notice requiring the
commencement of collaborative negotiations; or


(b) in the case of negotiations in the circumstances described in
subclause 6 (c) of the Chapter, on the date of the first negotiation
meeting.


NOTICE


3. A notice under clause 14 of the Chapter requiring the commencement of
collaborative negotiations will include the following:


(a) the names of the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement;


(b) a brief summary of the particulars of the Disagreement;


(c) a description of the efforts made to date to resolve the
Disagreement;


(d) the names of the individuals involved in those efforts; and


(e) any other information that will help the parties.


REPRESENTATION


4. A party may attend collaborative negotiations with or without legal
counsel.


5. At the commencement of the first negotiation meeting, each party will
advise the other parties of any limitations on the authority of its
representatives.


NEGOTIATION PROCESS


6. The parties will convene their first negotiation meeting in
collaborative negotiations, other than those described in subparagraph 6
(c) of the Chapter, within 21 days after the commencement of the
collaborative negotiations.


7. Before the first scheduled negotiation meeting, the parties will
discuss and attempt to reach agreement on any procedural issues that
will facilitate the collaborative negotiations, including the
requirements of clause 25 of the Chapter.


8. For purposes of subclause 25 (a) of the Chapter, "timely disclosure"
means disclosure made within 15 days after a request for disclosure by a
party.


9. The parties will make a serious attempt to resolve the Disagreement
by

(a) identifying underlying interests;

(b) isolating points of agreement and Disagreement;

(c) exploring alternative solutions;

(d) considering compromises or accommodations; and


(e) taking any other measures that will assist in resolution of the
Disagreement.


10. No transcript or recording will be kept of collaborative
negotiations, but this does not prevent a person from keeping notes of
the negotiations.


CONFIDENTIALITY


11. In order to assist in the resolution of a Disagreement,
collaborative negotiations will not be open to the public.


12. The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


(a) all oral and written information disclosed in the collaborative
negotiations; and


(b) the fact that this information has been disclosed.


13. The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any
proceeding, whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter
of the collaborative negotiations, any oral or written information
disclosed in or arising from the collaborative negotiations, including:


(a) any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
collaborative negotiations that are not otherwise produced or producible
in that proceeding;


(b) any views expressed, or suggestions made, by any party in respect of
a possible settlement of the Disagreement;


(c) any admissions made by any party in the course of the collaborative
negotiations, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; and


(d) the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or
accept a proposal for settlement.

14. Sections 12 and 13 do not apply:

(a) in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the Disagreement that was the subject of the
collaborative negotiation;


(b) if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests
of the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


(c) if the oral or written information referred to in these sections is
in the public forum.


RIGHT TO WITHDRAW


15. A party may withdraw from collaborative negotiations at any time.


TERMINATION OF COLLABORATIVE NEGOTIATIONS


16. Collaborative negotiations are terminated when any of the following
occurs:

(a) the expiration of:
i. 30 days, or

ii. in the case of collaborative negotiations in the circumstances
described in subparagraph 6 (c) of the Chapter, 120 days after the first
scheduled negotiation meeting, or any longer period agreed to by the
parties in writing;


(b) a party directly engaged in the Disagreement withdraws from the
collaborative negotiations under section 15;


(c) the parties agree in writing to terminate the collaborative
negotiations; or


(d) the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the Disagreement.



APPENDIX P–2



Mediation


DEFINITIONS

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter of the Agreement;


(b)
"party"
means a participating Party to a mediation under this Appendix; and


(c)
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


GENERAL


2. A mediation commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
Disagreement have agreed in writing to use mediation, or are deemed to
have agreed to use mediation, under clause 23 of the Chapter.


APPOINTMENT OF MEDIATOR


3. A mediation will be conducted by one mediator jointly appointed by
the parties.

4. A mediator will be:

(a) an experienced and skilled mediator, preferably with unique
qualities or specialized knowledge that would be of assistance in the
circumstances of the Disagreement; and

(b) independent and impartial.

5. If the parties fail to agree on a mediator within 15 days after
commencement of a mediation, the appointment will be made by the Neutral
Appointing Authority on the written request of a party that is copied to
the other parties.


6. Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a mediator may
employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support
services.


REQUIREMENT TO WITHDRAW


7. At any time a party may give the mediator and the other parties a
written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the mediator to
withdraw from the mediation on the grounds that the party has
justifiable doubts as to the mediator's independence or impartiality.


8. On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the mediator must
immediately withdraw from the mediation.


9. A person who is a Tsawwassen Member, or related to a Tsawwassen
Member, must not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the
grounds of that citizenship or relationship.


END OF APPOINTMENT

10. A mediator's appointment terminates if:

(a) the mediator is required to withdraw under section 8;


(b) the mediator withdraws from office for any reason; or

(c) the parties agree to the termination.

11. If a mediator's appointment terminates, a replacement mediator will
be appointed using the procedure in sections 3 to 5 and the required
time period commences from the date of termination of the appointment.


REPRESENTATION


12. A party may attend a mediation with or without legal counsel.


13. If a mediator is a lawyer, the mediator must not act as legal
counsel for any party.


14. At the commencement of the first meeting of a mediation, each party
will advise the mediator and the other parties of any limitations on the
authority of its representatives.


CONDUCT OF MEDIATION

15. The parties will:

(a) make a serious attempt to resolve the Disagreement by:

i. identifying underlying interests,

ii. isolating points of agreement and Disagreement,

iii. exploring alternative solutions, and

iv. considering compromises or accommodations; and


(b) cooperate fully with the mediator and give prompt attention to, and
respond to, all communications from the mediator.


16. A mediator may conduct a mediation in any manner the mediator
considers necessary and appropriate to assist the parties to resolve the
Disagreement in a fair, efficient, and cost-effective manner.


17. Within seven days of appointment of a mediator, each party will
deliver a brief written summary to the mediator of the relevant facts,
the issues in the Disagreement, and its viewpoint in respect of them and
the mediator will deliver copies of the summaries to each party at the
end of the seven day period.


18. A mediator may conduct a mediation in joint meetings or private
caucus convened at locations the mediator designates after consulting
the parties.


19. Disclosures made by any party to a mediator in private caucus must
not be disclosed by the mediator to any other party without the consent
of the disclosing party.


20. No transcript or recording will be kept of a mediation meeting but
this does not prevent a person from keeping notes of the negotiations.


CONFIDENTIALITY


21. In order to assist in the resolution of a Disagreement, a mediation
will not be open to the public.


22. The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


(a) all oral and written information disclosed in the mediation; and


(b) the fact that this information has been disclosed.


23. The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any
proceeding, whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter
of the mediation, any oral or written information disclosed in or
arising from the mediation, including:


(a) any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
mediation that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


(b) any views expressed, or suggestions, or proposals made in respect of
a possible settlement of the Disagreement;


(c) any admissions made by any party in the course of the mediation,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


(d) any recommendations for settlement made by the mediator; and


(e) the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or
accept a proposal or recommendation for settlement.

24. Sections 22 and 23 do not apply:

(a) in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the Disagreement that was the subject of a
mediation;


(b) if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests
of the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


(c) if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


25. A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and
written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a
result of the mediation, and all parties will oppose any effort to have
that person or that information subpoenaed.


26. A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is
disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the mediation.


REFERRAL OF ISSUES TO OTHER PROCESSES


27. During a mediation the parties may agree to refer particular issues
in the Disagreement to independent fact-finders, expert panels or other
processes for opinions or findings that may assist them in the
resolution of the Disagreement, and in that event, the parties must
specify:

(a) the terms of reference for the process;

(b) the time within which the process must be concluded; and


(c) how the costs of the process are to be allocated to the parties.


28. The time specified for concluding a mediation will be extended for
15 days following receipt of the findings or opinions rendered in a
process described under section 27.


RIGHT TO WITHDRAW


29. A party may withdraw from a mediation at any time by giving written
notice of its intent to the mediator.


30. Before a withdrawal is effective, the withdrawing party will:

(a) speak with the mediator;
(b) disclose its reasons for withdrawing; and

(c) give the mediator the opportunity to discuss the consequences of
withdrawal.


TERMINATION OF MEDIATION


31. A mediation is terminated when any of the following occurs:


(a) subject to section 28, the expiration of 30 days after the
appointment of the mediator, or any longer period agreed by the parties
in writing;


(b) the parties have agreed in writing to terminate the mediation or not
to appoint a replacement mediator under section 11;


(c) a party directly engaged in the Disagreement withdraws from the
mediation under section 29; or


(d) the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the Disagreement.


MEDIATOR RECOMMENDATION


32. If a mediation is terminated without the parties reaching agreement,
the parties may agree to request the mediator to give a written
non-binding recommendation for settlement, but the mediator may decline
the request without reasons.


33. Within 15 days after delivery of a mediator's recommendation under
section 32, the parties will meet with the mediator to attempt to
resolve the Disagreement.


COSTS


34. A party withdrawing from a mediation under section 29 is not
responsible for any costs of the mediation that are incurred after the
date that party's withdrawal takes effect.



APPENDIX P–3



Technical Advisory Panel


DEFINITIONS

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter;


(b)
"member"
means a member of the panel;


(c)
"panel"
means a technical advisory panel appointed under this Appendix;


(d)
"party"
means a participating Party to a reference under this Appendix;


(e)
"reference"
means a reference of a Disagreement to the panel; and


(f)
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


GENERAL

2. A question of law may not be referred to a panel.

3. A reference commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
Disagreement have agreed in writing to use a technical advisory panel
under clause 23 of the Chapter.


APPOINTMENT OF PANEL MEMBERS


4. A panel will have three members unless the parties agree on a panel
of five members.


5. A member will be skilled and knowledgeable in the technical or
scientific subject matter or issues of the Disagreement.

6. If there are two parties and the panel will have:

(a) three members, each party will appoint one member and the two
appointed members will jointly appoint the third member; or


(b) five members, each party will appoint two members and the four
appointed members will jointly appoint the fifth member.

7. If there are three parties and the panel will have:

(a) three members, each party will appoint one member; or


(b) five members, each party will appoint one member and the three
appointed members will jointly appoint the fourth and fifth members.


8. In the appointment procedures under sections 6 and 7, if:


(a) a party fails to appoint the required number of members within 30
days after commencement of the reference; or


(b) the appointing members fail to appoint the required number of
additional members within 15 days after the last appointing member was
appointed


the required appointments will be made by the Neutral Appointing
Authority on the written request of a party that is copied to the other
parties.


END OF APPOINTMENT


9. The appointment of a member who is jointly appointed by the parties,
by the appointing members, or by the Neutral Appointing Authority,
terminates if:


(a) the member withdraws from office for any reason; or

(b) the parties agree to the termination.

10. The appointment of a member appointed by one party, or by the
Neutral Appointing Authority in place of the party, terminates if:


(a) the member withdraws from office for any reason; or


(b) the appointing party terminates the appointment.


11. If the appointment of a member jointly appointed by the parties, by
the appointing members, or by the Neutral Appointing Authority in place
of the parties or members, terminates, a replacement member will be
appointed under section 6 or 7, as applicable, within the required time
commencing from the termination of the former member's appointment.


12. Subject to section 13, if the appointment of a member appointed by
one party or by the Neutral Appointing Authority in place of the party
terminates, a replacement member will be appointed under section 6 or 7,
as applicable, within the required time commencing from the termination
of the former member's appointment.


13. A party may elect not to replace a member it had appointed but the
party may not withdraw from the reference except as permitted under
sections 31 to 35.


TERMS OF REFERENCE


14. Not more than 15 days after the appointment of the last member of a
panel, the parties must provide the panel with written terms of
reference that set out at least the following:

(a) the parties to the Disagreement;

(b) the subject matter or issues of the Disagreement;


(c) the kind of assistance that the parties request from the panel,
including giving advice, making determinations, finding facts,
conducting, evaluating and reporting on studies and making
recommendations;


(d) the time period within which the parties request the assistance to
be provided;


(e) the time periods or stages of the reference at the conclusion of
which the panel must provide the parties with written interim reports on
the panel's progress on the referral and on expenditures under the
budget described in section 16 as they relate to that progress;


(f) the time within which the panel must provide the parties with the
budget described in section 16; and


(g) any limitations on the application of sections 36 to 42 to the
reference.


15. The parties may discuss the proposed terms of reference with the
panel before they are finally settled.


16. Within the time referred to in section 14 (f), the panel will
provide the parties with a budget for the costs of conducting the
reference, including:


(a) fees to be paid to the members who have been jointly appointed by
the parties, or by appointing members;


(b) costs of required travel, food and accommodation of members who have
been jointly appointed by the parties, or by appointing members;


(c) costs of any required administrative assistance; and

(d) costs of any studies.

17. The parties will consider the budget submitted by the panel and
approve that budget with any amendments agreed by the parties before the
panel undertakes any activities under the reference.


18. The parties are not responsible for any costs incurred by the panel
that are in excess of those approved under section 17, and the panel is
not authorized to incur any costs beyond that amount without obtaining
prior written approval from all the parties.


19. The parties may amend the written terms of reference or the budget
from time to time as they consider necessary, or on recommendation of
the panel.


CONDUCT OF REFERENCE TO PANEL

20. The parties will:
(a) cooperate fully with the panel;

(b) comply with any requests made by the panel as permitted or required
under this Appendix; and


(c) give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the
panel.


21. Subject to any limitations or requirements in the terms of reference
given and the limits of the budget approved under sections 17 to 19, the
panel may conduct its reference using any procedure it considers
necessary or appropriate, including holding a hearing.


22. If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently
as possible and in the manner the panel specifies, after consultation
with the parties.


23. If a hearing is held, the panel must give the parties reasonable
written notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any event, be
not less than seven days.


24. No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does
not prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the
hearing.


25. The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a hearing before the
panel.


26. The panel will give the parties the interim and final written
reports specified in its terms of reference within the required times.


27. A report of the panel is not binding on the parties.


PANEL BUSINESS


28. A panel will appoint one of its members to act as chair of the
panel.


29. The chair of a panel is responsible for all communications between
the panel, the parties and any other person with whom the panel wishes
to communicate, but this does not preclude a member from communicating
informally with a party.


30. A panel will make every reasonable effort to conduct its business,
and fulfill its obligations under its terms of reference, by consensus,
but:


(a) if consensus is not possible, by actions approved by a majority of
its members; or


(b) if a majority is not possible, by actions approved by the chair of
the panel.


RIGHT TO WITHDRAW


31. If one of two parties to a reference, or two of three parties to a
reference, are not satisfied with the progress of the reference:

(a) after receipt of an interim report; or

(b) as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report
within the required time


the dissatisfied party or parties, as the case may be, may give written
notice to the panel and the other party that the party or parties are
withdrawing from the reference and that the reference is terminated.


32. If one of three parties to a reference is not satisfied with the
progress of the reference:

(a) after receipt of an interim report; or

(b) as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report
within the required time


the dissatisfied party may give written notice to the panel and the
other parties that it is withdrawing from the reference.


33. Two parties who receive a notice under section 32 will advise the
panel in writing that they have agreed:

(a) to terminate the reference; or
(b) to continue the reference.

34. If no party gives a notice under sections 31 or 32 within 10 days
after:

(a) receipt of an interim report; or

(b) the time required to submit an interim report


all parties will be deemed to be satisfied with the progress of the
reference until submission of the next required interim report.


35. No party may withdraw from a reference except as permitted under
sections 31 to 34.


CONFIDENTIALITY


36. The parties may, by agreement recorded in the terms of reference of
the panel in section 14, limit the application of all or any part of
sections 37 to 42 in a reference.


37. In order to assist in the resolution of the Disagreement, a
reference will not be open to the public.


38. The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


(a) all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and


(b) the fact that this information has been disclosed.


39. The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any
proceeding, whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter
of the reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or
arising from the reference, including:


(a) any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


(b) any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the Disagreement;


(c) any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


(d) the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or
accept a proposal or recommendation for settlement; and

(e) any reports of the panel.
40. Sections 38 and 39 do not apply:

(a) in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the Disagreement that was the subject of the
reference;


(b) if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests
of the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


(c) if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


41. A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral or written
information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a result of the
reference, and all parties will oppose any effort to have that person or
that information subpoenaed.


42. A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is
disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the reference.


ATTEMPT TO RESOLVE AFTER REPORT


43. Within 21 days after receipt of the final written report of a panel,
the parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the Disagreement
taking into account the report of the panel or any other considerations.


44. If the parties and the panel agree, the members of a panel may
attend the meeting under section 43, and provide any necessary
assistance to the parties.


TERMINATION OF REFERENCE TO PANEL


45. A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:


(a) the reference has been terminated as permitted under section 31 or
33;


(b) the expiration of 30 days after receipt of the final report of the
panel, or any longer period agreed by the parties in writing; or


(c) the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the Disagreement.


COSTS


46. A party is not responsible for sharing any costs of the reference
that were incurred after the date that party notified the other parties,
under section 32, of its withdrawal from the reference.



APPENDIX P–4



Neutral Evaluation


DEFINITION

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter;


(b)
"party"
means a participating Party to a neutral evaluation under this Appendix;
and


(c)
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


GENERAL


2. A neutral evaluation commences on the date that the Parties directly
engaged in the Disagreement have agreed in writing to use neutral
evaluation under clause 23 of the Chapter.


APPOINTMENT OF NEUTRAL EVALUATOR


3. A neutral evaluation will be conducted by one person jointly
appointed by the parties.

4. A neutral evaluator will be:

(a) experienced or skilled in the subject matter or issues of the
Disagreement; and

(b) independent and impartial.

5. If the parties fail to agree on a neutral evaluator within 21 days
after commencement of a neutral evaluation, the appointment will be made
by the Neutral Appointing Authority on the written request of a party
that is copied to the other parties.


6. Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a neutral
evaluator may employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other
support services.


REQUIREMENT TO WITHDRAW


7. At any time a party may give a neutral evaluator and the other
parties a written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the neutral
evaluator to withdraw from the neutral evaluation on the grounds that
the party has justifiable doubts as to the neutral evaluator's
independence or impartiality.


8. On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the neutral evaluator
must immediately withdraw from the neutral evaluation.


9. A person who is a Tsawwassen Member, or related to a Tsawwassen
Member, must not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the
grounds of that membership or relationship.


END OF APPOINTMENT

10. A neutral evaluator's appointment terminates if:

(a) the neutral evaluator is required to withdraw under section 8;


(b) the neutral evaluator withdraws from office for any reason; or

(c) the parties agree to the termination.

11. Unless the parties agree otherwise, if a neutral evaluator's
appointment terminates, a replacement will be appointed under section 5
within the required time commencing from the date of the termination of
the appointment.


COMMUNICATIONS


12. Except with respect to administrative details or a meeting under
section 31, the parties will not communicate with the neutral evaluator:


(a) orally except in the presence of all parties; or


(b) in writing without immediately sending a copy of that communication
to all parties.


13. Section 12 also applies to any communication by a neutral evaluator
to the parties.


CONDUCT OF NEUTRAL EVALUATION

14. The parties will:
(a) cooperate fully with the neutral evaluator;

(b) comply with any requests made by the neutral evaluator as permitted
or required under this Appendix; and


(c) give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the
neutral evaluator.


15. A neutral evaluation will be conducted only on the basis of
documents submitted by the parties under section 20 unless the parties
agree to, or the neutral evaluator requires, additional submissions or
other forms of evidence.


16. If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently
as possible and in the manner the neutral evaluator specifies, after
consultation with the parties.


17. If a hearing is held, the neutral evaluator must give the parties
reasonable written notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any
event, be not less than seven days.


18. No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does
not prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the
hearing.


19. The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a neutral evaluation.


20. Within 15 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, each
party must deliver to the other parties and to the neutral evaluator a
written submission respecting the Disagreement, including facts upon
which the parties agree or disagree, and copies of any documents,
affidavits and exhibits on which the party relies.


21. Within 21 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, a party
may submit a reply to the submission of any other party and, in that
event, will provide copies of the reply to the party and the neutral
evaluator.


CONFIDENTIALITY


22. In order to assist in the resolution of the Disagreement, a neutral
evaluation will not be open to the public.


23. The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


(a) all oral and written information disclosed in the neutral
evaluation; and


(b) the fact that this information has been disclosed.


24. The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any
proceeding, whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter
of the neutral evaluation, any oral or written information disclosed in
or arising from the neutral evaluation, including:


(a) any documents of other parties produced in the course of the neutral
evaluation which are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


(b) any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the Disagreement;


(c) any admissions made by any party in the course of the neutral
evaluation, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


(d) the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or
accept a proposal for settlement; and


(e) subject to section 28, the opinion of the neutral evaluator.

25. Sections 23 and 24 do not apply:

(a) in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the Disagreement that was the subject of a neutral
evaluation;


(b) if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests
of the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


(c) if the oral or written information is in the public forum.


26. A neutral evaluator, or anyone retained or employed by the neutral
evaluator, is not compellable in any proceedings to give evidence about
any oral and written information acquired or opinion formed by that
person as a result of a neutral evaluation under this Appendix, and all
parties will oppose any effort to have that person or that information
subpoenaed.


27. A neutral evaluator and anyone retained or employed by the neutral
evaluator is disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding
relating to the Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves
persons not a party to the neutral evaluation.


28. Despite sections 23 to 26, after an arbitral tribunal has delivered
its final arbitral award, or a court has referred its decision, in
respect of a Disagreement, a party, for the purpose only of making a
submission on the allocation of costs of that arbitral or judicial
proceeding, may give to the arbitral tribunal or the court a copy of:


(a) the neutral evaluator's opinion respecting that agreement; or


(b) the neutral evaluator's notice of termination under section 7.


NON-BINDING OPINION

29. Within 21 days after the later of:

(a) delivery of the last submission required or permitted in a neutral
evaluation under this Appendix; or

(b) completion of a hearing,

the neutral evaluator will deliver to the parties a written opinion with
reasons in respect of the probable disposition of the Disagreement
should it be submitted to arbitral or judicial proceedings, as the case
may be, under the Chapter.


30. An opinion under section 29 is not binding on the parties.


ATTEMPT TO RESOLVE AFTER OPINION


31. Within 21 days after delivery of an opinion under section 29, the
parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the Disagreement, taking
into account the opinion of the neutral evaluator or any other
considerations.


32. If the parties and the neutral evaluator agree, the neutral
evaluator may attend a meeting under section 31, and provide any
necessary assistance to the parties.


FAILURE TO COMPLY


33. If a party fails to participate in the neutral evaluation as
contemplated in sections 14 to 21, the neutral evaluator may:


(a) provide an opinion based solely upon the information and submissions
they have obtained; or


(b) give a written notice of termination of the neutral evaluation


and, in either event, the neutral evaluator must record that party's
failure.


TERMINATION OF NEUTRAL EVALUATION


34. A neutral evaluation is terminated when any of the following occurs:


(a) the neutral evaluator gives a notice of termination under section 33
(b);


(b) the expiration of 30 days after receipt of an opinion under section
29 or 33, as the case may be, or any longer period agreed by the
parties;


(c) all the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement agree in
writing to terminate evaluation; or


(d) all the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the Disagreement.

COSTS

35. A party that has failed to participate in a neutral evaluation as
contemplated in sections 14 to 21 is responsible for its share of the
costs of the neutral evaluation, despite its failure to participate.


FEDERAL EXPROPRIATION


36. Where the matter referred to the neutral evaluator is an objection
to a proposed expropriation of an interest in Tsawwassen Lands under
clause 66 of the Lands Chapter, the following abridgement of time limits
applies to the neutral evaluation process set out in this Appendix,
unless the Parties otherwise agree in writing:


(a) under clause 5, the parties must agree to a neutral evaluator within
7 days after the commencement of a neutral evaluation; and


(b) under clause 16, if a hearing is held it must be held within 35 days
of the commencement of a neutral evaluation.


37. Where the matter referred to the neutral evaluator is an objection
to a proposed expropriation of an interest in Tsawwassen Lands under
clause 66 of the Lands Chapter, clauses 31, 32, 33 (b) and 34 (a) of
this Appendix do not apply to a neutral evaluation.


38. For greater certainty, a neutral evaluation concerning an objection
by the Tsawwassen First Nation to a proposed expropriation by Canada of
an interest in Tsawwassen Lands commences for the purposes of clause 2
of this Appendix on the day that notice in writing is received by the
Federal Expropriating Authority.



APPENDIX P–5



Elders Advisory Council


DEFINITION

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter;


(b)
"council"
means the elders advisory council appointed under this Appendix;


(c)
"elder"
means a member of a council;


(d)
"party"
means a participating Party to the reference under this Appendix;


(e)
"reference"
means a reference of a Disagreement to the council; and


(f)
"section"
means a section in this Appendix.


GENERAL


2. A reference commences on the date the Parties directly engaged in the
Disagreement have agreed in writing to use an elders advisory council
under clause 23 of the Chapter.


APPOINTMENT OF ELDERS


3. Within 30 days after a reference has commenced, each party will
appoint at least one, but not more than three, elders to the council.

4. Preferably, the elders will be individuals who:

(a) are recognized in their respective communities as wise, tolerant,
personable and articulate, and who:


i. are often sought out for counsel or advice, or


ii. have a record of distinguished public service; and


(b) are available to devote the time and energy as required to provide
the assistance described in this Appendix.


END OF APPOINTMENT

5. Unless an elder:

(a) has requested to be relieved of their appointment due to a conflict
of interest or otherwise; or


(b) is not able to fulfill their duties, due to incapacity or otherwise


the elder's appointment to the council may not be terminated until
termination of the reference in which the elder is involved.


6. If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances
described in section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was the only elder of
the council appointed by a party to the reference, that party must
replace the elder within seven days.


7. If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances
described in section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was not the only elder
of the council appointed by a party to the reference, that party may
replace the elder but the replacement must be made within seven days.


CONDUCT OF REFERENCE


8. In a reference, the parties will cooperate fully with the council,
and give prompt attention to, and respond, to all communications from
the council.


9. Notwithstanding section 8, a party is not required to disclose to the
council or provide it with any information that the party would not be
required to disclose in any arbitral or judicial proceedings in respect
of the Disagreement.


10. The council is expected to conduct itself informally in order that
the parties may take full advantage of the council's good offices to
resolve the Disagreement.


11. The council may establish its own process to suit the particular
circumstances of a reference including meeting with the parties together
or separately, conducting informal interviews or inquiries and
facilitating settlement negotiations.


12. The council will give the parties its final advice or
recommendations on a Disagreement referred to it within 120 days after
the commencement of the reference.


13. The council may, at its option, provide its advice to the parties:

(a) orally on the same occasion; or
(b) in writing.

14. The council may, by unanimous decision, extend the time for giving
advice or recommendations under section 12, on one occasion only, to a
maximum of 60 additional days.


15. The advice or recommendations of the council are not binding on the
parties.


16. Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, the council may
employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support
services.


RIGHT TO WITHDRAW


17. A party may not withdraw from a reference until its conclusion
unless all the parties agree in writing.


CONFIDENTIALITY


18. In order to assist in the resolution of the Disagreement, a
reference will not be open to the public.


19. The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:


(a) all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and


(b) the fact that this information has been disclosed.


20. The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any
proceeding, whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter
of the reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or
arising from the reference, including:


(a) any documents of other parties produced in the course of the
reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that
proceeding;


(b) any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible
settlement of the Disagreement;


(c) any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference,
unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party;


(d) any advice or recommendations made by an elder or the council; and


(e) the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or
accept any advice or recommendation for settlement.

21. Sections 19 and 20 do not apply:

(a) in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an
agreement resolving the Disagreement that was the subject of the
reference;


(b) if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests
of the public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for
confidentiality; or


(c) if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is
in the public forum.


22. An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is not
compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and
written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a
result of the reference and all parties will oppose any effort to have
that person or that information subpoenaed.


23. An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is
disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the
Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party
to the reference.


DECISION-MAKING


24. The council must make its best efforts to reach consensus among the
elders before taking any action or giving any advice under the
reference.


25. The council may not take any action under section 12 unless at least
one elder appointed by each party expressly agrees with the action
taken.


TERMINATION OF REFERENCE


26. A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:


(a) the council gives the parties its advice under section 12;


(b) the expiration of the applicable time period in section 12 or 14; or


(c) the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement sign a written
agreement resolving the Disagreement.



APPENDIX P–6



Arbitration


DEFINITIONS

1. In this Appendix:

(a)
"applicant"
means:


i. in an arbitration commenced under clause 27 of the Chapter, the party
that delivered the notice of arbitration, and


ii. in an arbitration commenced under clause 28 of the Chapter, the
party that the parties have agreed will be the applicant in the
agreement to arbitrate;


(b)
"arbitral award"
means any decision of the arbitral tribunal on the substance of the
Disagreement submitted to it, and includes:


i. an interim arbitral award, including an interim award made for the
preservation of property, and

ii. an award of interest or costs;

(c)
"arbitral tribunal"
means a single arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators appointed under this
Appendix;


(d)
"arbitration agreement"
includes


i. the requirement to refer to arbitration Disagreements described in
clause 27 of the Chapter; and


ii. an agreement to arbitrate a Disagreement as described in clause 28
of the Chapter;


(e)
"Chapter"
means the Dispute Resolution chapter of the Agreement;


(f)
"party"
means a participating Party to arbitration under this Appendix;


(g)
"respondent"
means a party other than the applicant;


(h)
"section"
means a section of this Appendix;


(i)
"Supreme Court"
means the Supreme Court of British Columbia.


2. A reference in this Appendix, other than in section 87 or 116 (a), to
a claim, applies to a counterclaim, and a reference in this Appendix to
a defence, applies to a defence to a counterclaim.


3. Despite clause 3 of the Chapter, the parties may not vary section 53
or 97.


COMMUNICATIONS


4. Except in respect of administrative details, the parties will not
communicate with the arbitral tribunal:


(a) orally, except in the presence of all other parties; or


(b) in writing, without immediately sending a copy of that communication
to all other parties.


5. Section 4 also applies to any communication by the arbitral tribunal
to the parties.


WAIVER OF RIGHT TO OBJECT

6. A party that knows that:
(a) any provision of this Appendix; or

(b) any requirement under the Agreement or arbitration agreement


has not been complied with, and yet proceeds with the arbitration
without stating its objection to noncompliance without undue delay or,
if a time limit is provided for stating that objection, within that
period of time, will be deemed to have waived its right to object.


7. In section 6 (a) "any provision of this Appendix" means any provision
of this Appendix in respect of which the parties may otherwise agree.


EXTENT OF JUDICIAL INTERVENTION

8. In matters governed by this Appendix:

(a) no court shall intervene except as provided in this Appendix; and


(b) no arbitral proceedings of an arbitral tribunal, or an order, ruling
or arbitral award made by an arbitral tribunal shall be questioned,
reviewed or restrained by a proceeding under any legislation or other
law that permits judicial review except to the extent provided in this
Appendix.


CONSTRUCTION OF APPENDIX


9. In construing a provision of this Appendix, a court or arbitral
tribunal may refer to the documents of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law and its working group respecting the preparation
of the UNCITRAL Model Arbitration Law and must give those documents the
weight that is appropriate in the circumstances.


STAY OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


10. If a Party commences legal proceedings in a court against another
Party in respect of a matter required or agreed to be submitted to
arbitration, a Party to the legal proceedings may, before or after
entering an appearance, and before delivery of any pleadings or taking
any other step in the proceedings, apply to that court to stay the
proceedings.


11. In an application under section 10, the court must make an order
staying the legal proceedings unless it determines that:


(a) the arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable
of being performed; or


(b) the legal proceedings are permitted under the Chapter.


12. An arbitration may be commenced or continued, and an arbitral award
made, even if an application has been brought under section 10, and the
issue is pending before the court.


INTERIM MEASURES BY COURT


13. It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a Party to
request from a court, before or during arbitral proceedings, an interim
measure of protection as provided in clause 13 of the Chapter, and for a
court to grant that measure.


COMMENCEMENT OF ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS


14. The arbitral proceedings in respect of a Disagreement:


(a) required to be arbitrated as set out in clause 27 of the Chapter,
commences on delivery of the notice of arbitration to the Parties; or


(b) agreed to be arbitrated as set out in clause 28 of the Chapter,
commences on the date of the arbitration agreement.


NOTICE OF ARBITRATION


15. A notice of arbitration under clause 27 of the Chapter must be in
writing and contain the following information:


(a) a statement of the subject matter or issues of the Disagreement;


(b) a requirement that the Disagreement be referred to arbitration;

(c) the remedy sought;
(d) the suggested number of arbitrators; and

(e) any preferred qualifications of the arbitrators.


16. A notice of arbitration under section 15 may contain the names of
any proposed arbitrators, including the information specified in section
17.


ARBITRATORS

17. In an arbitration:

(a) required to be arbitrated as set out in clause 27 of the Chapter,
there will be three arbitrators; and


(b) agreed to be arbitrated as set out in clause 28 of the Chapter,
there will be one arbitrator.

18. A person eligible for appointment as:

(a) a single arbitrator or as chair of an arbitral tribunal will be an
experienced arbitrator or arbitration counsel or have had training in
arbitral procedure; and


(b) as a single arbitrator or member of an arbitral panel:

i. will be independent and impartial, and

ii. preferably, will have knowledge of, or experience in, the subject
matter or issues of the Disagreement.


APPOINTMENT OF ARBITRATORS


19. A party proposing the name of an arbitrator to another party under
section 20 will also submit a copy of that person's resume and the
statement that person is required to make under section 26.


20. In an arbitration with a single arbitrator, if the parties fail to
agree on the arbitrator within 30 days after the commencement of the
arbitration, the appointment will be made by the Neutral Appointing
Authority, on the written request of a party that is copied to the other
parties.


21. In an arbitration with three arbitrators and two parties, each party
will appoint one arbitrator, and the two appointed arbitrators will
appoint the third arbitrator.

22. In the appointment procedure under section 21, if:

(a) a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt
of a request to do so from the other party; or


(b) the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator
within 30 days after the last of them was appointed


the appointment will be made by the Neutral Appointing Authority, on the
written request of a party that is copied to the other parties.


23. In an arbitration with three arbitrators and three parties, the
three parties will jointly appoint the three arbitrators.


24. In the arbitration procedure under section 23, if the three parties
fail to agree on the three arbitrators within 60 days after the
commencement of the arbitration, the appointments will be made by the
Neutral Appointing Authority, on the written request of a party copied
to the other parties.


25. In an arbitration procedure under sections 21 or 23, the three
arbitrators shall select a chair of the arbitral tribunal. In the event
that the three arbitrators are unable to agree on the selection of a
chair before the Pre-Hearing Meeting, they shall so advise the Neutral
Appointing Authority in writing and the Neutral Appointing Authority
will select a chair.


26. The Neutral Appointing Authority, in appointing an arbitrator or the
chair of an arbitral tribunal, must have due regard to:


(a) any qualifications required of the arbitrator as set out in section
18 or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties; and


(b) other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an
independent and impartial arbitrator or chair.


GROUNDS FOR CHALLENGE


27. When a person is approached in connection with possible appointment
as an arbitrator, that person must provide a written statement:


(a) disclosing any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable
doubts as to their independence or impartiality; or


(b) advising that the person is not aware of any circumstances of that
nature and committing to disclose them if they arise or become known at
a later date.


28. An arbitrator, from the time of appointment and throughout the
arbitral proceedings, must, without delay, disclose to the parties any
circumstances referred to in section 26 unless the parties have already
been informed of them.

29. An arbitrator may be challenged only if:

(a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the
arbitrator's independence or impartiality; or


(b) the arbitrator does not possess the qualifications set out in this
Appendix or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties.


30. A party may only challenge an arbitrator appointed by that party, or
in whose appointment that party has participated, for reasons of which
that party becomes aware after the appointment has been made.


31. A person who is a Tsawwassen Member, or related to a Tsawwassen
Member, may not be challenged under section 28 solely on the grounds of
that membership or relationship.


CHALLENGE PROCEDURE


32. A party who intends to challenge an arbitrator will send to the
arbitral tribunal a written statement of the reasons for the challenge
within 15 days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral
tribunal, or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in
section 28.


33. Unless the arbitrator challenged under section 31 withdraws from
office, or the other parties agree to the challenge, the arbitral
tribunal must decide on the challenge.


34. If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or
under the procedure under section 31 is not successful, the challenging
party, within 30 days after having received notice of the decision
rejecting the challenge, may request the Neutral Appointing Authority to
decide on the challenge.


35. The decision of the Neutral Appointing Authority under section 33 is
final and is not subject to appeal.


36. While a request under section 33 is pending, the arbitral tribunal,
including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitral
proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


(a) the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the
Neutral Appointing Authority is made would unduly prejudice the parties;
or

(b) the parties agree otherwise.

FAILURE OR IMPOSSIBILITY TO ACT


37. The mandate of an arbitrator terminates if the arbitrator becomes
unable at law, or as a practical matter, to perform the arbitrator's
functions, or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay.


38. If a controversy remains concerning any of the grounds referred to
in section 36, a party may request the Neutral Appointing Authority to
decide on the termination of the mandate.


TERMINATION OF MANDATE AND SUBSTITUTION OF ARBITRATOR


39. In addition to the circumstances referred to under sections 31 to
33, and 36, the mandate of an arbitrator terminates:


(a) if the arbitrator withdraws from office for any reason; or


(b) by, or pursuant to, agreement of the parties.


40. If the mandate of an arbitrator terminates, a replacement arbitrator
must be appointed under sections 19 to 25, as applicable.


41. If a single or chairing arbitrator is replaced, any hearings
previously held must be repeated.


42. If an arbitrator other than a single or chairing arbitrator is
replaced, any hearings previously held may be repeated at the discretion
of the arbitral tribunal.


43. An order or ruling of the arbitral tribunal made before the
replacement of an arbitrator under section 39 is not invalid solely
because there has been a change in the composition of the tribunal.



COMPETENCE OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL TO RULE ON ITS JURISDICTION



44. An arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction.


45. A plea that an arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction must be
raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; but a
party is not precluded from raising that plea by the fact that the party
has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator.


46. A plea that an arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its
authority must be made as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the
scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.


47. An arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in
section 44 or 45, admit a later plea if it considers the delay
justified.


48. An arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in section 44 or
45 either as a preliminary question or in the arbitral award.


49. If an arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has
jurisdiction, any party, within 15 days after having received notice of
that ruling, may request the Supreme Court to decide the matter.


50. A decision of the Supreme Court under section 48 is final and is not
subject to appeal.


51. While a request under section 48 is pending, an arbitral tribunal
may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


(a) the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the
Supreme Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or

(b) the parties agree otherwise.

INTERIM MEASURES ORDERED BY ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL


52. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may,
at the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of
protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of
the subject matter of the Disagreement.


53. The arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate
security in connection with a measure ordered under section 51.


EQUAL TREATMENT OF PARTIES


54. The parties must be treated with equality and each party must be
given a full opportunity to present its case.


DETERMINATION OF RULES OF PROCEDURE


55. Subject to this Appendix, the parties may agree on the procedure to
be followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings.


56. Failing any agreement under section 54, the arbitral tribunal,
subject to this Appendix, may conduct the arbitration in the manner it
considers appropriate.


57. The arbitral tribunal is not required to apply the legal rules of
evidence, and may determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality
and weight of any evidence.


58. The arbitral tribunal must make all reasonable efforts to conduct
the arbitral proceedings in the most efficient, expeditious and cost
effective manner as is appropriate in all the circumstances of the case.


59. The arbitral tribunal may extend or abridge a period of time:


(a) set in this Appendix, except the period specified in section 106; or

(b) established by the tribunal.

PRE-HEARING MEETING


60. Within 10 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the
tribunal must convene a pre-hearing meeting of the parties to reach
agreement and to make any necessary orders on:


(a) any procedural issues arising under this Appendix;


(b) selection of the arbitral tribunal's selected chair;


(c) the procedure to be followed in the arbitration;


(d) the time periods for taking steps in the arbitration;


(e) the scheduling of hearings or meetings, if any;


(f) any preliminary applications or objections; and


(g) any other matter which will assist the arbitration to proceed in an
efficient and expeditious manner.


61. The arbitral tribunal must prepare and distribute promptly to the
parties a written record of all the business transacted, and decisions
and orders made, at the pre-hearing meeting.


62. The pre-hearing meeting may be conducted by conference call.


PLACE OF ARBITRATION


63. The arbitration will take place in the Province of British Columbia.


64. Despite section 62, an arbitral tribunal may meet at any place it
considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing
witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of documents, goods
or other personal property, or for viewing physical locations.


LANGUAGE


65. If the arbitral tribunal determines that it was necessary or
reasonable for a party to incur the costs of translation of documents
and oral presentations in the circumstances of a particular
Disagreement, the arbitral tribunal, on application of a party, may
order that any of the costs of that translation be deemed to be costs of
the arbitration under clause 44 of the Chapter.


STATEMENTS OF CLAIM AND DEFENCE


66. Within 21 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the
applicant will deliver a written statement to all the Parties stating
the facts supporting its claim or position, the points at issue and the
relief or remedy sought.


67. Within 15 days after receipt of the applicant's statement, each
respondent will deliver a written statement to all the Parties stating
its defence or position in respect of those particulars.


68. Each party must attach to its statement a list of documents:

(a) upon which the party intends to rely; and

(b) which describes each document by kind, date, author, addressee and
subject matter.


69. The parties may amend or supplement their statements, including the
list of documents, and deliver counter-claims and defences to
counter-claims during the course of the arbitral proceedings, unless the
arbitral tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow the amendment,
supplement or additional pleadings having regard to:

(a) the delay in making it; and
(b) any prejudice suffered by the other parties.

70. The parties will deliver copies of all amended, supplemented or new
documents delivered under section 68 to all the Parties.


DISCLOSURE


71. The arbitral tribunal may order a party to produce, within a
specified time, any documents that:

(a) have not been listed under section 67;

(b) the party has in its care, custody or control; and


(c) the arbitral tribunal considers to be relevant.


72. Each party will allow the other party the necessary access at
reasonable times to inspect and take copies of all documents that the
former party has listed under section 67, or that the arbitral tribunal
has ordered to be produced under section 70.


73. The parties will prepare and send to the arbitral tribunal an agreed
statement of facts within the time specified by the arbitral tribunal.


74. Not later than 21 days before a hearing commences, each party will
give the other party:


(a) the name and address of any witness and a written summary of the
witness's evidence; and


(b) in the case of an expert witness, a written statement or report
prepared by the expert witness.


75. Not later than 15 days before a hearing commences, each party will
give to the other party and the arbitral tribunal an assembly of all
documents to be introduced at the hearing.


HEARINGS AND WRITTEN PROCEEDINGS


76. The arbitral tribunal must decide whether to hold hearings for the
presentation of evidence or for oral argument, or whether the
proceedings will be conducted on the basis of documents and other
materials.


77. Unless the parties have agreed that no hearings will be held, the
arbitral tribunal must hold hearings at an appropriate stage of the
proceedings, if so requested by a party.


78. The arbitral tribunal must give the parties sufficient advance
notice of any hearing and of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal for
the purpose of inspection of documents, goods or other property or
viewing any physical location.


79. All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or
applications made to, the arbitral tribunal by one party will be
communicated to the other party, and any expert report or evidentiary
document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its decision
must be communicated to the parties.


80. Unless ordered by the arbitral tribunal, all hearings and meetings
in arbitral proceedings, other than meetings of the arbitral tribunal,
are open to the public.


81. The arbitral tribunal must schedule hearings to be held on
consecutive days until completion.


82. All oral evidence must be taken in the presence of the arbitral
tribunal and all the parties unless a party is absent by default or has
waived the right to be present.


83. The arbitral tribunal may order any individual to be examined by the
arbitral tribunal under oath or on affirmation in relation to the
Disagreement and to produce before the arbitral tribunal all relevant
documents within the individual's care, custody or control.


84. The document assemblies delivered under section 74 will be deemed to
have been entered into evidence at the hearing without further proof and
without being read out at the hearing, but a party may challenge the
admissibility of any document so introduced.


85. If the arbitral tribunal considers it just and reasonable to do so,
the arbitral tribunal may permit a document that was not previously
listed under section 67, or produced as required under section 70 or 74,
to be introduced at the hearing, but the arbitral tribunal may take that
failure into account when fixing the costs to be awarded in the
arbitration.


86. If the arbitral tribunal permits the evidence of a witness to be
presented as a written statement, the other party may require that
witness to be made available for cross examination at the hearing.


87. The arbitral tribunal may order a witness to appear and give
evidence, and, in that event, the parties may cross examine that witness
and call evidence in rebuttal.


DEFAULT OF A PARTY


88. If, without showing sufficient cause, the applicant fails to
communicate its statement of claim in accordance with section 65, the
arbitral tribunal may terminate the proceedings.


89. If, without showing sufficient cause, a respondent fails to
communicate its statement of defence in accordance with section 66, the
arbitral tribunal must continue the proceedings without treating that
failure in itself as an admission of the applicant's allegations.


90. If, without showing sufficient cause, a party fails to appear at the
hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may
continue the proceedings and make the arbitral award on the evidence
before it.


91. Before terminating the proceedings under section 87, the arbitral
tribunal must give all respondents written notice providing an
opportunity to file a statement of claim in respect of the Disagreement
within a specified period of time.


EXPERT APPOINTED BY ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL


92. After consulting the parties, the arbitral tribunal may:


(a) appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be
determined by the arbitral tribunal; and


(b) for that purpose, require a party to give the expert any relevant
information or to produce, or to provide access to, any relevant
documents, goods or other personal property or land for inspection or
viewing.


93. The arbitral tribunal must give a copy of the expert's report to the
parties who must have an opportunity to reply to it.


94. If a party so requests, or if the arbitral tribunal considers it
necessary, the expert must, after delivery of a written or oral report,
participate in a hearing where the parties must have the opportunity to
cross examine the expert and to call any evidence in rebuttal.

95. The expert must, on the request of a party:

(a) make available to that party for examination all documents, goods or
other property in the expert's possession, and provided to the expert in
order to prepare a report; and


(b) provide that party with a list of all documents, goods or other
personal property or land not in the expert's possession but which were
provided to or given access to the expert, and a description of the
location of those documents, goods or other personal property or lands.


LAW APPLICABLE TO SUBSTANCE OF DISPUTE


96. An arbitral tribunal must decide the Disagreement in accordance with
the law.


97. If the parties have expressly authorized it to do so, an arbitral
tribunal may decide the Disagreement based upon equitable
considerations.


98. In all cases, an arbitral tribunal must make its decisions in
accordance with the spirit and intent of the Agreement.


99. Before a final arbitral award is made, an arbitral tribunal or a
party, with the agreement of the other parties, may refer a question of
law to the Supreme Court for a ruling.


100. A party may appeal a decision in the Supreme Court under section 98
to the British Columbia Court of Appeal with leave of the British
Columbia Court of Appeal. If the British Columbia Court of Appeal:


(a) refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the Supreme
Court under section 98; or


(b) hears an appeal from a ruling of the Supreme Court under section 98


the decision of the British Columbia Court of Appeal may not be appealed
to the Supreme Court of Canada.


101. While a request under section 98 is pending, the arbitral tribunal
may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:


(a) the costs occasioned by proceeding before the ruling of the Supreme
Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or

(b) the parties agree otherwise.

DECISION MAKING BY PANEL OF ARBITRATORS


102. In arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, any decision
of the arbitral tribunal must be made by a majority of all its members.


103. If there is no majority decision on a matter to be decided, the
decision of the chair of the tribunal is the decision of the tribunal.


104. Notwithstanding section 101, if authorized by the parties or all
the members of the arbitral tribunal, questions of procedure may be
decided by the chair of the tribunal.


SETTLEMENT


105. If, during arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the
Disagreement, the arbitral tribunal must terminate the proceedings and,
if requested by the parties, must record the settlement in the form of
an arbitral award on agreed terms.

106. An arbitral award on agreed terms:

(a) must be made in accordance with sections 107 to 109;

(b) must state that it is an arbitral award; and

(c) has the same status and effect as any other arbitral award on the
substance of the Disagreement.


FORM AND CONTENT OF ARBITRAL AWARD


107. An arbitral tribunal must make its final award as soon as possible
and, in any event, not later than 60 days after:

(a) the hearings have been closed; or
(b) the final submission has been made
whichever is the later date.

108. An arbitral award must be made in writing, and be signed by the
members of the arbitral tribunal.


109. An arbitral award must state the reasons upon which it is based,
unless:


(a) the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given; or


(b) the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 104 and
105.


110. A signed copy of an arbitral award must be delivered to all the
Parties by the arbitral tribunal.


111. At any time during the arbitral proceedings, an arbitral tribunal
may make an interim arbitral award on any matter with respect to which
it may make a final arbitral award.

112. An arbitral tribunal may award interest.

113. The costs of an arbitration are in the discretion of the arbitral
tribunal which, in making an order for costs, may:

(a) include as costs:

i. the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and expert witnesses,

ii. legal fees and expenses of the parties,

iii. any administration fees of a Neutral Appointing Authority, or


iv. any other expenses incurred in connection with the arbitral
proceedings; and

(b) specify:
i. the party entitled to costs,
ii. the party who will pay the costs,

iii. subject to section 113, the amount of costs or method of
determining that amount, and

iv. the manner in which the costs will be paid.

114. For purposes of section 112, an arbitral tribunal may award up to
50% of the reasonable and necessary legal fees and expenses that were
actually incurred by a party, and if the legal services were provided by
an employee or employees of that party, the arbitral tribunal may fix an
amount or determine an hourly rate to be used in the calculation of the
cost of those employee legal fees.


TERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS

115. An arbitral tribunal must close any hearings if:

(a) the parties advise they have no further evidence to give or
submissions to make; or


(b) the tribunal considers further hearings to be unnecessary or
inappropriate.


116. A final arbitral award, or an order of the arbitral tribunal under
section 116, terminates arbitral proceedings.


117. An arbitral tribunal must issue an order for the termination of the
arbitral proceedings if:


(a) the applicant withdraws its claim, unless the respondent objects to
the order and the arbitral tribunal recognizes a legitimate interest in
obtaining a final settlement of the Disagreement;


(b) the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings; or


(c) the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings
has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.


118. Subject to sections 118 to 123 and section 127, the mandate of an
arbitral tribunal terminates with the termination of the arbitral
proceedings.



CORRECTION AND INTERPRETATION OF AWARD; ADDITIONAL AWARD



119. Within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral award:


(a) a party may request the arbitral tribunal to correct in the tribunal
award any computation errors, any clerical or typographical errors or
any other errors of a similar nature; and


(b) a party may, if agreed by all the parties, request the arbitral
tribunal to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the
arbitral award.


120. If an arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 118
to be justified, it must make the correction or give the interpretation
within 30 days after receipt of the request and the interpretation will
form part of the arbitral award.


121. An arbitral tribunal, on its own initiative, may correct any error
of the type referred to in subsection 118 (a) within 30 days after the
date of the arbitral award.


122. A party may request, within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral
award, the arbitral tribunal to make an additional arbitral award
respecting claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from
the arbitral award.


123. If the arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 121
to be justified, it must make an additional arbitral award within 60
days.


124. Sections 107 to 109, and sections 111 to 113 apply to a correction
or interpretation of an arbitral award made under section 119 or 120, or
to an additional arbitral award made under section 122.


APPLICATION FOR SETTING ASIDE ARBITRAL AWARD


125. Subject to sections 129 and 131, an arbitral award may be set aside
by the Supreme Court, and no other court, only if a party making the
application establishes that:

(a) the party making the application:

i. was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of
the arbitral proceedings, or


ii. was otherwise unable to present its case or respond to the other
party's case;

(b) the arbitral award:

i. deals with a Disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within
the terms of the submission to arbitration, or


ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to
arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that part
of the arbitral award that contains decisions on matters not submitted
to arbitration may be set aside;


(c) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure
was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless that
agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Appendix from which
the parties cannot derogate, or, failing any agreement, was not in
accordance with this Appendix;


(d) the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or
fraudulent act; or

(e) the award was obtained by fraud.

126. An application for setting aside may not be made more than three
months:


(a) after the date on which the party making that application received
the arbitral award; or


(b) if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date
on which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.


127. An application to set aside an award on the ground that the
arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or
fraudulent act or that the award was obtained by fraud must be
commenced:


(a) within the period referred to in section 125; or


(b) within 30 days after the applicant discovers or ought to have
discovered the fraud or corrupt or fraudulent act

whichever is the longer period.

128. When asked to set aside an arbitral award, the Supreme Court may,
where it is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the
proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time
determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:

(a) to resume the arbitral proceedings; or

(b) to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion,
will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.


129. A Party that was not a participating Party in an arbitration must
be given notice of an application under section 124, and is entitled to
be a party to, and make representation on, the application.


APPEAL ON QUESTION OF LAW


130. A party may appeal an arbitral award to the Supreme Court, with
leave, on a question of law, which the Supreme Court must grant only if
it is satisfied that:


(a) the importance of the result of the arbitration to the parties
justifies the intervention of the court, and the determination of the
point of law may prevent a miscarriage of justice; or


(b) the point of law is of general or public importance.


131. An application for leave may not be made more than three months:


(a) after the date on which the party making the application received
the arbitral award; or


(b) if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date
on which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.


132. The Supreme Court may confirm, vary or set aside the arbitral award
or may remit the award to the arbitral tribunal with directions,
including the court's opinion on the question of law.


133. When asked to set aside an arbitral award the Supreme Court may,
where it is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the
proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time
determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:

(a) to resume the arbitral proceedings; or

(b) to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion,
will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.


134. A Party that was not a participating Party in an arbitration must
be given notice of an application under section 129 and is entitled to
be a party to, and make representation on the application.


135. A party may appeal a decision of the Supreme Court under section
131 to the British Columbia Court of Appeal with leave of the British
Columbia Court of Appeal.

136. If the British Columbia Court of Appeal:

(a) refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the Supreme
Court under section 131; or


(b) hears an appeal from a ruling of the Supreme Court under section
131,


the decision of the British Columbia Court of Appeal may not be appealed
to the Supreme Court of Canada.


137. No application may be made under section 129 in respect of:


(a) an arbitral award based upon equitable considerations as permitted
in section 96; or


(b) an arbitral award made in an arbitration commenced under clause 28
of the Chapter.


138. No application for leave may be brought under section 129 in
respect of a ruling made by the Supreme Court under section 98 if the
time for appealing that ruling has already expired.


RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT


139. An arbitral award must be recognized as binding and, upon
application to the Supreme Court, must be enforced subject to clause 136
and 137 of the Tsawwassen Government Chapter.


140. Unless the Supreme Court orders otherwise, the party relying on an
arbitral award or applying for its enforcement must supply the duly
authenticated original arbitral award or a duly certified copy of it.


GROUNDS FOR REFUSING ENFORCEMENT


141. Subject to sections 128 and 133, a Party that was not a
participating Party in an arbitration must not bring an application
under section 124 or 129 to set the award aside but may resist
enforcement of the award against it by bringing an application under
section 141.


142. On the application of a Party that was not a participating Party in
an arbitration, the Supreme Court may make an order refusing to enforce
against that Party an arbitral award made under this Appendix if that
Party establishes that:

(a) it was not given copies of:

i. the notice of arbitration or agreement to arbitrate, or


ii. the pleadings or all amendments and supplements to the pleadings;


(b) the arbitral tribunal refused to add the Party as a participating
Party to the arbitration under clause 31 of the Chapter;

(c) the arbitral award

i. deals with a Disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within
the terms of the submission to arbitration, or


ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration


provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can
be separated from those not so submitted, that part of the arbitral
award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may
be recognized and enforced;


(d) the arbitral award has not yet become binding on the parties or has
been set aside or suspended by a court;


(e) the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or
fraudulent act; or

(f) the award was obtained by fraud.


Contents
|



Sections 1 to 21

|



Schedule - Contents

|



Schedule - Preamble

|



Schedule - Chapter 1

|



Schedule - Chapter 2

|



Schedule - Chapter 3

|



Schedule - Chapter 4

|



Schedule - Chapter 5

|



Schedule - Chapter 6

|



Schedule - Chapter 7

|



Schedule - Chapter 8

|



Schedule - Chapter 9

|



Schedule - Chapter 10

|



Schedule - Chapter 11

|



Schedule - Chapter 12

|



Schedule - Chapter 13

|



Schedule - Chapter 14

|



Schedule - Chapter 15

|



Schedule - Chapter 16

|



Schedule - Chapter 17

|



Schedule - Chapter 18

|



Schedule - Chapter 19

|



Schedule - Chapter 20

|



Schedule - Chapter 21

|



Schedule - Chapter 22

|



Schedule - Chapter 23

|



Schedule - Chapter 24

|



Schedule - Chapter 25

|



Schedule - Appendices - Contents

|



Appendices - Introduction

|



Appendix A

|



Appendix B

|



Appendix C

|



Appendix D

|



Appendix E

|



Appendix F

|



Appendix G

|



Appendix H

|



Appendix I

|



Appendix J

|



Appendix K

|



Appendix L

|



Appendix M

|



Appendix N

|



Appendix O

|

Appendix P |


Appendix Q

|



Appendix R





