




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

Drilling and Production Regulation
B.C. Reg. 362/98






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Regulation

October 4, 2010



Section 100

September 24, 2010









Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 282/2010, effective October 4,
2010.





B.C. Reg. 362/98

Oil and Gas Commission


Deposited October 23, 1998

effective October 23, 1998





Petroleum and Natural Gas Act


Drilling and Production Regulation




Part 1 - Interpretation and Administration




Interpretation



1

In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
;


"annual gas allowable"
means, for any production period, the volume of gas determined by
multiplying the daily gas allowable by the number of days from
November 1 to October 31 inclusive;


"authorized commission employee"
, in a provision of this regulation, means an employee of the
commission who is designated in writing by the commission as an
authorized commission employee for the purposes of that provision,
and includes the commissioner and deputy commissioner;


"battery"
means a system or arrangement of tanks or other surface equipment
receiving the effluents of one or more wells prior to delivery to
market or other disposition, and may include equipment or devices
for separating the effluents into oil, gas or water and for
measurement;


"completed well"
means a well in which the productive formation is open to the well
bore with equipment installed in the well and at the wellhead so
that it is physically able to produce oil or gas;


"concurrent production"
means the simultaneous production of an oil accumulation and its
associated gas cap;


"daily gas allowable"
or
"DGA"
means the volume of gas determined by multiplying the unadjusted
daily gas allowable by any applicable adjustment factors;


"daily oil allowable"
or
"DOA"
means the volume of oil determined by multiplying the unadjusted
daily oil allowable by any applicable adjustment factors;


"daily production limit"
means a volume equal to 125% of the daily allowable;


"day"
means a period of 24 consecutive hours commencing at 8 o'clock in
the morning;


"discovery well"
means a well from which, in the opinion of an authorized
commission employee, sufficient information has been obtained to
determine that the well has encountered a previously undiscovered
pool;


"emergency planning zone"
means that area around a well or battery which could be exposed to
hazardous concentrations of hydrogen sulphide if a release of gas
occurs from the well or battery, the zone to be determined either


(a) by comparing the maximum potential hydrogen sulphide
release rate with Figures 1 and 2 of Schedule 1, or


(b) by approval of an authorized commission employee;


"experimental scheme"
means a scheme, approved by order of the commission under section
100 of the Act, using methods that are untried and unproved in the
particular application;


"facility"
means a gas processing plant, production facility or any other
surface equipment deemed to be a facility by an authorized
commission employee;


"gas"
means natural gas as defined in the Act;


"gas-oil ratio adjustment factor"
means that factor determined from the formula in Schedule 2 as
applied to the daily oil allowable to determine an allowed rate of
production;


"gas processing plant"
means a plant for the extraction from gas of hydrogen sulphide,
carbon dioxide, helium, ethane, natural gas liquids or other
substances but does not include a production facility;


"good engineering practice"
or
"GEP"
means the operation of a well or group of wells in a specified
area according to the provisions of section 101;


"handbook"
means the current edition of the British Columbia Oil and Gas
Handbook issued by the commission;


"initial oil production"
means the first production after the release of the drilling rig
and after the recovery of a volume of oil equal to the volume of
the completion oil;


"location"
means the land described in a permit, licence or lease;


"monthly oil allowable"
means, for any month, the volume of oil determined by multiplying
the daily oil allowable by the number of days in the month;


"oil"
means petroleum as defined in the Act;


"operator"
means the owner responsible to the commission for the drilling,
completion, production and abandonment of a well or test hole or
the general construction, operation and reclamation of any
production facility or plant covered by this regulation;


"overproduction of oil"
means, at the end of the test period, the amount by which oil
production during the test period exceeds the test period
allowable, and on any succeeding day means the amount by which the
actual production from the beginning of the production period
exceeds the production target;


"producing well"
means a completed well that has been placed on regular production;


"production facility"
means a battery, oil treater, pumping station, compressor station,
dehydrator, gas injection station, line heater, waste disposal
facility, waste processing facility, water disposal facility,
water injection station or, on designation of an authorized
commission employee, any other system of vessels and equipment
designed to accommodate production or disposal, or both production
and disposal, of well effluent products and byproducts, but does
not include a gas processing plant;


"production period"
means a period beginning on the day following the test period to
the following October 31 and thereafter means a 12 month period
ending on October 31 each year;


"production target"
means, at the end of any day, the sum of the daily oil allowables
for each day from the beginning of the production period plus any
underproduction or less any overproduction carried forward from
the test period or a preceding production period;


"project"
means a scheme by which a pool or part of a pool is produced by a
method involving the injection of fluid into that pool;


"proration battery"
means a battery that gathers from more than one well and where the
oil volume, water volume and gas volume produced from the wells
are measured at the battery outlet and are then allocated to each
well based on test results;


"retrograde condensate"
means, for the purpose of interpreting section 88, any hydrocarbon
fluid which exhibits an increased liquid volume fraction at
pressures below the dew point, yet will also begin to
significantly revapourize on some further reduction of pressure;


"test period"
means, commencing with the day of initial oil production, the
lesser of either 90 producing days or the time required to produce
the test period allowable;


"unadjusted daily gas allowable"
or
"UDGA"
means the greater of 60 000 m
3
or the volume of gas determined from reservoir parameters and
approved by an authorized commission employee, except for
concurrent producers where the volume of gas determined from
reservoir parameters may apply;


"unadjusted daily oil allowable"
or
"UDOA"
means the greater of the volume of oil derived from Schedule 3 or
the volume of oil determined from reservoir parameters and
approved by an authorized commission employee, except for
concurrent producers where the volume of oil determined from
reservoir parameters may apply;


"underproduction of oil"
means, at the end of the test period, the amount by which oil
production during the test period is less than the test period
allowable and, at the end of any succeeding day, means the amount
by which the actual production from the beginning of the
production period is less than the production target;


"workover"
means any operation that has changed the producing interval or
producing characteristics of a well by perforating, abandoning a
portion of the well, running casing or any major or recently
developed stimulation operation, but does not include routine
stimulation operations or the changing or replacement of
equipment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 1.]




Administration



2

(1)  This regulation must be administered by the commission.


(2)  Nothing in this regulation may be construed to limit or
abridge the powers conferred by the Act on the minister, division
head, commission or an authorized commission employee from making
orders or imposing conditions, restrictions or stipulations either
in the grant of an authorization or licence, or to take such
action under the Act as may be necessary or expedient, including
setting procedures and fixing standards of equipment.





Exemptions for particular sites and installations from specified
provisions



2.1

(1)  If an authorized commission employee considers it
appropriate in the circumstances of a particular case, he or she
may grant to an operator an exemption in writing, subject to any
conditions specified in the exemption, from the application of

(a) section 18 (1),
(b) section 34 (3),

(c) one or more of paragraphs (a) to (e) of section 35 (1),

(d) section 35 (4),
(e) section 36 (1),
(f) section 41 (4),

(g) one or more of paragraphs (a) to (h) of section 45 (2),


(h) one or more of paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 52 (1),

(i) section 58 (4),
(j) section 62,
(k) section 64,
(l) section 80 (2), or
(m) section 87 (3) and (6).

(2)  An authorized commission employee may grant to an
operator of a well an exemption in writing from the application of
section 47 (1) or (2), in relation to specified casing or
equipment, subject to any conditions specified in the exemption,
if the authorized commission employee is satisfied that

(a) the proper control of the well, or

(b) the prevention of inter-zonal communication,


as the case may be, will be maintained by means other than the use
of the specified casing or equipment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 2.]




Repealed



3–4

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 3.]




Part 2 - Well Position, Spacing and Target Areas




Position of wells



5

(1)  A well must not be drilled within 80 m of


(a) the right of way or easement of any road allowance or
public utility,


(b) a permanent building, installation or works,

(c) a place of public concourse, or
(d) a reservation for national defence,

except only where special circumstances exist that, in the opinion
of an authorized commission employee, justify the granting of
written permission to drill a well at a specified position.


(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 4 (a).]


(3)  The holder of a well authorization must not drill a well
within 100 m of the normal high water mark of a body of water or
200 m from a water well without the written approval of an
authorized commission employee.

(4)  If a well or facility is

(a) closer than 100 m to the normal high water mark of a body
of water, or


(b) 100 m or more from the normal high water mark of a body
of water, but situated so that, given the topography or other
relevant factors, an authorized commission employee considers that
it is likely that an uncontrolled flow of oil, gas, brine or
another fluid may reach the water,

the operator must do both of the following:

(c) install equipment in the well to prevent the escape of
fluids from the well;


(d) construct surface facilities to contain escaping fluids.


(5) and (6)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 4 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 4.]




Drilling near mine workings and underground storage



6

A well to be drilled within 3 km of any subsurface mine workings
or underground storage facilities must not be commenced except
with the approval of the commissioner or deputy commissioner and,
if applicable, the Chief Inspector of Mines.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 5.]




Position of test holes



7

(1)  A test hole must not be drilled within

(a) 10 m of a survey monument,
(b) 20 m of a driveway or gateway,

(c) 80 m of a residence, school, church or other public
building, or

(d) 200 m of a water well.

(2)  If a test hole is drilled in the vicinity of any gas,
oil or water pipeline, electric cable, transmission line or
utility, every reasonable precaution must be taken to ensure that
the pipeline, electric cable or transmission line or utility is
not damaged or its use interrupted.





Quarter units



8

A unit, as defined in the Act, is subdivided for the purpose of
well spacing into 4 approximately equal parts to be designated as
quarter units as follows:


(a) within the Peace River Block the quarter units correspond
to legal subdivisions as if the area were surveyed;


(b) in areas other than within the Peace River Block the
quarter units are formed by joining the midpoints of the opposite
sides of a unit;


(c) quarter units are designated as follows:;




c
d


b
a







Spacing and target areas for oil wells



9

(1)  The normal spacing area for an oil well is


(a) a quarter section if the well is located within the Peace
River Block, or


(b) a unit if the well is located within any other area
within British Columbia.


(2)  The target area for an oil well in a normal spacing area
at any depth is the area inside but not nearer than 100 m to the
sides of the spacing area.


(3)  If the boundary of a location does not coincide with the
side of a normal oil well spacing area, the oil well target area
must have sides not nearer than 100 m to the boundary.


(4)  Despite subsection (5), on a location that contains more
than one normal spacing area, one oil well may be completed in
each normal spacing area if each well is located not nearer than
100 m to the boundary of the location.


(5)  The UDOA of an oil well completed outside of the target
area must be subject to an off-target penalty factor equal to 12
times the product of the shortest distances from the closest point
of the well bore within the productive zone to the 2 nearest sides
of the normal spacing area, divided by the area of the spacing
area.


(6)  The commissioner and deputy commissioner are designated
as employees of the commission who may, in relation to an oil well
and subject to conditions, if any, that may be specified, exempt
the persons having an interest in that oil well from some or all
of the provisions of subsections (1) and (5).


(7)  Subsection (5) does not apply to the discovery well of
an oil pool.





Spacing and target areas for gas wells



10

(1)  The normal spacing area for a gas well is


(a) a surveyed section, if the well is located within the
Peace River Block, or


(b) 4 units comprising an area of 2 units by 2 units based on
an initial 4 unit area centered on a corner common to any 4 grid
blocks, as defined in the Act, if the well is located outside the
Peace River Block.


(2)  The target area for a gas well in a normal spacing area
at any depth is the area inside but not nearer than 250 m to the
sides of the spacing area.


(3)  If the boundary of a location does not coincide with the
side of a normal spacing area, the target area must be the target
area of a normal spacing area or the appropriate spacing area of
other than normal spacing, specified by regulation of the minister
under section 65.1 (1) of the Act or specified or approved by
order of the commission under section 65.1 (2) of the Act.


(4)  If a location contains more than one normal spacing
area, one gas well may be completed in each normal spacing area
and subsection (5) does not apply, provided each well is located
not nearer than 250 m to the boundary of the location.


(5)  The UDGA of a gas well completed outside of the gas well
target area must be subject to an off-target penalty factor equal
to 8 times the product of the shortest distances from the closest
point of the well bore within the productive zone to the 2 nearest
sides of the normal spacing area, divided by the area of the
spacing area.


(6)  The commissioner and deputy commissioner are designated
as employees of the commission who may, in relation to an
off-target gas well and subject to conditions, if any, that they
may specify, exempt the persons having an interest in that gas
well from reduction under subsection (5) of the daily gas
allowable.


(7)  Subsection (5) does not apply to the discovery well of a
gas pool.

[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 1.]




Multi-zone spacing



11

If there is more than one productive zone, an authorized
commission employee may consider the productive zones separately
for the purpose of well spacing.





Wells drilled prior to this regulation



12

The off target factor for any well drilled and completed under the
provisions of regulations in force prior to May 2, 1958, must be
unity.




Part 3 - Well Authorizations




Well names



13

(1)  The well name must clearly identify


(a) the operator by name or abbreviation acceptable to an
authorized commission employee,

(b) the field, and
(c) the surface site of the well

(i)  by legal subdivision, section, township and range for
wells in the Peace River Block, or


(ii)  by quarter unit, unit, block and NTS map sheet number
for wells outside the Peace River Block,


in that order, indicated by letters and numbers and separated by
hyphens.


(2)  If it is proposed to drill a well on the same legal
subdivision or quarter unit as an earlier well, a letter must
prefix the legal subdivision or unit to indicate the order in
which the wells are approved, using the letter "A" for the second
well, the letter "B" for the third well and so forth.


(3)  For each well name change by an operator, an application
must be submitted to the commission by the operator in the form
and including the information required by the commission.


(4)  If there is compliance with section 16, the fee to
change a well name that is required under the Petroleum and
Natural Gas General Regulation does not apply.


(5)  If the ownership of a well is changed, the application
to change the well name must be accompanied by proof of the change
in ownership.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 6.]




Well classifications



14

(1)  A well or portion of a well may be classified as a
development well at the time the well authorization is issued or
amended if it is located in a spacing area that is in or
contiguous to an oil or gas pool designated under section 97 (b)
of the Act and the objective formation is in the same geological
formation as the designated oil or gas pool.


(2)  A well or portion of a well may be classified as an
exploratory outpost at the time the well authorization is issued
or amended if the well or portion of the well


(a) is located at a distance less than 7 km from an oil or
gas pool designated under section 97 (b) of the Act, and

(b) does not conform to subsection (1).

(3)  A well may be classified as an exploratory wildcat at
the time the well authorization is issued or amended if it is
located not nearer than 7 km to an oil or gas pool designated
under section 97 (b) of the Act.


(4)  If a well has been drilled, the well or a portion of it,
on application by the operator prior to the release of information
pursuant to section 57 (4), may be reclassified as an exploratory
wildcat and designated as a discovery well if, in the opinion of
an authorized commission employee, the drilling of the well or the
portion of the well resulted in the discovery of a new oil or gas
pool.


(5)  Despite section 57, information pertaining to the
designation of a new oil or gas pool may be kept confidential by
the commission until the later of


(a) the expiry date of the confidentiality period under
section 57 for the discovery well designated under subsection (4),
and


(b) the expiry date of the period specified under section 57
(4).

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 6.]




Well authorizations



15

(1)  An application for a well authorization must be
submitted to the commission by the operator in the form and
including the information required by the commission.


(2)  The operator of a well must prominently display at the
well site during drilling operations the well authorization for
the well and any amendments to it.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 6.]




Transfer of well authorizations and test hole authorizations



16

An application to transfer a well authorization or test hole
authorization must be submitted to the commission by the operator,
in the form and including the information required by the
commission.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 6.]




Amendments of well authorizations and test hole authorizations



17

An operator of a well or test hole must not make a change to a
program of drilling operations for the well or test hole unless


(a) the operator applies to the commission for approval to
amend the well authorization or test hole authorization to reflect
the change, and

(b) the application is approved.
[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 6.]




Test hole authorizations and requirements



18

(1)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
test hole must ensure that the test hole is not drilled deeper
than 600 m.


(2)  An application for a test hole authorization must be
submitted to the commission by the operator of the test hole in
the form and including the information required by the commission.


(3)  The operator of a test hole must prominently display at
the test hole site during drilling operations the test hole
authorization and any amendments to it.


(4) and (5)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 7 (a).]



[Note: original subsections (4) and (5) were repealed, (6) to
(12) were renumbered (4) to (10), (13) was repealed and (14) was
renumbered (11), by B.C. Reg. 390/2004.]



(4)  An authorized commission employee may attach
requirements or conditions to a test hole authorization, including
prescribing equipment, procedures, logs, tests, analyses or the
submission of information to the commission.


(5)  Two copies of any logs, and of the reports resulting
from all tests and analyses, must be submitted to the commission
within 30 days of the operation, test or analysis being completed.


(6)  An authorized commission employee may specify which
portions of core or samples taken from a test hole must be shipped
to the commission, carriage prepaid, and which portions may be
destroyed or retained by the operator of the test hole.


(7)  In this section, "information obtained from a test hole"
includes but is not limited to any unprocessed or processed log
data, cores, samples, analyses, descriptions, drilling
information, geological information, test information and reports.


(8)  Subject to subsections (11) to (14), information
obtained from a test hole that is received by the commission in
the course of the administration of the Act must be held
confidential by the commission.


(9)  All information obtained from a test hole must be
released from confidential status 3 years after the date of
release of the drilling rig for the test hole.


(10)  The expected total depth at the time of approval of the
test hole authorization, position, ground elevation, drilling
status and total depth of a test hole must be made available to
the public during normal business hours.


(11)  Information obtained from a test hole may be released
from confidential status


(a) if the commissioner or deputy commissioner is satisfied
that the holder of the test hole authorization no longer carries
on activities that are pertinent to the information obtained from
the test hole, or


(b) with the concurrence of the holder of the test hole
authorization.


(13)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 7 (e).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 2; 390/2004, s. 7.]




Part 4 - Well Operations



Division 1 - General




Notification of commencement of drilling



19

The commission must be notified within 24 hours of the
commencement of the drilling of a well.




Division 2 - Blowout Prevention During Drilling




Equipment



20

(0.1)  An operator must ensure that the requirements of this
section are met in relation to a well for which the operator is
responsible.


(1)  Blowout prevention equipment is classified as follows:


(a) Class A equipment is equipment to be used from the depth
of the surface casing to 1 850 m;


(b) Class B equipment is equipment to be used from a depth of
1 850 m to 3 000 m;


(c) Class C equipment is equipment to be used from a depth of
3 000 m to 5 500 m;


(d) Class D equipment is equipment to be used from a depth of
5 500 m and greater.


(2)  The minimum pressure rating of blowout prevention
equipment must be:

(a) for Class A equipment, 14 000 kPa;
(b) for Class B equipment, 21 000 kPa;
(c) for Class C equipment, 34 000 kPa;
(d) for Class D equipment, 70 000 kPa.

(3)  When a well is being drilled, blowout prevention
equipment must be continuously maintained so that the equipment


(a) consists of a minimum of one annular preventer and 2 or
more ram preventers, the latter to be comprised of a blank ram and
one or more rams to close off around drill pipe, tubing or casing
being used in the well, and


(b) is connected to a casing bowl that is equipped with


(i)  an upper flange that is an integral part of the casing
bowl,


(ii)  at least one side outlet that is flanged or studded for
wells in Classes B, C and D, and

(iii)  at least one valve.
(4)  The blowout prevention equipment must

(a) include steel lines or approved high pressure hoses
connected to the blowout preventer assembly, one or more for
bleeding off pressure and one or more for killing the well,


(b) consist of components having a working pressure equal to
that of the blowout preventers, except that part of the bleed off
line or lines located downstream from the last control valve on
the choke manifold,


(c) have the valve hand wheel assembly in place and securely
attached to the valve stem on all valves in the blowout prevention
system, and


(d) conform to the specifications set out in the handbook.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 8.]




Ancillary equipment requirements



21

(1)  The bleed off lines referred to in section 20 (4) must
be


(a) a minimum nominal 76 mm diameter of uniform bore,


(b) connected only by weld neck flanges that are
perpendicular to the line to which they are attached,


(c) equipped with a gauge connection where well pressures may
be measured,

(d) connected to
(i)  a choke manifold, and

(ii)  a mud tank through a mud gas separator, and


(e) if the lines are downstream of the choke manifold,
securely held down and terminated in a slightly downward direction
into an earthen pit.


(2)  The choke manifold referred to in subsection (1) (d) (i)
must be

(a) located

(i)  a minimum distance of 20 m from the well bore, or


(ii)  in a satisfactory position outside the substructure,
isolated from the mud tank,

(b) designed

(i)  to conform with Class A, B, C or D equipment, and


(ii)  to permit the flow to be directed through a full
opening line or through either of the 2 lines each containing an
adjustable choke,


(c) equipped with accurate metric pressure gauges to provide
drill pipe and casing pressures at the choke manifold once the
surface casing is cemented in place, and


(d) enclosed by a suitable housing, with adequate heat to
prevent freezing.


(3)  The mud gas separator referred to in subsection (1) (d)
(ii) must


(a) be of a design to ensure personnel safety and adequate
mud gas separation, and


(b) be connected to a securely fastened inlet line and outlet
line, and the outlet line must


(i)  be at least one size larger than the inlet line, and


(ii)  terminate in an earthen pit, or flare pit, 50 m from
the well.


(4)  The earthen pit referred to in subsection (1) (e) must


(a) be excavated to a depth of not less than 2 m,


(b) have side and back walls rising not less than 2 m above
ground level,


(c) be constructed to resist the erosion of a high pressure
flow of gas or liquid, and

(d) be shaped to contain any liquids.

(5)  At all times when a well is being drilled


(a) a valve must be installed in the kelly assembly,


(b) a full opening stabbing valve that can be connected to
the drill pipe, drill collars or tubing in the well and a device
capable of stopping any back flow up the drill string must be
provided, and


(c) all choke manifold and bleed off lines must

(i)  be securely tied down, and

(ii)  contain only pipe that is straight or with 1.57 radian
bends (90°) and which is constructed of flanged, studded or welded
tees, blank flanged or bull plugged on fluid turns.


(6)  The full opening stabbing valve referred to in
subsection (5) (b) must


(a) be provided with removable handles to facilitate handling
by 2 persons,


(b) be stored in the control centre (dog house) or other
satisfactory location so as to be readily available for use with
the valve in the open position, and


(c) have the valve closing handle attached to the valve
holding stand.





Controls



22

(1)  If hydraulically operated blowout preventers are
installed, a clearly marked operating control indicating direction
of closure for the annular blowout preventer must be located at
least 15 m from the well.


(2)  The control valve regulating the closure of the annular
preventer under subsection (1) must be free of any valve locking
device.


(3)  All manual controls for locking of manual ram type
blowout preventers must be installed or readily accessible in the
immediate area.


(4)  If ram type blowout preventers are used at a cased well,
the controls must be attached and be at least 5 m from the well.


(5)  All blowout preventers must be hydraulically operated
and connected to an accumulator system.


(6)  The accumulator system required by subsection (5) must
be


(a) installed and operated in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications,


(b) connected to the blowout preventers with lines of
equivalent working pressure to the system, and within 5 m of the
well the lines must be of steel construction unless completely
sheathed with adequate fire resistant sleeving,


(c) capable of providing, without recharging, fluid of
sufficient volume and pressure to close the annular preventer,
close a ram preventer, open the hydraulically operated valve and
retain a pressure of 8 400 kPa on the accumulator system,


(d) recharged by a pressure controlled pump capable of
recovering within 5 minutes the accumulator pressure drop
resulting from the operation in paragraph (c),


(e) capable of closing any ram type preventer within 30
seconds,


(f) capable of closing the annular preventer within 60
seconds, and


(g) equipped with readily accessible fittings and gauge to
determine the precharge pressure of each nitrogen container.


(7)  If nitrogen cylinders are used as an emergency pressure
source, sufficient usable nitrogen must be available at a minimum
pressure of 8 400 kPa to fully close the annular preventer and
pipe rams and open the hydraulically operated valve.





Testing of blowout prevention equipment



23

(1)  Blowout equipment must be shop serviced and shop tested
to its working pressure at least once every 3 years and the test
data and maintenance performed must be recorded and made available
on request to an authorized commission employee.


(2)  Prior to drilling out cement from any string of casing,
each unit of the blowout prevention equipment must be pressure
tested, first to a pressure of 1 000 kPa and then to at least 7
000 kPa, each for a period of 10 minutes, and until the equipment
passes the test, further drilling must not proceed.


(3)  Casing exposed to drill pipe wear must be tested every
30 days to determine its adequacy for pressure control by either


(a) running a casing inspection log to determine casing wear,
or


(b) pressure testing to a pressure not greater than 50% of
the burst pressure of the weakest section of the casing, or to the
working pressure of the blowout preventers, whichever is less.


(4)  While a well is being drilled or tested during drilling
operations


(a) the appropriate blowout prevention equipment must be
operated daily and if found to be defective it must be made
serviceable before operations are resumed,


(b) at least one person must be on tour at the well site who


(i)  is trained in blowout prevention, and


(ii)  has a first line supervisor certificate issued within
the past 3 years by the Petroleum Industry Training Service,


and evidence of his or her qualifications must be made available
to an authorized commission employee on request,


(c) the rig manager (tool push) and the operator's
representative at the well site must


(i)  be trained in blowout prevention, and


(ii)  possess a second line supervisor certificate issued
within the past 2 years by the Petroleum Industry Training
Service,


and a copy of their qualifications must be made available to an
authorized commission employee on request,


(d) the operator's representative must confirm with the
commission that he or she possesses a valid second line supervisor
certificate by a visit to the office or by phone prior to assuming
first responsibility at a well site in British Columbia, or as
soon as possible thereafter,


(e) the Canadian Association of Oilwell Drilling Contractors
(C.A.O.D.C.) placard or the operator's Well Control Procedures
placard must be prominently displayed in the control centre (dog
house) and must be maintained to be legible at all times, and


(f) a diagram of the trip tank and the trip tank volume
indicator must be prominently displayed in the control centre (dog
house).


(5)  The trip tank volume indicator referred to in subsection
(4) (f) must specify the trip tank volume and each volume
graduation on the scale.


(6)  Full particulars of all tests must be reported in the
daily report, and in the case of a pressure test the pressure
applied and the duration of the test must be recorded.





Operation of equipment



24

(1)  The rig crew must have an adequate understanding of, and
be able to operate, the blowout prevention equipment and the
contractor or rig crew must


(a) test the operation and effectiveness of the blowout
prevention equipment when requested by an authorized commission
employee, and


(b) record drills performed in accordance with paragraph (a)
in the daily drilling reports.


(2)  Each rig crew must perform a blowout prevention drill
every 7 days, or as conditions permit in accordance with the Well
Control Procedure placard issued by the Canadian Association of
Oilwell Drilling Contractors or as outlined by the Petroleum
Industry Training Service, Blowout Prevention Manual.


(3)  Blowout prevention equipment must be maintained so that
its operation will not be impaired by adverse weather conditions.

(4)  Subject to subsection (5),

(a) if a mud tank is in use, a device must be installed and
maintained visible to the driller's position warning of a change
of the fluid level in the mud tank or of an imbalance in the
fluids entering and returning from the well, and the device must
be either electrically, pneumatically, hydraulically or
mechanically operated and maintained in working order at all
times,


(b) the drilling mud system must be equipped with a trip tank
with a volume of approximately 5 m
3
to accurately measure the fluid required to fill the hole while
pulling pipe from the well, and the trip tank must


(i)  be constructed so that the cumulative volume can be
reliably and repeatedly read to an accuracy of 0.15 m
3
(150 litre) from the driller's position,

(ii)  be tied into the mud return line,

(iii)  be equipped so that drilling fluid can be transferred
into and out of the trip tank, and


(iv)  be located in or within 10 m of the shale shaker end of
the mud tank and be readily accessible to afford visual observance
of the fluid level, and


(c) the operator, while pulling pipe from a well, must ensure
that


(i)  the hole is filled with drilling fluid at such frequency
as required so that the fluid level in the well bore does not fall
below a depth of 30 m, and


(ii)  a permanent record of volumes that are required to fill
the hole is retained and submitted as part of the daily drilling
reports.


(5)  If it is impracticable or unsafe to follow a procedure
or precaution required by subsection (4), an equivalent procedure
or precaution may be adopted to ensure safe operation.




Division 3 - Well Servicing Blowout Prevention




Equipment



25

(1)  For the purpose of well servicing, blowout prevention
equipment must be classified as follows:


(a) Class A is a well where the minimum pressure rating of
the production casing flange is less than or equal to 21 000 kPa
and the hydrogen sulphide content in a representative sample of
the gas is less than 10 moles per kilomole;


(b) Class B is a well where the minimum pressure rating of
the production casing flange is

(i)  greater than 21 000 kPa, or

(ii)  less than or equal to 21 000 kPa and the hydrogen
sulphide content in a representative sample of the gas is 10 moles
per kilomole or greater;


(c) Class C is a special sour well as determined by the
commission in the handbook.


(2)  At all times while a well is being completed, serviced
or reconditioned

(a) the well must be under control,

(b) blowout prevention equipment must be installed and
maintained to enable the shutoff of any flow from the well
regardless of the type or diameter of tools or equipment in the
well,


(c) the blowout prevention equipment installed must be in
accordance with the well classification set out in subsection (1)
and with the specifications set out in the handbook,


(d) the blowout prevention equipment must have a pressure
rating equal to or greater than the pressure rating of the
production casing flange or the formation pressure, whichever is
the lesser, and


(e) hydraulic ram type blowout preventers which are not
equipped with an automatic ram locking device must have hand
wheels available.





Accumulator systems



26

(1)  All blowout preventers must be hydraulically operated
and connected to an accumulator system.


(2)  The accumulator system required by subsection (1) must
be


(a) installed and operated in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications,


(b) connected to the blowout preventers with lines of working
pressure equal to the working pressure of the system, and within 5
metres of the well the lines must be of steel construction unless
completely sheathed with adequate fire resistant sleeving,


(c) capable of providing, without recharging, fluid of
sufficient volume and pressure to effect full closure of all
preventers, and to retain a pressure of 8 400 kPa on the
accumulator system,


(d) recharged by a pressure controlled pump capable of
recovering within 5 minutes the accumulator pressure drop
resulting from full closure of all preventers,


(e) capable of closing any ram type preventer within 30
seconds,


(f) capable of closing the annular preventer within 60
seconds, and


(g) equipped with readily accessible fittings and gauges to
determine the precharge pressure.


(3)  The accumulator system must be connected to a nitrogen
supply capable of closing all of the blowout preventers installed
on the well.


(4)  The nitrogen supply required under subsection (3) must


(a) be capable of providing sufficient volume and pressure to
effect full closure of all preventers and to retain a minimum
pressure of 8 400 kPa, and


(b) have a gauge installed, or readily available for
installation, to determine the pressure of each nitrogen
container.


(5)  For wells in Class A, the blowout prevention system


(a) may utilize the rig hydraulic system to recharge the
accumulator, and


(b) must have operating controls for each preventer in a
readily accessible location near the operator's position, and an
additional set of controls located at a distance from the well of
not less than 5 meters.


(6)  For wells in Class B and C, the blowout prevention
system must have


(a) an independent accumulator system with operating controls
for each preventer located at least 25 m from the well, shielded
or housed to protect the operator from flow from the well,


(b) an additional set of controls in a readily accessible
location near the operator's position, and

(c) working spools with flanged outlets.




Line requirements



27

(1)  For wells in Class A and B, the blowout prevention
system must have 2 lines, one for bleeding off pressure and one
for killing the well, which must


(a) be either steel or flexible hose sheathed to provide
adequate fire resistant rating,


(b) be valved and have a working pressure equal to or greater
than that required for the blowout prevention equipment described
in section 25 (2) (c),


(c) have one line connected to the rig pump and one line
connected to the tank,


(d) have one line connected to an outlet below the blowout
preventers and the necessary equipment to readily connect the
second line to the tubing,

(e) be at least 50 mm nominal diameter, and
(f) be securely tied down.

(2)  A full opening ball valve which can be attached to the
tubing or other pipe in the well must be maintained in a readily
accessible location on the service rig in the open position and
must have an interval diameter equal to or greater than the
smallest restriction inside the tubing or casing.





Testing of blowout prevention equipment



28

(1)  Before commencing operations at a well, each blowout
preventer and the full opening stabbing valve must be tested for
10 minutes to 1 000 kPa first and to a minimum of 7 000 kPa or the
formation pressure, whichever is less.


(2)  All blowout prevention equipment must be mechanically
tested daily and any equipment found defective must be made
serviceable before operations are resumed.


(3)  All tests must be reported in the servicing log book
and, in the case of a pressure test, the report must state the
blowout preventer tested, the test duration and the test pressure
observed at the start and finish of each test.


(4)  At least once every 3 years all blowout preventers must
be shop serviced and shop tested to their working pressure and the
test data and the maintenance performed must be recorded and made
available to an authorized commission employee on request.





Personnel qualifications



29

(1)  The following requirements must be complied with at all
times while a well is being completed, serviced or reconditioned:


(a) the following people must possess a Well Service Blowout
Prevention Certificate issued within the last 5 years by the
Petroleum Industry Training Service:

(i)  the driller on tour;
(ii)  the rig manager (tool push);
(iii)  the operator's representative;

(b) blowout prevention drills must be performed by each rig
crew every 7 days or once per well, whichever is more frequent;


(c) drills performed in accordance with paragraph (b) must be
recorded in the servicing log book.


(2)  Evidence of the qualifications of any person referred to
in subsection (1) (a) (i) or (iii) must be made available to an
authorized commission employee on request.


(3)  The rig crew must have an adequate understanding of, and
be able to operate, the blowout prevention equipment and, when
requested by an authorized commission employee, the contractor or
rig crew must


(a) test the operation and effectiveness of the blowout
prevention equipment, and


(b) perform a blowout prevention drill in accordance with the
Well Control Procedure placard issued by the Canadian Association
of Oil Well Drilling Contractors or as outlined by the Petroleum
Industry Training Service, Blowout Prevention Manual.





Other requirements



30

The operator of a well must ensure that


(a) the location of the equipment used at the well site is
spaced at the minimum distance specified in the handbook, and


(b) a service rig used at the well site has an operable horn
on the drilling control panel for sounding alerts.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 9.]




Class C special sour wells



31

(1)  Blowout preventers used on Class C special sour wells
must conform to the following requirements:


(a) all internal metallic blowout preventer components which
may be exposed to sour effluent must be certified as being
manufactured from materials meeting the requirements of the
National Association of Corrosion Engineers;


(b) the pressure rating of each blowout preventer must be
equal to or greater than that of the production casing flange or
the formation pressure, whichever is the lesser;


(c) on special sour wells, blowout preventers must not be
used for any other function except well control;


(d) blowout preventer equipment must be fully assembled and
tested prior to installation on the well;


(e) all blowout preventer components must be pressure tested
to 1 000 kPa and to a minimum of 1.2 times the well's shut-in
tubing pressure for 10 minutes each and must perform without
leakage;


(f) all tests must be documented, recorded and filed for
future reference;


(g) assembly on site must be supervised by qualified
personnel with advice, if required, solicited from the component
supplier;


(h) all blowout preventer tests must be witnessed by the
operator and contractor representatives;


(i) if any component of the blowout preventer is disassembled
(e.g. opening of ram gates), a full blowout preventer test is
required;


(j) following initial inspection, blowout preventer
components are to be pressure tested weekly to a maximum
anticipated working pressure if operations permit;


(k) the primary well control components, with the exception
of the shear ram, must be operated daily, provided it is
operationally safe to do so and all operating tests and blowout
preventer drills must be recorded on the tour sheet;


(l) blowout preventer systems must be shop serviced and
overhauled every 3 years.


(2)  All contractors supplying blowout preventer equipment
must maintain documentation pertaining to equipment material
certification, testing, repair and maintenance, and this data must
be available at the operating location for review by the operating
company and an authorized commission employee.


(3)  If the records required under subsection (2) are not
available for the equipment, the equipment must be recertified
prior to use, and the recertification must be acceptable to the
operating company and an authorized commission employee.

(4)  Shear rams are required if

(a) operations complexity and residential density indicate a
high level risk factor during a completion or workover, or


(b) ordered by an authorized commission employee.


(5)  If under subsection (4) shear rams are required, they
must be arranged as outlined in the handbook.


(6)  Alternatively, a shear/blind ram, as shown in the
handbook, may be used in place of a conventional blind ram and,
when used, a ram blanking tool must be available to provide a back
up to the sealing capabilities of the blind ram.


(7)  If a shear ram is used (in addition to a Class B blowout
preventer), the accumulator must be sized to either operate the
Class B blowout preventer in accordance with section 29 or shear
the completion string without recharge, whichever is the greater
volume.


(8)  If a shear/blind ram is used (in addition to a Class B
blowout preventer), the accumulator must be sized to operate the
Class B blowout preventer in accordance with section 29 and must
be sized to provide sufficient power fluid to shear the completion
string without recharge.


(9)  The nitrogen supply or the system back up must be
capable of closing all blowout preventers including the
shear/blind ram and shear pipe in use.


(10)  If a shear ram is used (in addition to a full Class B
blowout preventer), the control should be solely at the master
(accumulator) panel to avoid accidental shear ram closure and, if
the shear ram replaces the blind ram, the remote panel must
operate the ram.


(11)  In addition to the standard well control procedures
which may be posted in the dog house, the details of shear ram
operation must be posted where shear rams are used.


(12)  Flanged blowout preventer working spools with 2 flanged
side outlets are required on critical sour wells.

(13)  Working spools must include

(a) outlets with full opening gate valves to serve as primary
control,


(b) a kill side with a primary valve and a check valve, while
the bleed off line must have a primary and a secondary (backup)
valve, and


(c) valves with a working pressure rating equal to or greater
than the blowout preventer.


(14)  The stabbing valve must conform to the following
requirements:


(a) it must be a National Association of Corrosion Engineers
full opening valve with the proper threads to mate to the
completion string thread in use;


(b) the valve must have a pressure rating equal to or greater
than the blowout preventer pressure rating;


(c) extended bales must be used to allow string weight to be
borne by the tubing, rather than the stabbing valve;


(d) the valve must not be used as a working valve;


(e) the stabbing valve must be stored in an area immediately
accessible to the wellbore, left in the open position, and kept
clean, properly maintained, ice free and ready for use.


(15)  The service rig pump must not be used as a well control
manifold.


(16)  A sour service separator/flare stack system, including
appropriate manifolding, must be used to process sour well
effluent.


(17)  The heat source must be suitable for the electrical
area classification in which it is used.


(18)  Lighting must be adequate to ensure complete visibility
of the well control system.





Personnel at special sour wells



32

(1)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 10.]


(2)  Every representative, rig manager and driller must have
the following qualifications:


(a) H
2
S rescue training;


(b) well service blowout prevention certification.


(3)  While servicing operations are in progress, the
representative must be at the work site and, in the case of 24
hour operations, there must be 2 representatives available for
work.


(4)  Every crew member must be trained in H2S safety.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 10.]



Division 4 - General Well Equipment




Protection from hazards



33

(1)  Until title to the petroleum and natural gas rights has
been relinquished, or unless otherwise approved by an authorized
commission employee, a permanently legible and conspicuous sign
must be displayed and maintained at each drilling, producing,
potential and abandoned well showing

(a) the name of the licensee or operator,

(b) the name and legal description of the site,


(c) an appropriate warning symbol from Schedule 4 of this
regulation, and


(d) any other information specified by an authorized
commission employee.


(2)  If a well may produce gas containing 0.1 moles per
kilomole or greater of hydrogen sulphide, a poisonous gas symbol
from Schedule 4 must be displayed.


(3)  No licensee or operator may post warning symbols where
no hazard exists.





Tools, casing, equipment and materials



34

(1)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 11.]


(2)  If it appears to an authorized commission employee that
any tools, casing, equipment and materials used in the drilling or
production of a well are inadequate, defective or hazardous, an
authorized commission employee may require the replacement or
reconditioning of the equipment, casing or tubing and may order
orally, confirmed by a signed note on the daily report, that
operations be discontinued in whole or in part until the required
action is taken.


(3)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
well must ensure that all production from or injection into the
well is through tubing.


(4)  Prior to any injection of a fluid to a subsurface
formation through tubing in a well, and unless otherwise approved
by an authorized commission employee, the operator must


(a) set a production packer in the well as near as is
practical above the injection interval,


(b) ensure the space between tubing and the outer steel
casing is filled with a corrosion inhibiting fluid, and


(c) obtain approval from an authorized commission employee
for maximum wellhead injection pressure limitations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 11.]




Casing requirements



35

(1)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, and subject to
subsection (2), the operator of a well must ensure that surface
casing for a well conforms to the following requirements:


(a) surface casing program design and setting depth must be
based on relevant engineering and geologic factors;


(b) surface casing must be set below the base of all strata
known or reasonably expected to serve as a source of drinking
water;


(c) surface casing must be set at least 25 m into a competent
formation in accordance with good oilfield practice at a depth
sufficient to provide a competent anchor for blowout prevention
equipment and to ensure control of anticipated well pressures;


(d) the annulus must be filled with cement to the surface;


(e) the surface casing program and rationale for the program
must be recorded and made available on request to an authorized
commission employee.


(1.1)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 12 (b).]


(2)  The operator of a well must ensure that surface casing
cement is set under pressure and not drilled out until sufficient
compressive strength has been reached to obtain a valid formation
integrity test in accordance with good oilfield practice.


(3)  If a float collar or shoe is used, pressure at the
surface may be released immediately on completion of the cement
job.


(4)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
well must ensure that


(a) intermediate and production casing for the well is
cemented through all porous zones, to a minimum of 150 m above the
casing shoe, and tested in accordance with good oilfield practice,
and


(b) the cement is not drilled out until sufficient
compressive strength has been reached in accordance with good
oilfield practice.


(5)  Conductor casing must be set and cemented at a depth of
not less than 30 m below the mudline of the body of water during
drilling operations in areas permanently covered by water.


(6)  If there is any reason to doubt the effectiveness of
casing cementation, a survey must be made to determine the top of
the cement in the annulus and remedial measures must be taken if
necessary.


(7)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 12 (d).]


(8)  The surface and intermediate casing annulus must be
vented by a line which, subject to such other specifications that
may be specified by an authorized commission employee for a
particular case, must


(a) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 12 (d).]


(b) extend at least 60 cm above ground level,


(c) terminate so that any flow is directed either in a
downward direction or parallel to the ground, and

(d) contain an open valve.

[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 3; 390/2004, s. 12.]





Surface and subsurface equipment



36

(1)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
completed oil or gas well must ensure that the surface and
subsurface equipment of the well is arranged to permit


(a) the ready measurement of the tubing pressure, production
casing pressure and surface casing pressure, and


(b) any other reasonable test required by an authorized
commission employee.


(2)  The operator of a completed well must ensure that the
surface equipment at the well site includes


(a) the valve connections necessary to sample the oil, gas or
water produced, and


(b) in the case of a gas well, facilities for determining the
wellhead fluid temperature.

(3)  The operator of a well must

(a) keep a detailed record of all subsurface equipment in the
well at all times prior to abandonment, and


(b) make the record available to an authorized commission
employee on request.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 13.]




Repealed



37

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 14.]




Division 5 - Procedures




Uncontrolled flow



38

(1)  Every reasonable precaution must be taken to prevent a
well from flowing uncontrolled.


(2)  A verbal report on any well flowing uncontrolled must be
made immediately to the commission and confirmed in writing.





Provision for fluid containment



39

Preparation for the containment of any oil or gas encountered
during the drilling of a well must be made before the well is
completed, and adequate provision for the production and storage
and any flaring of production from this well must be made before
the well is placed on production.





Sealing off oil, gas or water



40

(1)  A well must not be drilled beyond any oil, gas or water
stratum until the oil, gas or water in such stratum is controlled
by drilling fluid, casing or cement unless approval has been
obtained from an authorized commission employee.


(2)  If it appears to an authorized commission employee that
a shut off of oil, gas or water in a well is not effective, he or
she may order that tests be made and remedial measures taken.





Multi-zone or commingled wells



41

(1)  An operator of a well must not

(a) complete a well, or
(b) allow a well to be completed,

for commingled production from more than one pool or zone unless
the operator first applies for and receives permission in writing
from an authorized commission employee.


(2)  An authorized commission employee may approve 2 or more
zones or pools in a field as zones or pools in which a multi-zone
well may be completed for commingled production and operated
without further approval.


(3)  An application for permission to complete a well as a
commingled well must include information in accordance with
guidelines issued by the commission.


(4)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, an operator of a
multi-zone well who has not received permission under subsection
(1) must


(a) conduct annual tests to confirm that segregation has been
established both in and behind the well casing, and


(b) within 30 days after completion, submit in duplicate to
the commission an analysis and interpretation of the tests
conducted.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 15.]




Alterations of wells and test holes



42

(1)  Until an application to alter a well or test hole, in
the form and including the information required by the commission,
has been approved by an authorized commission employee, the
operator of the well or test hole must not deepen or re-enter the
well or test hole.


(1.1)  Until an application to alter a well, in the form and
including the information required by the commission, has been
approved by an authorized commission employee, the operator of the
well must not


(a) re-complete the well in order to produce oil or gas from
any formation other than the formation or formations from which
production is being taken or has been taken, or

(b) perform a workover on the well.

(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 16 (b).]


(3)  A program of operations of the nature described in
subsection (1) must not be commenced unless the commission has
been notified and has approved the program in writing; however,
the approval may first be given orally and an Application to Alter
a Well must then be submitted without delay.


(4)  If drilling operations at a well have been suspended
with the approval of an authorized commission employee and are not
resumed within the time set out in the approval, application may
be made to the commission for an extension of the time of
suspension, giving the reasons for it, and the commission may
refuse the application or grant it in whole or part.


(5)  In the absence of an application for an extension of
time of suspension or if, in the opinion of an authorized
commission employee, suspension of normal drilling operations has
occurred without approval, an authorized commission employee may
direct that the well be abandoned or operations resumed in
accordance with further instructions.


(6)  An authorized commission employee may, at any time, vary
an approved program to alter a condition specified in an approval
granted under subsection (1).


(7)  Despite subsection (1), if a well is used only for a
unitized operation or if an authorized commission employee is
satisfied that a well is produced only to supply a seasonal
market, the normal producing or injecting operations at the well
may cease for any period without first obtaining approval of an
authorized commission employee under this section.


[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 4; 390/2004, s. 16.]





Commencement or suspension of operations



43

(1)  A Notice of Commencement or Suspension of Operations, on
the form provided, must be submitted to the commission within 7
days following the date a well is placed on continuous production,
suspension or service.


(2)  An authorized commission employee may at any time
require the submission of information sufficient to ensure the
ongoing integrity of a suspended well, and this required
information may include

(a) results of pressure tests of casing,

(b) results of casing integrity inspection or logging,

(c) evidence of physical inspection,

(d) evidence of control of noxious weeds, and


(e) any other survey, test or inspection as defined from time
to time by an authorized commission employee.




Part 5 - Well Abandonment




No well or test hole unplugged



44

(1)  A well or test hole must not be left unplugged or
uncased after it is no longer used for the purpose for which it
was drilled or converted.


(2)  The commissioner or deputy commissioner may order an
owner or operator of a well, or other person who in the opinion of
the commissioner or deputy commissioner has an interest in the
well, including a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver or a
receiver-manager, to abandon, plug or restore a well.





Plugging requirements for wells and test holes



45

(1)  Before abandoning a cased well or a cased test hole the
operator of the well must


(a) submit to the commission an application to abandon a
well, in the form and including the information required by the
commission, and


(b) obtain the approval of an authorized commission employee
to an abandonment program for the well, which approval may be
given orally and confirmed later in writing.


(2)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
well must ensure that


(a) all permeable formations are isolated with cement,


(b) cement plugs set in open hole are of a minimum length of
30 m,


(c) a cement plug of a minimum length of 30 m is centered
across the shoe of the surface casing or is of a sufficient length
to completely cement off any aquifer beneath the surface casing
shoe,


(d) all casing is cut off a minimum of 1 m below ground level
and capped with a 3 m cement plug and a welded plate,


(e) subject to paragraphs (f) and (g), the top of all plugs,
except the plug placed at the bottom of the well or test hole, is
confirmed and the particulars are recorded in the daily report,


(f) if the cement top is greater than 7 m from the depth
specified in the designed plugging program, additional cement is
used to bring the plug top to the depth as designed,


(g) if there is only a bottom hole plug and one other plug in
the well or test hole, the top of the plug placed at the bottom of
the well is confirmed and the particulars are recorded in the
daily report, and


(h) a 1.5 m signpost is welded onto the stub of a plugged
well or test hole on Crown land.


(3)  Cased holes may be abandoned by placing a bridge plug
above the top of perforations capped with an 8 m cement plug.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 17.]




Repealed



46

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 18.]





Pulling casing



47

(1)  The operator of a well must ensure that casing or other
equipment is not removed from the well if it is essential to the
proper control of the well.


(2)  The operator of a well must ensure that casing or other
equipment is not removed from the well if it is essential to the
prevention of inter-zonal communication.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 19.]




Surface restoration of wells and facilities



48

(1)  On completion or final abandonment of any well, test
hole or facility and as soon as weather and ground conditions
permit, the operator must ensure that the surface is returned, as
nearly as is reasonable, to the surface condition as it was when
the operations were commenced.


(2)  An Application for Certificate of Restoration, on the
form provided, must be submitted to the commission after the
restoration of the surface of any abandoned well, test hole,
production facility or gas processing plant in accordance with the
requirements of subsection (1).


(3)  Subsection (1) (d) and (e) do not apply if an
Application for Certificate of Restoration is accompanied by the
written consent of the surface owner.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 20.]



Part 6 - Well Data




Submission of information



49

(1)  On request by an authorized commission employee, all
information connected with or derived from the drilling,
production or other work performed on a well must be made
available, and when so required, must be submitted to an
authorized commission employee.

(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 21.]
[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 21.]




Daily drilling reports



50

(1)  The operator of a well being drilled or otherwise worked
on must


(a) ensure that a daily drilling report (tour sheet) that
conforms to subsection (2) is kept at the well site, and


(b) submit a copy of the daily drilling report (tour sheet)
to the commission at the completion of the drilling or other work.


(2)  The daily drilling report (tour sheet) must set out
complete data on all operations performed during the day,
including but not limited to the following:


(a) the depth at the beginning and end of each tour;


(b) all casing data, including size, type, grade, weight,
whether new or used and the depth at which it is set;

(c) particulars of cementing;

(d) details of any water, oil or gas encountered, even if
only small showings;

(e) a report of any tests made;

(f) full details of all formation tests, unless the details
are submitted on a confidential report form provided by the
commission;


(g) details of all occasions when the blowout preventers are
closed, with the reason for their being closed;


(h) details of any loss of drilling fluid into the formation;


(i) a report of any volume of fluid required to fill the hole
in accordance with section 24 (4) (c);


(j) the allocation of time to each operation;


(k) the name of the drilling contractor or service company
and rig number;

(l) the spud and rig release dates.
[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 22.]




Deviation and directional surveys



51

(1)  Deviation surveys must be made during drilling at
intervals not exceeding 150 m in depth, unless otherwise approved
by an authorized commission employee.


(2)  A directional survey of the well must be made or caused
to be made before placing a well on production, unless otherwise
approved by an authorized commission employee, if


(a) the surface position of the well is nearer to the
boundary of its target area than 2% of the total depth, or


(b) the surface position of the well is outside its target
area.


(3)  Immediately on obtaining the results of a directional
survey, the report must be sent to the commission.

(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 23.]
[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 23.]




Samples and cores



52

(0.1)  In this section,
"ministry facility"
means the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum Resources
Geology Facility for the storage and examination of well samples
and cores.


(1)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
well or test hole must


(a) take a series of drill cuttings samples at depth
intervals of 5 m commencing at a point determined by the operator
to be 50 m measured depth above the shallowest potential reservoir
zone expected in the well or test hole and continuing to the total
depth of the well or test hole,


(b) collect, wash, dry, sort and preserve 2 complete sets of
drill cuttings samples in vials and arranged in trays of an
approved ministry standard,


(c) clearly and accurately label the vials and trays with the
name and location of the well or test hole, the sample depths
represented, and which leg of a multi-leg well, and


(d) deliver 2 sets of the drill cuttings samples, carriage
prepaid, to the ministry facility not later than 14 days after the
date of rig release.


(1.1)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 24 (b).]


(2)  Within 30 days after completion of a core analysis, the
operator of a well or test hole must submit to the commission, in
duplicate, the result of the core analysis, including digital core
analysis data.


(3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 24 (d).]


(4)  When requested by an authorized commission employee, a
geological zone or formation must be cored.


(5)  The operator of a well or test hole must


(a) remove all cores from the core barrel and retain them in
book fashion in approved ministry core boxes,


(b) accurately label on the end of the box body, but not the
box lid, the well authorization or test hole number, the well or
test hole name, the surface location of the well or test hole, the
core number and interval, the length of core recovered, and
identify the top and bottom of core in the core box,


(c) protect boxes containing the cores from theft,
misplacement or exposure to the weather, and


(d) forward the core recovered to the ministry facility,
carriage prepaid, not later than 14 days after the rig release
unless otherwise approved by an authorized ministry employee.


(6)  Core boxes must be of adequate construction as specified
by an authorized ministry employee, the sides of the boxes must
project above the level of the contained cores, lids must be
securely fixed to ensure safe transit and the boxes must have an
inside length of 80 cm.


(7)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 5 (d).]


(8)  Core declared by an authorized commission employee as
being representative of a type section must not be broken or
chipped.


(9)  Breakage of core during examination at the ministry
facility must be kept to a minimum and core must not be destroyed,
broken or sampled without approval of an authorized ministry
employee.


(10)  Core received at the ministry facility in unsuitable
core boxes may be re-boxed and re-labeled at the expense of the
operator and drill cuttings samples received at the ministry
facility in unsuitable vials and trays may be repackaged and
relabeled at the expense of the operator.


(11)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 5 (e).]


(12)  Core may be removed from the ministry facility subject
to written approval by an authorized ministry employee for the
purpose of laboratory investigations that cannot be performed at
the ministry facility and under the following conditions:


(a) if non-confidential core is to be destroyed, slabbed or
sampled;


(b) if confidential core is involved, authorization from the
operator must be obtained;


(c) any person or operator removing core from the ministry
facility must return the core within 30 days, unless special
permission for a longer period is granted by an authorized
ministry employee;


(d) every reasonable precaution must be taken not to damage
or mix the core in core boxes;


(e) any analyses resulting from the laboratory investigations
must have 2 copies submitted to the commission within 30 days of
analysis completion;


(f) core must be returned to the ministry immediately on the
request of an authorized ministry employee.


(13)  The ministry must be provided with adequate notice by
any person wishing to examine core or drill cuttings at the
ministry facility.


(14)  Core and drill cuttings may be examined subject to the
approval of an authorized ministry employee under the following
conditions:


(a) examination of core and drill cuttings at a fee set out
in the Petroleum and Natural Gas General Regulation may be made at
the ministry facility;


(b) core may be removed from the ministry facility to a
location within the province of British Columbia with the approval
of an authorized ministry employee at a fee set out in the
Petroleum and Natural Gas General Regulation;


(c) core may be removed to a location outside of the province
of British Columbia with the written approval of an authorized
ministry employee at a fee rate set out in the Petroleum and
Natural Gas General Regulation;


(d) core and drill cuttings examination or removal of cores
fees may be waived for individuals conducting research as part of
a university program, for employees of the government of Canada or
a province of Canada, for employees of regulatory bodies acting on
behalf of their employers, or for the benefit of an educational or
scientific society, with the approval of an authorized ministry
employee.


(15)  Confidential core and drill cuttings may be examined
only after written permission has been obtained from an authorized
ministry employee and the operator of the well or test hole.


(16)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 5 (f).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 5; 390/2004, s. 24.]





Tests, analyses, surveys and logs



53

(1)  An authorized commission employee may at any time
require any test, analysis, survey or log to be made, and the
information so obtained must be submitted to the commission.


(2)  Before a well is completed, suspended or abandoned the
minimum requirement of


(a) a gamma ray log must be taken from ground level of the
well to total depth, and


(b) a resistivity and porosity log must be taken from the
base of the surface casing of the well to the total depth of the
well,


with all pertinent data recorded on them, unless permission is
obtained from an authorized commission employee to dispense with
those logs in whole or in part or to substitute a log or logs of a
different type.


(3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 25 (a).]


(4)  Within 30 days after the date on which a log was run,
the operator of a well or test hole must submit to the commission
2 copies of the log, including any computer enhanced logs,


(a) in both paper form and in a digital format acceptable to
an authorized commission employee, and


(b) clearly labeled with the well authorization number and
well name.


(5)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 25 (a).]


(6)  A pressure chart and a report containing complete
details on fluid recoveries and other pertinent facts for each
drill stem test or wire line test taken on a well must be
submitted to the commission within 30 days of the date on which
the test was made.


(7)  If drill stem tests, wire line tests or initial
production tests from a well permit good sampling, the operator
must submit to the commission, within 30 days of analysis
completion, 2 copies of all analyses made of any oil, gas or
formation water recovered from each formation.


(8)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 25 (a).]


(9)  On obtaining the data and results of a bottom-hole
sample analysis or other pressure-volume-temperature analysis, the
data and results must be submitted to the commission within 30
days of analysis completion.


(10)  Unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee, the operator of a gas processing plant must, on or
before January 31 of each year, submit analyses, satisfactory to
an authorized commission employee and representative of the
operations for the preceding year, of


(a) the fluids entering the plant, if practical separately,
for each pool delivering gas to the plant, and


(b) each marketable product leaving the plant.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 25.]




Repealed



54

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 26.]





Wellsite geology reports



55

Within 60 days after the date of rig release of the drilling rig,
the operator of a well must submit to the commission a wellsite
geology report


(a) for a well or portion of a well classified exploratory
outpost or exploratory wildcat, or


(b) regardless of the well classification, if a wellsite
geological report has been compiled.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 26.]




Completion and workover reports



56

(1)  A completion or workover report, in chronological
format, detailing all significant operations, treatments and
resulting well behaviour, and including a downhole schematic
diagram, must be submitted to the commission in duplicate within
30 days of the end of completion or workover operations.


(2)  For each separate completion or workover operation on a
well, a report must be submitted in accordance with subsection
(1).





Release of information



57

(1)  In this section:


"geological and geophysical reports"
means geological, geophysical and other reports in the possession
of the ministry or the commission that have confidential status
because of a designation made by the minister under section 122
(2) of the Act, but does not include well reports and well data;


"well reports and well data"
means


(a) information obtained from a well, for example, drilling
reports, well history reports, unprocessed and processed log data,
dipmeter surveys, directional surveys, drill stem test data and
analyses, wire line data, pressure-volume- temperature and flow
test data and analyses, subsurface pressure data and analyses,
completion information, geological information, drilling depths,
casing and cementing information, well status, gas, oil or water
sample or analysis data, drill cuttings and any analysis and
description of the drill cuttings and cores, and


(b) proprietary geological information, engineering data and
supporting calculations contained in pre-application submissions
for well authorizations,


but does not include geological and geophysical reports.


(2)  Subject to this section, well reports and well data that
are received by the ministry or the commission in the course of
the administration of the Act must be held confidential by the
ministry and the commission.


(3)  Geological and geophysical reports must be released from
confidential status


(a) 10 years after the date of receipt by the ministry or the
commission, if it receives the information in the performance of a
program of work under any of sections 43, 56, 57 or 58 (3) (c) of
the Act, or


(b) 21 years after the date of receipt by the ministry or the
commission, if it receives the information other than as set out
in paragraph (a).


(4)  Well reports and well data recorded with or submitted to
the ministry or the commission must be released from confidential
status


(a) 2 calendar months after the date of release of the
drilling rig for a well or portion of a well classified as a
development well,


(b) 6 calendar months after the date of release of the
drilling rig for a well or portion of a well classified as an
exploratory outpost,


(c) one year after the date of release of the drilling rig
for a well or portion of a well classified as an exploratory
wildcat,


(d) one year after the date of release of the drilling or
service rig when a well has been reentered and, in the opinion of
an authorized commission employee, a new pool has been identified,


(e) 3 years after the date of release of the drilling rig for
a well or a portion of a well forming part of an experimental
scheme, or


(f) 3 years after the date of release of the drilling rig for
a well or a portion of a well that is capable of producing natural
gas from strata or a stratum containing mainly coal and that forms
part of a development scheme.


(5)  The commissioner and deputy commissioner are designated
as employees of the commission who, on application of the operator
of a well, may order that the requirements of subsection (4), for
the release from confidential status of well reports and well
data, do not apply to that operator in relation to that well, for
the period and subject to the other conditions the commissioner or
deputy commissioner may specify, if satisfied that


(a) the operator of the well requests that the ministry offer
a Crown reserve for disposition by public tender and the ministry
has deferred its decision on the request,


(b) the well reports and well data include information from
which a person might reasonably be expected to infer the existence
of petroleum or natural gas in the Crown reserve referred to in
paragraph (a), and


(c) the release of the well information in accordance with
subsection (4) would significantly harm the business interests of
the operator of the well.


(6)  Well reports and well data must not be released under
subsection (4) from confidential status at any time when an
application, under section 14 (5), for reclassification of the
well as an exploratory wildcat, or, under subsection (5), for an
exemption, is under consideration pending a decision.


(7)  Despite subsection (4), if information has been released
in accordance with subsection (4) and a reclassification or
experimental status granted, the information released must not be
reclassified as confidential.


(8)  The following information is available to the public at
all times during business hours:


(a) expected total depth at the time of approval of the well
authorization, formation at expected total depth, position, ground
elevation and drilling status of a well;


(b) all applications and submissions made to the minister or
the commission for the purpose of a hearing.


(9)  Well reports and well data may be released from
confidential status


(a) if, for any reason, the rights to the well have reverted
to the government, or


(b) with the concurrence of the person who submitted the
information to the ministry or the commission.


(10)  If a location is surrendered, any information obtained
from a well on that location may be released from confidential
status at any time after the surrender.


(11)  If a location is or becomes Crown reserve, all
geological and geophysical reports and well reports and well data
for that location may be released from confidential status.


(12)  Despite any restrictions placed on the release of
information by this regulation, any information may be released by
the Lieutenant Governor in Council at any time when he or she
considers it in the public interest to do so.


(13)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 27 (b).]


(14)  If information has been released from confidential
status under this Division, any person may attend at the office of
the commission and


(a) reproduce records of the information on microfilm for a
fee set out in the Petroleum and Natural Gas General Regulation,
or


(b) examine or copy the records, for a fee set out in that
regulation.


(15)  The fees stipulated in subsection (14) may be waived
for individuals conducting research as part of a university
program, for employees of the government of Canada or a province
of Canada, for employees of a regulatory body, or for the benefit
of an educational or scientific society, with the approval of an
authorized commission employee.


(16)  Despite subsection (4), if, as a result of the
reclassification of a well or portion of a well as an exploratory
wildcat under section 14 (5), and on approval of an application
from the well operator, well reports and well data from each
subsequent well in the pool must be held confidential by the
ministry and the commission until the confidentiality period for
the discovery well has expired or for the period specified under
subsection (4), whichever results in the later date.


[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 6; 390/2004, s. 27.]




Part 7 - Prevention of Damages, Fires, Injuries and Losses




Air pollution control



58

(1)  If operations are being carried out at a well or
production facility and the hydrogen sulphide content of the gas
exceeds 10 moles per kilomole, or if the Emergency Planning Zone
for a well or production facility includes in whole or in part an
occupied dwelling, rural school, picnic ground or other populated
area, the operator of the well or production facility must comply
with the following conditions, unless otherwise approved by an
authorized commission employee:


(a) post suitable signs on or near the well or production
facility warning of the presence of poisonous gas;


(b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 28 (a).]


(c) equip and operate the well or production facility so that
the maximum operating flow line gauge pressure cannot exceed 1 400
kPa, unless a valve is installed at the wellhead or production
facility which closes automatically in the event of an
uncontrolled flow of oil or gas;


(d) if a well or production facility is located within 800 m
of an occupied dwelling, rural school, picnic ground or other
populated area, construct and maintain an adequate fence and
locking gate to prevent unauthorized access;


(e) submit to and have approved by the commission an outline
of emergency procedures to ensure public safety which will be
followed by the operator in the event of an uncontrolled emission
of oil or gas, if


(i)  a well or production facility is located within 800 m of
an occupied dwelling, rural school, picnic ground or other
populated area, or


(ii)  requested by an authorized commission employee.


(2)  If operations are being carried out at a well or
production facility and the hydrogen sulphide content of the gas
exceeds 50 moles per kilomole, or if the Emergency Planning Zone
for a well or production facility includes in whole or in part an
occupied dwelling, rural school, picnic ground or other populated
area, in addition to the provisions of subsection (1) the operator
of the well or production facility must comply with the following
conditions, unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee:


(a) for a well not produced by artificial lift,


(i)  equip the well with 2 master valves,


(ii)  install a production packer set as closely above the
producing formation as is practicable, with the annular space
between the tubing and production casing filled with a suitable
corrosion inhibiting liquid,


(iii)  install wellhead equipment for which the working
pressure rating is not less than the bottom-hole pressure of the
producing formation, but with a minimum rating of 14 000 kPa,


(iv)  if a hot oil circulating string is used inside the
production casing of a well, install a check valve in the
injection line and automatic shutoff valve on the return line, and


(v)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 28 (b).]


(vi)  if a well is equipped with a production packer as
required under subparagraph (ii), conduct annual segregation tests
by a method approved by an authorized commission employee to
confirm that the corrosion inhibiting liquid in the annular space
between the tubing and production casing is isolated from the
production fluid in the tubing, and notify the commission at least
3 days in advance of any segregation test at a well;

(b) for a well produced by artificial lift,

(i)  install on the stuffing box an automatic shutdown device
that will shut down the pumping unit in the event of a stuffing
box failure and effectively seal off the well in the event of a
polish rod failure, and


(ii)  install an automatic vibration shutdown system that
will safely shut down the pumping unit;


(c) install at all wells and production facilities a surface
valve which closes automatically to shut off an uncontrolled flow
of gas or oil from the wells or production facilities in the event
of a failure of the wellhead, surface facilities or gathering
line;


(d) for a flowing well that is located within 800 m of an
occupied dwelling or within 8 km of the limits of a city, town or
village and that has the potential to produce more than 30 000 m
3
of gas per day,


(i)  install a surface hydrogen sulphide gas detection and
alarm system,


(ii)  install a downhole safety valve in the tubing at least
30 m below the surface, and


(iii)  ensure that the downhole safety valve closes
automatically in the event of an uncontrolled flow of oil or gas
or in the event of a failure in the system which operates the
valve;


(e) for a production facility that is located within 800 m of
an occupied dwelling or within 8 km of the limits of a city, town
or village and that has the potential to produce more than 30 000
m
3
of gas per day,


(i)  install a hydrogen sulphide gas detection and alarm
system, and


(ii)  install an automatic shutdown system directly connected
to the detection system so that in the event of an uncontrolled
flow of oil or gas, the production facility automatically shuts
down.


(3)  The operator of a well or production facility must not,
without the approval of an authorized commission employee, permit
discharge to the atmosphere of any gas produced, including stock
tank vapours, unless burned in accordance with subsection (4).


(4)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, the operator of a
well must ensure


(a) that any gas to be burned through a flare line is
discharged from a flare line that


(i)  terminates with a vertical riser of at least 12 m in
height,

(ii)  is adequately anchored, and

(iii)  is equipped, if the gas flow is intermittent, with an
ignition device to ensure continuous ignition of any gases,


(b) that all gas to be burned is incinerated in a mechanical
device, and


(c) if the gas flow is intermittent, the flare line must be
provided with an ignition device to ensure continuous ignition of
any gases.


(5)  The operator of a well or production facility must, if
requested by an authorized commission employee,


(a) install and maintain monitoring stations that measure
ambient air quality,


(b) record and provide data on hydrogen sulphide
concentration in flared gas with flaring rates and times, and


(c) make available to the commission all information with or
derived from these measurements.


(6)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 28 (d).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 109/2002, s. 1; 390/2004, s. 28.]





Smoking



59

A person must not smoke within 25 m of any well, production
facility or gas processing plant.





Fire precautions



60

(1)  If an internal combustion engine is located within 25 m
of any well, separator, crude oil storage tank or other
unprotected source of ignitable vapours,


(a) its exhaust pipe must be insulated or sufficiently
cooled, in a manner acceptable to an authorized commission
employee, to prevent ignition of flammable material, and the end
of the exhaust pipe must be directed away from the well head or
source of ignitable vapours, and


(b) its exhaust manifold must be shielded to prevent contact
with liquids or gases which might otherwise fall on it.


(2)  If a diesel engine is located within 25 m of a well, it
must be provided with one of the following:


(a) an air intake shut-off valve of a type approved by an
authorized commission employee and equipped with a readily
accessible remote control;


(b) a system for injecting an inert gas into the engine's
cylinders, equipped with a readily accessible remote control;


(c) a suitable duct so that air for the engine is obtained at
least 25 m from the well;


(d) any other device or devices that may be approved by an
authorized commission employee.


(3)  If a valve and remote control or an injection system and
remote control have been installed in accordance with subsection
(2) (a) or (b), the operator of the well referred to in subsection
(2) must ensure that the stopping of the engine by the remote
control is tested


(a) before the cement plug at the shoe of the surface casing
is drilled out,


(b) before any well completion or servicing operations
commence, and


(c) at least once in each 7 day period during the drilling or
servicing of the well.


(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 29 (b).]


(5)  Except where gasoline or liquid fuel are held in fuel
tanks actually connected to operating equipment, they must not be
stored within 25 m of a well, and drainage of gasoline or liquid
fuel from such places of storage must be in a direction away from
the well location.


(6) and (7)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 29 (b).]


(8)  If a pressure relief valve, rupture disc or burst plate
is installed on a separator, treater or other pressure vessel at a
producing well, the valve, disc or plate, unless otherwise
approved by an authorized commission employee,


(a) must be connected by suitable piping to an open tank if
production is in the liquid phase, but, with approval of an
authorized commission employee, a system of automatic controls may
be installed, or


(b) must be connected to a flare line in accordance with
section 58 (3) if production is in the gaseous phase.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 29.]




Drill stem test recovery



61

(1)  If oil or gas has been recovered during a drill stem
test, the drill pipe must not be pulled during hours of darkness,
unless positive steps have been taken to ensure that there is no
possibility of oil or gas being present in the drill pipe.


(2)  Gas produced to the atmosphere for a period exceeding 10
minutes during a drill stem test must be burned through a flare
line in accordance with section 58 (3).





Fire control



62

Unless exempted under section 2.1, an operator must ensure that
fire is controlled in the following manner:


(a) fires are not located less than 50 m from any well, oil
storage tank or other unprotected source of ignitable vapour;


(b) all fires for any purpose are safeguarded by sufficient
mechanical or other means so that no hazard to surrounding
property is created;


(c) flares, incinerators, and enclosed gas burners are
located at least

(i)  50 m from a well;

(ii)  50 m from storage tanks containing flammable liquids;


(iii)  25 m from any oil or gas processing equipment;


(iv)  80 m from any right of way, easement of any road
allowance, public utility, building, installation, works, place of
public concourse or any reservation for national defence, except
only where there may exist special circumstances that, in the
opinion of an authorized commission employee, justify the position
at a greater or lesser distance;


(d) all vent lines from oil storage tanks which are vented to
flare pits or flare stacks are provided with flame arresters or
other equivalent safety devices;


(e) a flame type stove or heater, crude oil treater, glycol
type dehydrator installation or other flame type equipment is not
placed within 25 m of any well, separator, crude oil storage tank
or other unprotected source of ignitable vapours, except where
such flame type equipment is equipped with flame arresters
adequate for the purpose for which they are used;


(f) boilers and steam generating equipment are located at a
point not less than 25 m from any well, separator, crude oil
storage tank or other unprotected source of ignitable vapours;


(g) a crude oil treater is not placed or remain within 25 m,
shell to shell, of any type of boiler or direct fired heater or be
placed within 5 m, shell to shell, of any other direct fired crude
oil treater or indirect fired heater;


(h) a crude oil storage tank is not placed within 50 m of any
well;


(i) all facility piping is arranged and provided with control
valves to permit the ready shut off of oil or gas in the event of
fire at any facility installation;


(j) a separator is not enclosed within the fire wall, dyke or
ditch surrounding a storage tank installation;


(k) all vessels and equipment from which ignitable vapours
may issue are safely vented to the atmosphere;

(l) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 91/2000.]

(m) explosives of every kind and description are stored only
in properly constructed magazines, situated not less than 150 m
from any place where any drilling, production or processing
operation is being undertaken;


(n) a sufficient area beneath the flare stack is free of
combustible materials and vegetation.

[am. B.C. Regs. 91/2000; 390/2004, s. 30.]




Repealed



63

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 31.]





Oil storage



64

Unless exempted under section 2.1, an operator must ensure that
any tanks and production equipment for a well, facility or plant
for which the operator is responsible are located not less than 60
m from any right of way, easement, road allowance, public utility,
building, installation, works, place of public concourse or any
reservation for national defence.

[en. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 32.]




Repealed



65–70

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 91/2000.]





Prevention of losses



71

(0.1)  An operator must ensure that the requirements of this
section are met in relation to a well, facility or plant for which
the operator is responsible.


(1)  Every reasonable precaution must be taken to stop and
prevent loss or waste of oil, gas or water in drilling, producing
and processing operations in accordance with good conservation
practice and, in storing, piping or distributing, oil or gas must
not be used wastefully or allowed to leak or escape from natural
reservoirs, wells, tanks, containers or pipes.


(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 33 (b).]


(3)  Every reasonable precaution must be taken to protect
valves of wells, whether connected to flow lines or not, against
interference from unauthorized persons.


(4)  Oil or gas produced from a well or facility for which
the operator is responsible is not to be flared, except in amounts
required because of drill stem testing, unless


(a) permission in writing has been obtained from an
authorized commission employee,


(b) approval from an authorized commission employee is given
orally and confirmed later in writing, or


(c) written directions from the commission are complied with.


(5)  Approved gas flaring under subsection (4) must take
place through a flare line in accordance with section 58 (3).


(6)  If an oil spill or salt water spill occurs at any well
or facility, the operator must


(a) immediately report the type, size and location of the
spill to the commission by the quickest effective means if the oil
or salt water spill is not confined to the site of the facility or
is in excess of

(i)  100 litres in the case of oil, or

(ii)  2 cubic metres in the case of salt water,


(b) make every attempt to recover completely any oil or salt
water spilled, reprocess any oil recovered, and dispose of any
recovered salt water in accordance with section 94,


(c) obtain approval from an authorized commission employee
before any oil spill is burned in any manner,


(d) within a period of time approved by an authorized
commission employee after the spill recovery, commence a
rehabilitation program and continue with that program


(i)  until the spill site shows significant signs of
recovery, or


(ii)  as directed by an authorized commission employee, and


(e) submit a written report within 2 weeks of the date of the
spill containing at least the following information:


(i)  the date and time of the spill and its location;


(ii)  a description of the circumstances leading to the
spill;


(iii)  a discussion of the spill containment and recovery
procedures;


(iv)  a discussion of steps to be taken to prevent future
spills;


(v)  an outline of the spill site rehabilitation program;


(vi)  names of other persons or agencies advised concerning
the spill, and names of persons on the scene of the spill.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 33.]




Storage and disposal of wastes



72

(1)  Before any earthen pit may be used to store liquid waste
from a drilling or well servicing operation, the pit must


(a) be constructed of clay or other suitable impermeable
material with the bottom of the pit above ground water level,


(b) be located or ditched so that it will not collect natural
run-off water,


(c) be filled to not more than one metre below the point of
overflow at any given time, and


(d) be completely emptied and all excavations filled within
one month of rig release date unless otherwise approved by an
authorized commission employee.


(2)  Before the disposal of any liquid waste from a drilling
or well servicing operation, the operator must


(a) obtain water and sludge samples as directed by an
authorized commission employee,


(b) conduct a standard analysis of the samples referred to in
paragraph (a) and, when requested by an authorized commission
employee, a special analysis as specified by the Ministry of
Environment,


(c) submit a copy of the analysis to the commission, and


(d) obtain approval from an authorized commission employee
for the disposal of the fluid waste and closure of the pit.


(3)  Formation water, oil, drilling fluid, waste, chemical
substances or refuse from a well, tank or other facility must not
be permitted to


(a) create a hazard to public health or safety,


(b) run into or contaminate any fresh water stratum or body
of water or to remain in a place from which it might contaminate
any fresh water or body of water,


(c) run over or damage any land, highway or public road,


(d) pass into any body of water frequented by fish or that
flows into such water, nor on ice over either such waters, except
that water base drilling fluids may be discharged into the ocean
from offshore drilling operations, or


(e) pass into any body of water frequented by migratory
waterfowl or that flows into such water, nor on ice over either
such waters.

[am. B.C. Reg. 109/2002, s. 1.]



Part 8 - Production Operations



Division 1 - Oil




Daily oil allowable



73

(1)  An Application for a DOA, on a form provided, must be
submitted to the commission for each oil well not in a unitized
operation, GEP area or project area, and the DOA must be
calculated by a procedure approved by the commissioner or deputy
commissioner.


(2)  An interim DOA may be approved by an authorized
commission employee, pending final approval of the DOA.


(3)  A DOA may be amended at any time when it appears to an
authorized commission employee that a factor used in the
calculation of the DOA was wrongly evaluated or if additional
information becomes available.


(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 34 (c).]


(5)  The minimum unadjusted daily oil allowable must be
defined according to Schedule 3.


(6)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 34 (c).]


(7)  This regulation applies to every oil well in British
Columbia, and if a unitized operation, GEP area or project area
DOA is approved by an authorized commission employee, this
regulation applies instead to the unitized operation, GEP area or
project area as though it were a single well.


(8)  If, in the opinion of an authorized commission employee,
the application of this Division to a group of wells is affecting
adversely or would affect adversely the recovery of oil or gas
from locations other than the location included in the group, an
authorized commission employee may limit the production of one or
more wells in the group to the individual well daily oil
allowable.


(9)  An unadjusted daily oil allowable must be subject to an
off-target factor as required in section 9.


(10)  A DOA must be subject to a gas-oil ratio adjustment
factor determined from the formulas in Schedule 2.


(11)  The data used to select a gas-oil ratio adjustment
factor must be data obtained for the last calendar month in which
the oil well produced prior to the month for which the gas-oil
ratio adjustment factor is required.


(12)  For gas reinjection schemes, the gas-oil ratio
adjustment factor may be applied on the basis of net gas offtakes.

(13)  For Schedule 2,

(a) the separator pressure for a single well must be the
average separator pressure for the month in kilopascals,


(b) if stage separation is used, the separator pressure must
be that of the lowest pressure stage,


(c) for a group of wells within a unitized operation or
project DOA, the separator pressure must be the average separator
pressure of the group of wells weighted by volume of oil produced,
or


(d) if no separator pressure is reported, 400 kPa must be
used as a separator pressure.


(14)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 34 (f).]


(15)  A DOA issued prior to April 1, 1990, for an infill well
drilled on less than the normal spacing area must remain in
effect.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 34.]




Restriction of oil production



74

(1)  Initial oil production must not be taken from an oil
well until a DOA or interim DOA has been established for the well,
except in such amounts as may be required for evaluation purposes
as approved by an authorized commission employee.


(2)  The oil production in any one day must not exceed the
daily production limit, unless otherwise approved by an authorized
commission employee.





Test period allowable



75

(1)  During the test period for an oil well, the test period
allowable must be a volume of oil equal to the product of 90 days
and the DOA measured in cubic metres, plus 500 cubic metres, and
there must be no daily production limit or GOR adjustment factor
determined under section 73 (10).


(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a well drilled within a
unitized operation, a GEP area or a project area.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 35.]




Measurement of oil



76

(1)  A measurement of a volume of oil required by the Act or
this regulation must be computed as the number of cubic metres it
would occupy at standard conditions of 15°C and 101.325 kPa.


(2)  If oil volumes are measured at temperatures other than
15°C, correction to the corresponding volume at 15°C must be made
through use of Table 7 of the Petroleum Measurement Tables
published as the American Society of Testing Materials
Designations D1250-56, American Petroleum Institute Standard 2540
and Institute of Petroleum Designation 200/52.


(3)  Oil produced from a well, battery or group of wells must
be accurately measured by either manual gauging or an oil meter
approved by an authorized commission employee.


(4)  Unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee, each oil meter must be installed in accordance with this
section so that


(a) the meter is located upstream from a snap acting control
valve that will maintain a reasonably uniform flow rate through
the meter,


(b) prover taps installed are located downstream from the
control valve, and


(c) the installation conforms to the following design:












(5)  Unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee, the requirements under subsections (1) to (4) also apply
to the measurement of condensate produced from a gas well.





Measurement of test oil production



77

(1)  Each oil meter installed at a well or battery must be
calibrated within the first 3 months of operation by a meter
calibration comprising 4 consecutive runs, each within a tolerance
of plus or minus 1.5% of the mean factor.


(2)  Different wells must be used if possible for the 4
consecutive test runs required by subsection (1), with adequate
purging time allowed for the proving system, and the wells
selected must include those with the widest variation in gas-oil
ratio or other producing characteristics.


(3)  Following the initial meter calibration, each test oil
meter must be proven in accordance with subsections (1) and (2),
at least once each year after or immediately following any change
or repairs to the installation which might affect the meter
factor.


(4)  The test meter installation calibrations may be made
with a tank or other approved method or device which will provide
a meter factor.


(5)  A permanently legible and conspicuous tag or label on
which is recorded the date of last calibration, the meter serial
number and the meter factor must be attached to each meter.





Measurement of total oil production



78

(1)  Each group oil meter installation in service must be
calibrated within the first month of operation using a suitable
proving device.


(2)  Three consecutive runs must be used when proving in
accordance with subsection (1), each with a tolerance of plus or
minus 0.25% of the mean factor, and following a meter calibration
the average meter factor must be applied to meter readings until
the next meter calibration.


(3)  If a consistent meter factor is unattainable, the meter
must be replaced.

(4)  Following the initial proving,

(a) each group oil meter must be calibrated at least every
month, for which one run is sufficient if the new meter factor is
within 0.5% of the previous mean factor, and


(b) if the new meter factor is not within 0.5% of the
previous meter factor, the meter must be calibrated in accordance
with subsection (2).


(5)  A record of the calibration of the oil meter
installation must be made available to an authorized commission
employee on request.





Production test of oil wells



79

(1)  An operator must conduct at least 2 production tests per
month on each oil well whose production is delivered to a
proration battery.


(2)  In conducting the tests under subsection (1), the
operator must measure the volumes of oil, water and gas produced,
and the tests must be of a duration similar to the normal daily
producing period and must be adequately spaced throughout the
month.


(3)  The operator must make a record of the test and, if
applicable, the record must consist of the

(a) test date,
(b) duration of the test in hours,
(c) opening and closing meter readings,
(d) meter factor,
(e) percent of basic sediment and water,

(f) volumes of oil, water and gas produced during the test,
and

(g) average separator pressure.

(4)  To calculate the monthly estimated well production that
is to be reported for each well producing to a proration battery,
the operator must use the information recorded under subsection
(3) and the test to test method of calculation.


(5)  The operator must keep the records made under
subsections (3) and (4) for one year from the date they are made
and must make them available to an authorized commission employee
on request.


(6)  The commissioner and deputy commissioner are designated
as employees of the commission who may, in relation to a
particular site or installation, exempt a person from all or a
part of this section and may attach conditions to the exemption.


(7)  Each new or recompleted oil well must be tested
initially for a period of not less than 8 consecutive hours, and a
report must be submitted to the commission at the end of each
calendar week during the test showing the oil production, net
gas-oil ratio, water production and the density in kg/m
3
of the oil.





Adjustment of oil production



80

(1)  The overproduction or underproduction of each well or
approved group of oil wells must be determined at the end of every
month and, without notification from the commission, the
subsequent production of each oil well or group of oil wells must
be adjusted in accordance with this regulation.


(2)  Unless exempted under section 2.1, an operator must
ensure that


(a) the production target at the end of the month and the
overproduction or underproduction at the beginning of the month
for each producing oil well or group of oil wells for which the
operator is responsible is calculated each month, and


(b) a production allowable report, on the form provided, is
submitted to the commission in time to be received on or before
the 16th day of the month.


(3)  If the report required by subsection (2) is not received
on the due date or immediately thereafter on request, an
authorized commission employee may order the oil well or group of
oil wells shut in until the report is received, at which time the
well or group of wells may resume production, unless
overproduction at the beginning of the month in which the report
was due exceeded the monthly oil allowable for that month, in
which case the well or group of wells must remain shut in until
the total shut in period is equal to the nearest whole number of
days determined by dividing the overproduction by the daily oil
allowable.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 36.]




Underproduction of oil



81

(1)  Underproduction may be made up at any time within a
production period at a rate not exceeding the daily production
limit.


(2)  Underproduction may not be carried forward to the
following production period except under an exemption in writing
granted by an authorized commission employee to the operator of
the well or wells to which the underproduction pertains, and
subject to any conditions specified in the exemption.

[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 7.]




Overproduction of oil



82

(1)  If overproduction at the beginning of any month exceeds
the monthly oil allowable, adjusted for any penalties, for that
month, the operator must shut in the oil well on or before the
16th day of the month, and must keep it shut in until the
overproduction is completely retired.


(2)  If overproduction at the end of a production period is
greater than 25% of the monthly oil allowable for October,
adjusted for any penalties, it must be carried forward and the
operator must shut in the well on or before November 16 and must
keep it shut in until the overproduction is completely retired.


(3)  If an operator shuts in a well in accordance with this
section, the commission must be notified in writing of the date on
which the well is shut in, and the number of days calculated for
the shut in period based on the daily oil allowable.


(4)  If an operator fails to shut in an oil well as required
by this regulation, an authorized commission employee may shut in
the oil well and seal any apparatus used in connection therewith
in accordance with section 103 (1).


(5)  The government is not liable for any damage incurred as
a result of any action taken under this section by the government
or the commission.




Division 2 - Gas




Notification of initial production or potential tests



83

The commission must be notified at least 24 hours in advance of
any initial production or potential test in order that the test
may be witnessed by an authorized commission employee.





Gas well tests



84

(1)  The absolute open flow potential of a gas well must be
determined by a method approved by an authorized commission
employee.


(2)  Unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee, each gas well must be tested and the absolute open flow
potential determined by the operator and approved by an authorized
commission employee


(a) before 6 months have elapsed after the well has been
placed on production,


(b) immediately after each workover performed on the well,
and


(c) when requested by an authorized commission employee.


(3)  A detailed report of any test made under this regulation
must be submitted to the commission within 60 days of the date on
which the test was completed.


(4)  On failure to provide a detailed absolute open flow
potential test report satisfactory to an authorized commission
employee, as required under subsection (3), an authorized
commission employee may order the well or wells in question be
shut in until adequate data is obtained.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 37.]




Metering and measurement of gas



85

(1)  A measurement of a volume of gas required by the Act or
this regulation must be computed as the number of cubic metres it
would occupy at standard conditions of 101.325 kPa and 15°C.


(2)  If the conditions of pressure and temperature differ
from the standard conditions described under subsection (1),
conversion of the volume from the conditions under which
measurement is made to the standard conditions must be made in
accordance with the ideal gas laws and corrected for deviation
from the ideal gas laws.


(3)  Correction for deviations from the ideal gas laws must
be based on tables of the American Gas Association published in
Gas Measurement Committee Report No. 3 or by such other method as
an authorized commission employee may approve.


(4)  All gas produced from a well, production facility or gas
processing plant must be accurately measured with a gas meter
approved by an authorized commission employee and subject to
conditions specified by him or her.


(5)  An authorized commission employee, under special
circumstances and on receipt of an application in writing, may
waive the requirement to meter the gas produced at a well, subject
to the condition that the commission is supplied with acceptable
estimates of the volume of the gas.


(6)  If a gas metering error is apparent, the meter must be
corrected immediately and a report of the corrected production for
the period during which the meter measured incorrectly must be
submitted.


(7)  When gas is produced from a well, production facility or
gas processing plant,


(a) the meter must be maintained in good operating condition,


(b) the meter must be suitably safeguarded from weather and
from interference by unauthorized persons,


(c) if there is a bypass around a meter, valves must be
installed that, when closed, will effectively stop all flow of gas
through the bypass, and


(d) if a bypass around a meter is opened or if, for any other
reason, the full gas stream does not reach the meter, a suitable
entry on the meter chart must be made.


(8)  If the volume of gas at a well, production facility or
gas processing plant requires correction for flowing temperature
and there is no continuous recording of gas flow temperature, each
meter run must be equipped with a thermometer well, and the
temperature of the gas stream must be taken and recorded on the
chart at least once per week.


(9)  A reasonable estimate of all unmetered gas production
from a well, production facility or gas processing plant must be
included in the gas volume computation for the period covered by a
chart, meter, index counter or data printout.





Orifice meters



86

(1)  If an orifice meter is used to measure gas production,
the meter must be equipped with a chart record and the meter must
be installed in accordance with the provisions of the code of the
American Gas Association, published as Gas Measurement Committee
Report No. 3.


(2)  Unless otherwise directed by an authorized commission
employee, either a circular chart drive, not slower than 7 days
per cycle, or a suitable strip chart must be used for the
measurement of gas production.


(3)  A 24-hour chart drive must be used to measure the gas
produced at an oil well, unless an application is made for a
slower clock drive and is approved by an authorized commission
employee.


(4)  If an orifice meter is used, the installation must be so
arranged as to permit ready inspection of the orifice plate by an
authorized commission employee, and the following data must be
recorded on the chart:


(a) identification of the gas stream being metered;

(b) the size of the orifice plate in use;
(c) the size of the meter tube;

(d) pertinent details of any orifice plate changes;


(e) the time and the date of start and finish of the record;

(f) the flowing gas temperature.

(5)  The measured inside diameter of each orifice meter tube
in millimetres to 2 decimal places must be marked on the tube or
flange.


(6)  The bore in millimetres to 2 decimal figures must be
stamped on each orifice plate.


(7)  Unless otherwise required by an authorized commission
employee, the computation period for the gas volumes measured must
be for the period of the chart rotation, but for gas wells the
maximum daily production in each month must also be calculated.


(8)  All gas volumes must be computed in accordance with the
code of the American Gas Association, published as Gas Measurement
Committee Report No. 3, using all the factors in the following gas
flow formula taken from the report:


Q = [Fb · Fr ·Y · Fpb · Ftb · Ftf · Fg · Fpv · fm · (hw · Pf) 1/2]
· Operating Hours


(9)  If gas is produced with oil, the factors Fr and Y under
subsection (8) need not be used in calculating gas volumes if the
difference in the result would not exceed 2%.


(10)  The density factor used to compute the gas production
of a well or group of wells must be determined from annual
measurements of gas density.


(11)  On application, an authorized commission employee may,
if special circumstances warrant, waive the requirement for a
chart record on an integrating orifice meter.


(12)  If chart recordings are used, charts must be retained
by the operator for a period of one year.





Restriction of gas production



87

(0.1)  An operator must ensure that the requirements of this
section are met in relation to a gas well for which the operator
is responsible.


(1)  Gas wells, other than those listed in section 88 (1) (a)
to (e), do not require a DGA application and are not production
restricted.


(2)  Production must not be taken from gas wells listed in
section 88 (1) (a) to (e) until a DGA or interim DGA has been
approved for each well, except in amounts, if any, that are
required for initial production tests or initial evaluation tests.


(3)  The gas production in any one day must not exceed the
daily production limit except in accordance with an exemption
under section 2.1.


(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 38 (c).]


(5)  If a DGA has been assigned in accordance with section 88
(1), the gas production for the period November 1 to October 31
must not exceed the daily gas allowable multiplied by the number
of days in the period, or multiplied by the number of days from
the date of initial production to the end of the period.


(6)  Production must not be taken from a gas well which is
deemed by an authorized commission employee to be in a gas cap
except in accordance with an exemption under section 2.1.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 38.]




Daily gas allowable



88

(1)  An application for a DGA, on a form provided, must be
submitted to the commission and the DGA must be calculated by a
procedure approved by the commissioner or deputy commissioner for
wells that are determined by an authorized commission employee to
be


(a) completed off-target if correlative rights are an issue,


(b) producing under a concurrent production scheme,


(c) producing from a retrograde condensate reservoir,


(d) producing from a pool with suspected water drive, or


(e) any category if conservation is at issue.


(2)  An interim DGA may be approved by an authorized
commission employee pending final approval of the DGA.


(3)  A DGA may be amended at any time when it appears to an
authorized commission employee that a factor used in the
calculation of the DGA was wrongly evaluated or if additional
information becomes available.


(4) and (5)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 39 (b).]


(6)  If a unitized operation, GEP area or project area DGA is
approved by an authorized commission employee, this regulation
applies instead to the unitized operation, GEP area or project
area as though each were a single well.


(7)  If, in the opinion of the commissioner or deputy
commissioner, the application of this section to a unitized
operation, GEP area or project area is affecting adversely or
would affect adversely the recovery of gas from locations other
than the locations included in the unitized operation, GEP area or
project area, he or she may limit the production of one or more
wells in the unitized operation, GEP area or project area to the
individual well daily gas allowable.


(8)  An unadjusted daily gas allowable will be subject to an
off-target factor as specified in section 10.


(9)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 39 (b).]


(10)  A well may be released from an allowable category in
subsection (1) if, after a review of evidence submitted by the
operator, the commissioner or deputy commissioner approves the
release.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 39.]




Overproduction of gas



89

(1)  The accumulated overproduction for the period November 1
to October 31 must be determined by the operator for each gas well
or group of wells and, during the subsequent 3 months, without
notification from the commission, the production rate must be
adjusted so that all accumulated overproduction is retired by
January 31.


(2)  A report, on the form provided, of any accumulated
overproduction for the period November 1 to October 31 must be
submitted to the commission in time for it to be received on or
before December 16 for each gas well, unit, GEP area or project.


(3)  If overproduction is not corrected in accordance with
subsection (1), an authorized commission employee may give
instructions for the well to be shut in for a period determined by
him or her.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 40.]




Gas well stream analyses



90

(1)  At least once a year during the first 2 years of
production and at other times requested by an authorized
commission employee, samples must be taken and analyzed, and tests
conducted and measurements made in a manner specified by or
acceptable to an authorized commission employee to determine the
nature and the proportion of the constituents of the fluids,
except water, being produced by a gas well.


(2)  Within 60 days of the completion of the sampling and
testing, a report of the results, which must include analyses of
the liquids and gas produced by the well and a statement of the
proportions in which the liquids and gas were produced, must be
submitted to the commission.


(3)  The report under subsection (2) must show the results of
the tests and the analyses expressed in a form and units
acceptable to an authorized commission employee.


(4)  The commission must be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of the date and time at which the test under subsection
(1) will be carried out.




Division 3 - Water




Measurement of water production



91

(1)  A measurement of water required by the Act or this
regulation must be computed as a number of cubic metres and must
be made by measuring equipment considered adequate by an
authorized commission employee for the conditions of service.


(2)  If a water meter is used to determine water production,
the meter must be


(a) calibrated within the first 3 months of operation,


(b) calibrated immediately following any repairs to the meter
or at the end of a one year period since the last calibration, or


(c) recalibrated on request by an authorized commission
employee.


(3)  A permanently legible and conspicuous tag or label on
which is recorded the date of last calibration, the meter serial
number and the meter factor must be attached to each meter.


(4)  A calibration or recalibration required by subsection
(2) must be made in the shop or field against a prover tank, check
meter or other approved device and with a minimum of 4 consecutive
runs each within a tolerance of plus or minus 1.5% of the mean
factor.


(5)  Unless otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee, each meter used to measure water production or injection
must be installed in accordance with section 76 (4).


(6)  An authorized commission employee, under special
circumstances and on an application in writing, may waive the
requirement to continuously measure water produced from or
injected into a well, subject to the condition that the operator
must supply to the commission satisfactory estimates for the
volumes of water.





Water produced at oil wells



92

(1)  If the water production from an oil well is 100 m
3
/1 000 m
3
or more of the total liquid production and no test treater
facilities are available, the water content of the oil may be
determined by


(a) continuous proportional sampling of the produced liquids
and accurate analysis of the sample, or

(b) an approved product analyzer.

(2)  If the water production from an oil well is less than
100 m
3
/1 000 m
3
of the total liquid production and no test treater facilities are
available, the water content of the oil may be determined by
centrifuging 2 samples taken at well-spaced intervals during each
test and averaging the results or by methods described in
subsection (1).


(3)  If the total water production at an oil well or battery
exceeds 50 m
3
per month and the water cut is in excess of 5 m
3
/1 000 m
3
of the total liquid production, the water must be separated from
the oil and accurately gauged or metered at the well, battery or
at a central treating facility.


(4)  If the total water production from a multi-well battery
is less than 50 m
3
per month, the water production may be determined by totalling the
calculated water production for each well based on its individual
test rate as determined in accordance with section 91 (1).


(5)  If the total water production from an oil well not
grouped with others in a battery is less than 50 m
3
per month, the water production may be determined by centrifuging
3-spot or proportional samples taken at well spaced intervals
during the month and averaging the results.


(6)  If a proportional sampler is used to determine water
production,


(a) a representative sample must be obtained, and


(b) the percentage water content must be determined by an
accurate analysis of the fluid sample according to the American
Society of Testing Materials Procedure.


(7)  If a product analyzer is used to determine water
production, it must be maintained in accurate calibration.





Water produced at gas wells



93

(1)  Water production that is separated at a gas well or
central facility must be measured by a means approved by an
authorized commission employee.


(2)  Water production from each gas well must be measured
monthly or as otherwise approved by an authorized commission
employee.





Disposal of water production



94

(1)  All water produced at a facility or well must be
disposed of


(a) to an underground formation in accordance with a scheme
approved under section 100 (1) (d) of the Act, or


(b) by a method acceptable to an authorized commission
employee.


(2)  Earthen pits may be used to contain produced salt water
on an emergency basis in areas approved by an authorized
commission employee, provided such earthen pits are limited to one
for each well, production facility or gas processing plant, are no
larger than 600 square metres in area and are constructed and
maintained in a condition acceptable to an authorized commission
employee.


(3)  The contents of each earthen pit must be disposed of in
accordance with subsection (1) within 48 hours after an emergency
requiring the use of the pit has occurred, unless otherwise
approved by an authorized commission employee.


(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 8 (b).]


(5)  If water is disposed of to an underground formation, a
Monthly Injection/Disposal Statement, on the form provided, must
be submitted to the commission not later than 25 days after the
end of the month reported.

[am. B.C. Reg. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 8.]



Division 4 - Pressure and Injection Measurement




Static bottom hole pressure measurements



95

(1)  The static bottom hole pressure of each completed zone
of each oil or gas well must be measured before initial oil or gas
production.


(2)  The static bottom hole pressure of each producing pool
must be measured annually after initial measurement, unless
otherwise approved by an authorized commission employee.


(3)  All static bottom hole pressures and the duration of the
shut-in period thereof must be reported to the commission within
60 days after the date on which the pressures were measured.


(4)  When static bottom hole pressures are measured, the
surveyed wells must remain shut-in until the reservoir pressure
has been attained in the well bore or until sufficient data are
available to permit the calculation of the reservoir pressure and,
in the latter case, details of the reservoir pressure calculations
must be included in the report required under subsection (3).


(5)  The method of measuring the static bottom hole pressure
must be approved by an authorized commission employee.


(6)  On failure to provide adequate static bottom hole
pressure data, an authorized commission employee may order that
the well or wells in question be shut-in until such time as
adequate pressure data is obtained.


(7)  If an authorized commission employee considers it
appropriate in the circumstances of a particular case or for wells
in a scheme approved under section 100 (1) of the Act, he or she
may grant to an operator a written exemption from subsection (1)
of this section, subject to any conditions specified in the
exemption.


[am. B.C. Regs. 257/2003, Sch. B, s. 9; 390/2004, s. 41.]





Repealed



96

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 42.]





Measurement of fluids injected



97

(1)  When water, gas, air or any other fluid is injected
through a well to an underground formation, it must be
continuously measured by a method acceptable to an authorized
commission employee.


(2)  If the measurement of injected water is required by an
authorized commission employee, water meters must all be
calibrated in accordance with section 91 (2) and tagged in
accordance with section 91 (3).


(3)  Annual tests must be conducted by a method approved by
an authorized commission employee to confirm that segregation is
maintained between the injected fluid and the annulus at all fluid
injection and disposal wells, and the commission must be notified
at least 3 days in advance of any segregation test at a fluid
injection or disposal well.




Division 5 - Production Facilities




Repealed



98

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 42.]





Signs for facilities



99

(1)  Unless approved by an authorized commission employee, a
permanently legible and conspicuous sign must be displayed and
maintained at each production facility and gas processing plant
showing

(a) the name of the operator,

(b) the name and legal description of the site,


(c) an appropriate warning symbol from Schedule 4 of this
regulation, and


(d) any other information specified by an authorized
commission employee.


(2)  If a facility handles gas containing 0.1 moles per
kilomole or greater of hydrogen sulphide, a poisonous gas symbol
from Schedule 4 must be displayed.


(3)  No operator may post warning symbols where no hazard
exists.





Production facilities



100

(0.1)  In this section,
"production facility"
includes a gas processing plant.


(1)  The construction or modification of a production
facility may be approved by an authorized commission employee,
subject to whatever conditions he or she considers necessary.


(2)  Operation of a production facility after construction or
modification must not commence until the operator has given
written notice to an authorized commission employee.


(3)  The operator must keep a detailed flow diagram of the
production facility other than a gas processing plant at the
facility or the field office at all times.


(4)  The measurement capabilities of a production facility
other than a gas processing plant must be sufficient to determine,
to the satisfaction of an authorized commission employee, the
actual production of each product from each zone of each well.


[am. B.C. Regs. 168/99; 390/2004, s. 43; 283/2010.]




Division 6 - Projects and Unitized Operations




Good engineering practice



101

(1)  On application from an owner or owners, an authorized
commission employee may approve the operation of a well or group
of wells in a specified area under GEP if


(a) the applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of an
authorized commission employee that reduction in ultimate recovery
will not result from the proposed scheme,


(b) letters from owners of spacing areas within the area of
the proposed scheme, indicating their reaction to the proposed
scheme, have been filed with the commission,


(c) a sufficient level of technical information has been
filed in accordance with guidelines specified by the commission,
and


(d) other information considered appropriate by an authorized
commission employee has been filed.


(2)  On approval of a scheme under subsection (1), an
authorized commission employee may


(a) establish or remove a daily oil or gas allowable or oil
and gas allowable for the GEP area, subject to section 73 (8) or
88 (7), and


(b) grant to the owner or owners referred to in subsection
(1) an exemption in writing from the application of sections 9 and
10, subject to any conditions that the authorized commission
employee considers prudent or necessary.

[am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 44.]



Part 9 - Notification and Compliance




Change in holder of approval



102

If, with respect to


(a) the holder of an approval for a GEP, project, production
facility or plant given under the Act or this regulation, or

(b) an operator of a unitized operation,

the name of the holder or operator is changed or ownership is
transferred from the holder or operator to another person, the
commission must be notified, in writing, within 60 days of the
change or transfer and the notification must be accompanied by
satisfactory proof of execution of the name change or ownership
transfer.





Seals



103

(1)  An authorized commission employee, whenever he or she
considers it necessary to do so, may seal or cause to be sealed
with a metallic seal any or all valves or meters installed at a
well or on any pipeline, tank or other receptacle used for the
storage or transportation of oil or other fluid produced or
withdrawn from the well, and may remove or authorize the removal
of such seals.


(2)  An authorized commission employee must notify the
operator in writing of the affixing of the seal and the reasons
therefor.


(3)  Unauthorized persons must not be permitted to remove or
tamper with any seal so affixed.


(4)  Any seal so affixed may be removed without authority in
writing from an authorized commission employee only in case of
emergency, and in such a case the commission must be notified
without delay.





Compliance with this regulation



104

(1)  A person must not do or omit to do anything, or cause or
allow anything to be done or omitted, in contravention of or not
in accordance with this regulation.


(2)  If an authorized commission employee is authorized to
issue an order under this regulation, the person to whom the order
is issued or request made must comply with the order or request.





Repealed



105

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 45.]




Schedule 1

[en. B.C. Reg. 393/98.]

Determination of Emergency Planning Zone Radius






Schedule 2


[en. B.C. Reg. 393/98.; am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 46]


Gas-oil Ratio Adjustment Factor


Unless otherwise approved by the commission, the gas-oil ratio
adjustment factor must be the lesser of 1.00 and the calculated
gas-oil ratio adjustment factor as determined in the equation:





F
GOR
=

C







GOR + 0.0257 x S







where




FGOR =

Gas-oil ratio adjustment factor calculated to the nearest 2
decimals.




C =
Constant, 177.3



GOR =

Net calculated gas-oil ratio (m
3
/m
3
)




S =
Average separator pressure (kPa)





Schedule 3


[en. B.C. Reg. 393/98; am. B.C. Reg. 390/2004, s. 47.]


Schedule of Minimum Unadjusted Oil Allowables






Depth*


(Metres)



Minimum Oil Allowable


(Cubic Metres per Day)



0-2 000
10


Greater than 2 000

10 plus 1.0 m
3
per day per 100 metres of depth





* "Depth" means the true vertical depth at the bottom of the
producing zone in a well.



Schedule 4

[en. B.C. Reg. 393/98.]




Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 336/91.


[Provisions of the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 361, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 96]





Section 100 (0.1) was added by BC Reg 283/2010, effective September
24, 2010.



Section 100 (1), (2), (3) and (4) BEFORE amended by 283/2010,
effective September 24, 2010.


(1)  Major construction or modification at a production
facility must not be made until an Application for Production
Facility or an Application for a Well or Facility to Facility
Linkage has been submitted and approved by an authorized commission
employee, subject to whatever conditions he or she considers
necessary.


(2)  Operation of a production facility or a gas processing
plant after construction or modification must not commence until the
operator has given written notice to an authorized commission
employee.


(3)  The operator must keep a detailed flow diagram of the
production facility at the facility or the field office at all
times.


(4)  The measurement capabilities of a production facility must
be sufficient to determine, to the satisfaction of an authorized
commission employee, the actual production of each product from each
zone of each well.





