




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act


British Columbia Agricultural Industry Development Council Regulation

B.C. Reg. 190/91





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 68/2004, effective February 27,
2004.





B.C. Reg. 190/91

O.C. 887/91


Deposited June 21, 1991






Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act



British Columbia Agricultural Industry Development Council
Regulation






Interpretation



1

In this regulation:


"agent"
means a person designated by the council to collect the levy;


"aquaculture product"
means salmon, trout and oysters produced by a grower;


"council"
means the British Columbia Agricultural Industry Development
Council established by the minister under the
Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act
;


"grower"
means a person who produces a farm product or operates a farm that
produces a farm product;


"farm product"
means a plant product, animal product or aquaculture product
produced on a farm for consumption or use by others;


"first receiver"
means a person who receives a farm product from, or on behalf of,
a grower for packing, grading, shipping, selling, distributing or
processing;


"levy"
means a levy established under the
Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act
by the council in accordance with Schedule A;


"perishable vegetables"
include


(a) hothouse tomatoes, cucumbers, lettuce and peppers, and


(b) field lettuce, asparagus, celery and cauliflower;


"storable vegetables"
include beets, cabbage, carrots, onions, parsnips, potatoes and
rutabagas.





Payment of the levy



2

(1)  The council may appoint an agent to collect the levy.


(2)  Each grower must pay the levy to the council or its
agent within 60 days of delivery of a farm product to the first
receiver.





Records



3

(1)  The council must retain all records respecting the
collection of the levy for 2 years from the date of the
collection.


(2)  Records for the purposes of subsection (1) must include
the name and address of each grower who paid the levy.


(3)  The agent must advise the council in writing of the
name, address and amount collected from each grower and must keep
a record of this information for 2 years from the date of
collection.




Schedule A

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 230/97]

[Provisions of the
Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 134, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 4 and 10]





