




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Emergency Act


Emergency Medical Assistants Regulation

B.C. Reg. 260/91





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 562/2004, effective January 1,
2005.





B.C. Reg. 260/91

O.C. 1181/91


Deposited August 30, 1991






Health Emergency Act


Emergency Medical Assistants Regulation




Part 1 - General Provisions




Interpretation



1

(1)  In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Health Emergency Act
;


"active employment"
means

(a) employment as an EMA, and

(b) available to perform pre-hospital emergency procedures;


"advanced EMA"
means an EMA who has successfully completed training under an
advanced medical procedures program described in Schedules F and G
and has passed the required examinations;


"continuing medical education model"
means the 5 year program of continuing medical education approved
by the board for a category of EMA, consisting of 5 modules to be
completed at the rate of 1 module per year;


"EMA"
means an emergency medical assistant licensed in a category
referred to in section 6;


"EMA FA"
means an EMA who has successfully completed occupational first aid
training or equivalent;


"EMA FR"
means an EMA who has successfully completed level 1, 2 or 3
training under a first responder program;


"EMA 1"
and
"EMA 2"
means an EMA who has successfully completed training under a level
1 and level 2 program respectively;


"EMA 3 (ALS)"
means an EMA who has successfully completed training under an
advanced life support program;


"EMA 3 (ITT)"
means an EMA who has successfully completed training under an
infant transport team program;


"licence"
means registration as an EMA;


"rules"
means the rules of the board;


"register"
means the register of emergency medical assistants established and
maintained under section 3;


"registrar"
means the person appointed as registrar under section 2.


(2)  A reference to a licence is a reference to a valid and
subsisting licence.


(3) and (4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 125/2000, s. 1.]


[am. B.C. Regs. 125/2000, s. 1; 262/2001, ss. 1 and 2.]





Registrar



2

The commission shall appoint a registrar who shall be the
administrative officer responsible for the day-to-day management
of the board, including the processing of applications for
licences and the renewal, advancement and reinstatement of
licences.





Register



3

(1)  The board shall establish and maintain a permanent
register of every EMA who has been granted a licence or temporary
licence under the Act.


(2)  The registrar shall enter in the register the name and
address of each EMA, his or her licence number, the licence expiry
date, any other information the board deems essential for each EMA
and, if the EMA is an employee of the commission, the employee
number.


(3)  The information required under subsection (2) with
respect to every newly registered EMA must be entered in the
register at the time of acceptance of an application for
registration.


(4)  An EMA shall notify the registrar, in writing, of any
change of address or place of employment within 30 days after the
change, and the registrar shall enter the change in the register.


(5)  If a licence has expired or is cancelled or suspended,
the EMA shall, within 48 hours after expiration or after being
notified of its cancellation or suspension, return the licence to
the registrar.


(6)  The register must be kept at the office of the board and
must be open to inspection by any person during normal business
hours, subject to reasonable restrictions the board may impose.




Part 2 - Licensing




Forms



4

Every application for a licence or the renewal of a licence must
be made to the registrar on a form approved by the board.





Application for licence



5

(1)  A person not previously licensed in British Columbia who


(a) applies for a licence in the manner provided for by the
rules,

(b) submits to the board

(i)  an application for a licence and an identification card,
and


(ii)  2 pictures of the applicant, approximately 20 mm by 25
mm, and the negative from which the prints were made,


(c) has, for the category of licence sought,


(i)  the qualifications set out in Schedule A,


(ii)  the required training set out in Schedules B to G, and


(iii)  passed the required examinations approved by the
board, and


(d) provides evidence, satisfactory to the board, that he or
she is of good character and fit to work as an EMA,


is entitled to be licensed as an EMA in the category for which he
or she is qualified.

(2)  The board shall

(a) return the application to the applicant if the board is
of the opinion that the application is incomplete,


(b) reject the application if the board is of the opinion
that the applicant has not complied with the requirements of
subsection (1), or


(c) approve the application and issue a licence to the
applicant if the board is of the opinion that the applicant has
complied with the requirements of subsection (1).


(3)  If the board is of the opinion that the applicant should
be licensed under the Act but the applicant is temporarily unable
to comply with one or more requirements under subsection (1), the
board may issue a temporary licence for one or more periods of 90
days.





Out of Province applicants



5.1

(1)  In this section
"in good standing"
means, in relation to an emergency medical assistant or person of
equivalent status not licensed in British Columbia, a person who


(a) is registered as an emergency medical assistant in
another jurisdiction without any conditions, sanctions or
restrictions imposed on that registration as a result of
determinations made from a review of any patient care complaint,


(b) is not the subject of an investigation or pending hearing
relating to any patient care complaint, and


(c) has not, for reasons of incompetence, incapacity or
misconduct,

(i)  resigned,

(ii)  had conditions placed on his or her registration, or


(iii)  had his or her registration cancelled.


(2)  A person from another jurisdiction in Canada who


(a) is an emergency medical assistant in a jurisdiction
outside of British Columbia or, in the opinion of the board, is
the equivalent of an emergency medical assistant in that other
jurisdiction,


(b) is in good standing in that other jurisdiction, and


(c) meets the requirements of section 5 (1) (a), (b) and (d)


may apply for a licence and is, subject to subsection (3),
entitled to be licensed as an EMA in the category for which he or
she is qualified.


(3)  If the applicant under subsection (2) originates from a
jurisdiction in which, in the opinion of the board, the training
or scope of practice, or both training and scope of practice, is
not equivalent to that in British Columbia, the board may require
the applicant to complete any upgrading courses, education or
examinations that the board considers necessary to ensure that the
applicant is competent to be an EMA.

[en. B.C. Reg. 246/2001.]




Categories of licence



6

The board may only issue licences in categories EMA FR, EMA FA,
EMA 1, EMA 2, EMA 3 (ALS) or EMA 3 (ITT), all as described in
Schedule A.





Term of licence



7

Except in the case of a temporary licence issued under section 5
(3),


(a) a licence in category EMA FA, EMA 1, EMA 2, EMA 3 (ALS)
or EMA 3 (ITT) expires 5 years after the date it was issued by the
Board, and


(b) a licence in category EMA FR expires 3 years after the
date it was issued by the Board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 125/2000, s. 2.]




Requirement respecting active employment



8

It is a condition of every licence that active employment in
British Columbia must not be interrupted by any continuous period
greater than 6 months in which an EMA is not available for active
employment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 125/2000, s. 3.]




Requirement to maintain qualifications for licence



9

It is a condition of every licence that an EMA must continuously
maintain the qualifications required under Schedule A for the
category of licence that has been issued to the EMA by the board.





Resumption of active employment



10

(1)  If active employment in British Columbia has been
interrupted for a continuous period greater than 6 months, the EMA
shall not be permitted to resume active employment until he or she
has complied with any or all of the following requirements as may
be ordered by the board for the EMA's category of licence:


(a) for an EMA FR or EMA FA licence, the EMA must
successfully complete written and practical tests evaluating basic
skill and knowledge;

(b) for an EMA 1 licence, the EMA must

(i)  successfully complete an oral or written examination, or
both an oral and written examination, and


(ii)  successfully complete 2 practical examinations;

(c) for an EMA 2 licence, the EMA must

(i)  attend a training course approved by the board,


(ii)  successfully complete 4 practical scenarios,


(iii)  give a proper demonstration of any endorsement skills
held, and


(iv)  complete an on-car internship with preceptor for not
less than 3 months if required by the board;


(d) for an EMA 3 (ALS) licence, the EMA must


(i)  complete the requirements under paragraph (c),


(ii)  perform in-hospital practice involving advanced
emergency techniques, and


(iii)  complete a chart review by the local medical
coordinator;


(e) for an EMA 3 (ITT) licence, the EMA must


(i)  complete the requirements under paragraph (c),


(ii)  perform in-hospital practice involving advanced
emergency techniques, and


(iii)  satisfactorily complete ITT skills evaluated by the
ITT program coordinator.


(2)  If, in the opinion of the board, the EMA fails to comply
with the requirements ordered under subsection (1), the EMA shall
not return to active employment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 125/2000, s. 5.]




Renewal of licence



11

(1)  An EMA shall apply to the board to renew a licence in
the manner provided by the rules.


(2)  No EMA shall be eligible to renew a licence under this
section unless the EMA has complied with sections 23 and 24 during
the term of his or her licence.


(3)  The board shall renew for a further 3 year period a
licence in category EMA FR which expires under section 7 if the
EMA successfully completes written, oral and practical
examinations as may be required by the board.


(4)  The board shall renew for a further 5 year period a
licence in the category of EMA FA or EMA 1 that expires under
section 7 if


(a) the board is satisfied that the EMA has a valid
occupational first aid certificate issued under the
Workers Compensation Act
, or


(b) the EMA has successfully completed the applicable
continuing medical education model.


(5)  The board shall renew for a further 5 year period a
licence in the category of EMA 2, EMA 3 (ALS) or EMA 3 (ITT) that
expires under section 7 if the EMA has successfully completed the
applicable continuing medical education model.


(6)  Despite subsections (4) and (5), the board may require
that an EMA satisfy the board of the EMA's suitability and
competence before renewing a licence referred to in those
subsections and for that purpose may require that the EMA
successfully complete written, oral or practical examinations
specified by the board if


(a) the EMA's active employment as an EMA has been
interrupted for a period of at least 6 months and the EMA has not
met the requirements of section 10, or


(b) the board has reason to believe that the EMA is not
maintaining safe or acceptable practices or competencies.


(7)  Despite subsections (4) and (5), the board may renew a
license referred to in those subsections for a further 5 year
period for an EMA who does not meet the requirements of those
subsections if the board is satisfied with respect to the EMA's
suitability and competence and for that purpose may require that
the EMA successfully complete written, oral or practical
examinations specified by the board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2001, s. 3.]




Reinstatement



12

The board may reinstate the licence of a former EMA if


(a) the board is of the opinion that reinstatement would not
constitute a risk to patient health or safety, and


(b) the former EMA successfully completes training and
written, oral and practical examinations as may be required by the
board.





Special reinstatement



12.1

(1)  The board may reinstate the licence of a former EMA for
a period of up to 90 days if the board is satisfied that


(a) section 12 does not apply in the circumstances, and


(b) the reinstatement is in the public interest.


(2)  The board may act under subsection (1) on more than one
occasion respecting a former EMA.

[en. B.C. Reg. 77/2001.]



Part 3 - Examinations




Examinations



13

(1)  An examination required by this regulation shall be
prepared or approved by the board.


(2)  The board shall determine or approve the time and place
for the holding of each examination.


(3)  An applicant for initial registration as an EMA, or an
EMA who applies to renew a licence or to rescind the suspension of
a licence for the purposes of active employment, must attend any
examination that he or she has been requested by the board to
attend.


(4)  The minimum passing grade for an examination is 60% for
all licence categories.


(5)  If an EMA does not on the first attempt pass the
examinations required for relicensing, the board may require that
the EMA only provide pre-hospital emergency care at his or her
level with proper supervision.


(6)  The board may extend the period of time referred to in
sections 14 to 16 if, in the opinion of the board, extraordinary
circumstances justify an extension and no risk to the patient
health or safety would result from the extension.


(7)  If an applicant or an EMA, without consent of the board,
fails to attend an examination that he or she has been requested
by the board to attend, the applicant or EMA shall be deemed to
have taken and failed that examination.


(8)  The board shall not unreasonably withhold its consent
under subsection (7).


(9)  If an applicant or an EMA fails an examination, the
board may require that the applicant or EMA participate in an
upgrading program before being permitted to take any further
examinations.


(10)  If an EMA fails an examination and the board is of the
opinion that there could be risk to patient care, the board may
either suspend the EMA's licence or attach terms and conditions to
the EMA's licence.





EMA FR, EMA FA and EMA 1 licence



14

(1)  An EMA who fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
to resume active employment or renew or reinstate in respect of an
EMA FR, EMA FA or EMA 1 licence shall be given 2 further
opportunities to comply during the 60 day period immediately
following the failure of a requirement or a longer time as may be
approved by the board.


(2)  If the EMA fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
after the third attempt, the board shall revoke the EMA's licence.





EMA 2 licence



15

(1)  An EMA who fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
to resume active employment or renew or reinstate in respect of an
EMA 2 licence shall be given 2 further opportunities to comply
during the 90 day period immediately following the failure of a
requirement or a longer time as may be approved by the board.


(2)  For the purpose of subsection (1), employment of the EMA
under an EMA 2 licence shall be restricted to a supervised
environment until the minimum qualifications are met.


(3)  If the EMA fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
after the third attempt, the board shall revoke the EMA's licence.





EMA 3 (ALS) and EMA 3 (ITT) licence



16

(1)  An EMA who fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
to resume active employment or renew or reinstate in respect of an
EMA 3 (ALS) or EMA 3 (ITT) licence shall be given one further
opportunity to comply during the 30 day period immediately
following the failure of a requirement or a longer time as may be
approved by the board.


(2)  If the EMA fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
after the second attempt, the qualifications of the EMA shall be
deemed reduced to that of an EMA 2 licence for a period not to
exceed 90 days.


(3)  During the 90 day period under subsection (2), the EMA
shall be given a third opportunity to achieve the minimum
qualifications.


(4)  If the EMA fails to achieve the minimum qualifications
after the third attempt, the board shall cancel the registration
of the EMA 3 (ALS) or EMA 3 (ITT) licence and, subject to
compliance with this Part, the EMA shall be registered as an EMA
2.




Part 3.1 - State of Washington Emergency Medical
Assistants




State of Washington emergency medical assistants



16.1

(1)  The board may issue a licence collectively recognizing
as emergency medical assistants all persons certified under
chapter 18.71 and 18.73 of the Revised Code of Washington of
Washington State, one of the United States of America, to provide
the emergency health services described in this section.


(2)  The emergency health services to be authorized by a
licence under subsection (1) are restricted to emergency health
services that the persons referred to in subsection (1)


(a) are authorized to provide in the State of Washington,


(b) provide under the supervision and control required by the
terms of their certification in the State of Washington, and


(c) provide in British Columbia while transporting patients
from the United States of America to medical facilities in British
Columbia or the United States of America.


(3)  The other provisions of this regulation do not apply to
persons covered by a licence under this section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 240/95.]



Part 4 - Miscellaneous




Approved training programs



17

The training required for each category of licence or for any
endorsement of a licence must be given by persons or organizations
with whom or with which the commission has entered into an
agreement or arrangement under the authority of section 5 (1) (c)
of the Act.





Qualifications for advanced training programs



18

An EMA who wishes to qualify as an EMA 3 (ALS) or EMA 3 (ITT) must


(a) possess relevant experience recognized by the commission,

(b) maintain a satisfactory work record,

(c) participate in an interview for the appropriate advanced
medical course, and


(d) pass a written and oral entrance examination.





Performance of advanced skills



19

The board may require an advanced EMA to pass an examination set
by the board before performing any advanced medical procedures if
the advanced EMA has not been in active practice in his or her
category of training during the previous 3 months.





Restrictions on a licence



20

The board may restrict the use of procedures under a category of
licence if geographical or other considerations require
limitations on that use.





Endorsement of other skills



21

The board may endorse a licence to permit the use of skills in
addition to those identified in Schedules B to G for that category
of licence.





Intravenous starts



22

(1)  Every EMA 2 who is qualified to perform unsupervised
intravenous starts must successfully perform not less than 15
intravenous starts during each 12 month period commencing on April
1 in the year immediately following qualification.


(2)  If the EMA fails to comply with subsection (1), the
board may restrict the use of procedures under the EMA 2 licence.





Misconduct



23

No EMA shall behave in a manner that could reasonably be expected
to have a detrimental effect on patient health or safety.





Condition of licence



24

It is a term and condition of every licence that


(a) an EMA complies with the Act and this regulation,


(b) an EMA must not work in a licence category for which he
or she is not licensed, and


(c) an EMA maintains the minimum number of calls in
accordance with Board policy.

[am. B.C. Reg. 125/2000, s. 4.]




EMA board member



25

For the purpose of section 6 of the Act, the EMA selected to sit
on the board will be nominated by Local 873 of the Canadian Union
of Public Employees.




Schedule A

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2001, s. 1.]

Qualifications for Licence Categories


1
EMA FR
: This category of licence requires an EMA to have



(a) employment with
(i)  a police force,
(ii)  a fire department, or

(iii)  an agency approved by the commission,


(b) successfully completed the required level 1, 2 or 3
training, as determined by the employer, for an EMA FR licence as
set out in Schedule B, and

(c) passed the required examinations.


2
EMA FA
: This category of licence requires an EMA to have



(a) acquired and maintained

(i)  an occupational first aid certificate issued under the
Workers Compensation Act
, or


(ii)  first aid certification equivalent to that under
subparagraph (i) determined by the board to be sufficient,

(b) employment
(i)  with the commission, or

(ii)  with a contractor who has a contract for service with
the commission, and


(c) successfully completed the required training for an EMA
FA licence as set out in Schedule C.



3
EMA 1
: This category of licence requires an EMA to have



(a) acquired and maintained

(i)  an occupational first aid certificate issued under the
Workers Compensation Act
, or


(ii)  first aid certification equivalent to that under
subparagraph (i) determined by the board to be sufficient,

(b) employment
(i)  with the commission, or

(ii)  with a contractor who has a contract for service with
the commission,


(c) successfully completed the required training for an EMA 1
licence as set out in Schedule D, and

(d) passed the required examinations.


4
EMA 2
: This category of licence requires an EMA to have



(a) a valid EMA 1 licence,
(b) employment
(i)  with the commission, or

(ii)  with a contractor who, on the day this regulation comes
into force, has a valid and subsisting contract for service with
the commission,

(c) completed at least 25 ambulance calls,

(d) successfully completed the required training for an EMA 2
licence as set out in Schedule E, and

(e) passed the required examinations.


5
EMA 3 (ALS)
and
EMA 3 (ITT)
: This category of licence requires an EMA to have



(a) a valid EMA 2 licence,
(b) employment with the commission, and

(c) successfully completed the ALS training course or the ITT
training course and passed the required examinations for a licence
in one of the following categories:


(i)  for EMA 3 (ALS) as set out in Schedule F;


(ii)  for EMA 3 (ITT) as set out in Schedule G.




Schedule B


EMA FR — First Responder Training Requirements




1 Length of training course: 4 to 32 hours depending on level of
training.

2 Course content:

Level 1


(a) knowledge and demonstrated practical skill in initial
patient assessment and basic patient management, until more
qualified EMA help becomes available, including the following:


(i)  scene assessment including environment, hazards and
mechanism of injury;

(ii)  primary survey;

(iii)  spine immobilization in position found;

(iv)  opening and maintaining an airway;

(v)  assessment of breathing adequacy and ventilation by
mouth to pocket mask;


(b) knowledge of legislation related to pre-hospital care;


(c) knowledge and demonstrated practical skill in handling
trauma including head and neck injuries, chest injuries, fractures
and dislocations, until more qualified EMA help becomes available.


Level 2


(a) all of the content requirements under Level 1;


(b) recognition and treatment of abdominal and burn injuries;


(c) knowledge and demonstrated practical skill in more
advanced spine, airway and breathing management techniques, until
more qualified EMA help becomes available.


Level 3


(a) all of the content requirements under Levels 1 and 2;


(b) knowledge and demonstrated practical skill in handling
medical and environmental emergencies until more qualified EMA
help becomes available.




Schedule C

[am. B.C. Reg. 262/2001, s. 1.]


EMA FA — Occupational First Aid Training Requirements





1 Length of training course: approximately 70 hours

2 Course content:

(a) knowledge and practical skill in scene assessment as well
as initial and secondary patient assessment and vital sign
monitoring;


(b) knowledge of life support systems and practical skill in
upper airway maintenance, artificial ventilation, use of
oropharyngeal airway, use of manual self-inflating bag ventilators
and administration of oxygen;


(c) knowledge and practical skill in cardiopulmonary
resuscitation and assessment of circulation;


(d) knowledge and practical skill in basic wound care,
immobilization of fractures, and basic management of epileptic,
diabetic, cerebrovascular and cardiac disorders;


(e) knowledge and practical skill in patient extrication,
handling and transport, management of potential cervical and other
spine injuries, and lifting and moving techniques;


(f) knowledge of accurate reporting methods and documentation
of patient information.




Schedule D


EMA 1 Training Requirements



1 Length of training course: 80 hours.
2 Course content:

(a) safe lifting and specific types of lifts used in the
ambulance service;


(b) use, care and maintenance of ambulance equipment;


(c) forms of technical communication within the ambulance
service and approaches to interpersonal communications in an
ambulance setting;


(d) theory of safe driving, regulations governing driving,
and practical exposure to emergency driving conditions;


(e) knowledge of anatomy and physiology, such that knowledge
of surface features will support patient assessment and treatment
skills;


(f) assessment of the situation surrounding a call for
service and the extent of a person's injury or medical condition
and reporting this information clearly in accordance with standard
medical guidelines;


(g) understanding and management of land, sea and air patient
transport as appropriate to the EMA's scope of practice.




Schedule E


EMA 2 Training Requirements



1 Length of training course: 240 hours.
2 Course content:

(a) anatomy, physiology, pathology and pharmacology, as they
relate to injuries or medical conditions;


(b) knowledge of, and practical experience in, basic rescue
and extrication of sick or injured patients;


(c) general study of, and practical experience in, ambulance
work including care of the elderly, extended transfer, psychology
of intervention (abusive or hostile individuals), care of the
dead, infection control, medical-legal aspects of ambulance work
and coordination with other emergency services;


(d) filing standardized reports, in a form fixed by the
commission, with the receiving hospital and the commission;


(e) knowledge of, and practical experience in, the use of
automatic external defibrillators;


(f) understanding and management of land, sea and air patient
transport as appropriate to the EMA's scope of practice;


(g) a minimum of 10 hours of theoretical and practical
training in a format determined by the board with respect to
intravenous procedures including the following:


(i)  performing a critical examination of patients suffering
from traumatic injuries and making a reasonable diagnosis;

(ii)  beginning an intravenous infusion;

(iii)  a minimum of 25 supervised intravenous starts in a
hospital approved by the board for that purpose, and


(iv)  intravenously administering nutrient and electrolyte
solutions as required by the clinical situation.




Schedule F



EMA 3 (ALS) — Advanced Life Support Training Requirements




1 Length of training course: 56 weeks.
2 Course content:

(a) recognition and interpretation of cardiac dysrhythmias
and understanding the principles of therapy for life threatening
cardiac situations;


(b) recognition of various forms of acute respiratory failure
and understanding the therapy for life threatening respiratory
disorders;


(c) treating those situations outlined in paragraphs (a) and
(b) by appropriate techniques including the administration of the
appropriate drugs designated by the local medical coordinator;


(d) operation of a D.C. defibrillator under appropriate life
threatening conditions;


(e) receiving directions on administering drugs from a
medical practitioner;


(f) treatment of other life threatening disorders as directed
by a medical practitioner with due attention to current medical
standards and patient safety;


(g) understanding and management of land, sea and air patient
transport as appropriate to the EMA's scope of practice.




Schedule G



EMA 3 (ITT) — Infant Transport Team Training Requirements




1 Length of training course: 18 months.
2 Course content:

(a) recognition of normal and abnormal obstetrical, neonatal
and pediatric care;


(b) collection of patient history and performance of a
physical assessment on both normal and abnormal infants, children
and high risk obstetrical patients;


(c) interpretation and effective communication of the
information in paragraphs (a) and (b) to medical and nursing staff
in the appropriate unit;


(d) sensitive and appropriate communication of the patient's
problems to immediate family;


(e) initiation of stabilization or emergency treatment prior
to and during transportation of an infant, child or high risk
obstetrical patient both with and without the assistance or
direction of other health care professionals;


(f) safe operation of all equipment required to support the
patient being transported;


(g) understanding and management of land, sea and air patient
transport as appropriate to the EMA's scope of practice.



Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 239/82.


[Provisions of the
Health Emergency Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 182, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 14]





