




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Local Services Act


Community Planning Area No. 28 Dease Lake Mobile Home Park Regulation,
1991

B.C. Reg. 80/91





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 311/2008, effective December 1,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 80/91

M52/91


Deposited March 21, 1991






Local Services Act



Community Planning Area No. 28

Dease Lake Mobile Home Park Regulation, 1991





Division 1 - Application




Purpose



1

The purpose of this regulation is to control the establishment,
extension, design and servicing of mobile home parks in Community
Planning Area No. 28 (Dease Lake), under section 694 of the
Municipal Act
.





Application



2

Under the provisions of the
Local Services Act
, of section 694 (1) (j) of the
Municipal Act
and section 28 (9) of the Dease Lake Land Use Regulation, 1991,
this regulation applies to Community Planning Area No. 28 (Dease
Lake).




Division 2 - Interpretation




Interpretation



3

In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:


"ancillary building"
means a building for the common use of the tenants of a mobile
home park and includes recreation buildings, laundry and other
service facilities;


"approval"
means approval in writing;


"buffer area"
means a setback of not less than 15 metres between the boundary of
a mobile home park and a mobile home space;


"medical health officer"
means the medical health officer appointed under the
Health Act
for the territorial jurisdiction of the area in which a mobile
home park is located;


"minister"
means the Minister of Municipal Affairs;


"mobile home"
means a dwelling unit that


(a) is equipped with a water closet and a bathtub or shower,
waste from which may be disposed of directly into a sewer,


(b) is manufactured as a unit or units intended to be
occupied, in a place other than its place of manufacture, on a
year round and long term basis,


(c) may be designed with detachable towing gear, and


(d) may be quickly readied for occupancy on the site by
placing it on a foundation, connecting utilities and undertaking
incidental assembly;


"mobile home pad"
means that portion of a mobile home space paved to support
footings or a foundation for a mobile home, and includes service
connections;


"mobile home park"
means 3 or more mobile homes on a parcel of land but does not
include


(a) a parcel of land on which every occupied mobile home is
more than 30 metres from

(i)  a parcel boundary, and

(ii)  another mobile home on the same parcel, or


(b) the storage of unoccupied mobile homes on the parcel;


"mobile home space"
means an area of land for the installation of one mobile home with
permissible additions;


"owner"
means an owner, as defined in the
Municipal Act
, who operates a mobile home park;


"potable water"
means water which is certified for drinking purposes by the
Ministry of Health;


"professional person"
means an applied science technologist (A.Sc.T.), a certified
technician (C.Tech.), a professional engineer (P.Eng.) or an
architect, each of which is registered or licensed to practice in
British Columbia and has competence in the appropriate discipline;


"roadway"
means an allowance within a mobile home park, part or all of which
is made suitable for normal vehicular use so that vehicles can
gain access to abutting mobile home spaces.




Division 3 - Administration




Permit required



4

A mobile home park permit issued under this regulation is required
before a mobile home may be installed in a new, extended or
altered mobile home park.





Professional to design



5

Every new, extended or altered mobile home park shall


(a) be designed by a professional person in accordance with
this regulation, and


(b) be constructed under the supervision of a professional
person.





Application for permit



6

An application for a mobile home park permit shall be made in
writing by the owner to the Municipal Development Services Branch

1

, Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Recreation and Culture, 800
Johnson Street, Victoria, B.C. V8V 1X4, and shall be accompanied
by the following:


(a) 2 signed and sealed copies of all as-constructed plans
and specifications of the new mobile home park or the extension or
alteration;


(b) 2 copies of each authorization applicable to the mobile
home park for


(i)  access to a highway under the
Transportation Act
,


(ii)  sewage disposal under the
Health Act
, and


(iii)  sewage discharge under the
Waste Management Act
;


(c) 2 copies of the approval of the water system required by
section 25 (3) of this regulation;


(d) 2 copies of a statement signed and sealed by each
professional person who designed or supervised the construction of
the mobile home park stating that the design and construction is
in accordance with this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 555/2004, s. 1.]




As-constructed drawing content



7

The as-constructed drawings of the mobile home park required by
section 6 (a) shall show, as a minimum, the following information:


(a) the area dimensions, the legal description of the parcel
of land, and the name of the zone under the Dease Lake Land Use
Regulation, 1991, in which the mobile home park is located;


(b) the dimension and location of the buffer area;


(c) the number, location, dimensions and designation of all
mobile home spaces and the location and dimensions of all roadways
and recreation areas;


(d) the dimensions and location of all ancillary buildings,
other structures and the owner's residence, if any;


(e) the internal layouts of all ancillary buildings and other
structures;


(f) the location and details of the source of water,
treatment plants, water distribution lines and outlets;


(g) the location and details of all connections to the sewer,
sewer lines, septic tank or tanks, and subsurface disposal field
or other private sewage treatment plants and disposal methods;


(h) the location and details of all on-site garbage and
refuse disposal areas;


(i) a north arrow and notation of the scales used;


(j) all water courses or water frontage within or adjacent to
the land concerned;


(k) all steep banks or slopes within or adjacent to the
mobile home park;


(l) the relationship of the mobile home park to adjacent
roads and parcel boundaries.





Prohibitions



8

No person shall


(a) locate, establish, construct, alter, extend, expand,
subdivide or operate a mobile home park, or


(b) cause or allow a mobile home to be parked or to remain in
a mobile home park,

in contravention of this regulation.




Severability



9

If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or clause of
this regulation is for any reason held to be invalid by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
does not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
regulation.




Division 4 - Design and Layout Standards




Location of mobile home



10

(1)  All parts of every parcel of land included in a mobile
home park shall

(a) be contiguous,

(b) be well drained and free at all times of stagnant pools
of water, and

(c) be graded for rapid drainage.

(2)  Every mobile home in a mobile home park shall be in a
mobile home space.


(3)  Every mobile home in a mobile home park shall be
supported by double blocking consisting of a system of support
blocking in which blocks of alternate courses are placed at 90º to
one another.





Mobile home space



11

(1)  The minimum area for a mobile home space in a mobile
home park shall be 465 square metres.


(2)  The minimum frontage of each mobile home space abutting
an internal roadway shall be 12 metres, except for a mobile home
space abutting a cul-de-sac or a panhandle mobile home space in
which case the minimum frontage shall be 6 metres.


(3)  Each corner of a mobile home space shall be clearly
marked by a post not less than 50 cm high.

(4)  Every mobile home space shall
(a) be drained properly,
(b) be clearly numbered, and

(c) have a mobile home pad that is surfaced with asphalt or
concrete pavement.


(5)  Every mobile home pad shall have a maximum 6º
longitudinal or 15º cross or crown gradient, or a combination of
both longitudinal and cross or crown gradient.





Site coverage



12

A mobile home and any addition to it, exclusive of a carport,
shall not cover more than 35% of the mobile home space upon which
it is installed in a mobile home park.





Buffer areas



13

(1)  A buffer area shall include sufficient trees and shrubs
to create a visual barrier.


(2)  The following shall not be located within the buffer
area:


(a) recreation or service areas, except for waterfront
recreation or waterfront amenity areas;


(b) buildings or structures erected or placed, except


(i)  a sign which may only be placed within 7.6 metres of a
public highway,

(ii)  a fence, and
(iii)  a wall;
(c) garbage disposal areas;

(d) any part of a private sewage disposal system;

(e) vehicle parking areas.

(3)  The only roads permitted in the buffer area are those
that cross it as close to right angles as practicable and that are
directly connected to the roadway system contained within the
remainder of the mobile home park.


(4)  No road shall traverse the buffer area so as to give
direct access from a public highway to any mobile home space.


(5)  Notwithstanding the definition of buffer area in section
3, if a mobile home park is separated from neighbouring property
by a body of water the mobile home park boundary is deemed to be
the centre line of that body of water for the purpose of
establishing the buffer area.





Recreation area



14

(1)  Not less than 5% of the gross site area of a mobile home
park shall be provided for recreational use by the residents of
the mobile home park and shall be in a convenient and accessible
location.


(2)  For the purpose of calculating recreational space
requirements under subsection (1), any indoor recreational space
that is provided may be counted as double its actual area.


(3)  The recreation area does not include buffer areas,
parking areas, any part of an ancillary building not designated as
recreational space, mobile home spaces, roadways or storage areas.


(4)  If more than 1 000 square metres is required for
recreation purposes, the area may be divided into 2 or more
recreation areas.


(5)  Recreation areas, except indoor recreation facilities,
shall be no more than 50% asphalt surface and the remainder shall
be properly landscaped.





Access



15

(1)  No person shall establish or extend a mobile home park
unless access from a public highway to the mobile home park is
approved by the Ministry of Transportation and Highways.


(2)  A second access from a public highway, separated by at
least 60 metres from the first access, shall be provided to each
mobile home park containing 50 or more mobile home spaces.





Roadways



16

(1)  Every mobile home space, storage area, service building,
and any other facility that requires access, shall have access
from the internal roadway system of a mobile home park.


(2)  The minimum roadway width requirements in the mobile
home park are as follows:


(a) roadways for access to and from the mobile home park may
not be less than 15 metres wide with a minimum surfaced width of
6.7 metres;

(b) roadways

(i)  with parking on both sides shall have a minimum surfaced
width of 11 metres and a roadway of 15 metres,


(ii)  with parking on one side shall have a minimum surfaced
width of 8.5 metres and a roadway of 12 metres, and


(iii)  with no parking shall have a minimum surfaced width of
6 metres and roadway of 12 metres.


(3)  Every road in the mobile home park shall be paved and
well drained.


(4)  Dead end roadways that provide access to mobile homes
may only be used


(a) when more than one access roadway to an area of mobile
homes is impracticable because of difficult terrain or a natural
feature, or


(b) to allow for the future extension of the mobile home
park.


(5)  Dead end roadways shall have a turning circle at the
furthest end with a minimum radius of 12 metres.


(6)  Roads shall be adapted to the topography and shall have
a maximum gradient of 10%.





Off roadway parking



17

(1)  Two motor vehicle parking spaces shall be provided on or
near each mobile home space in a mobile home park.


(2)  In addition to the requirement of subsection (1), for
every 2 mobile homes spaces, one additional parking space shall be
provided.


(3)  Every parking space shall be easily accessible, level,
graded for proper drainage, free of mud and paved or dust free.





Street lighting



18

Street lighting shall be installed in a mobile home park to
provide to the travelled portion of the roadway an average
horizontal illumination of 3 lux with a uniformity ratio of 6:1
(average to minimum illumination with a maintenance factor of
0.9).





Signs



19

Identification signs may be located at the principal entrance to a
mobile home park and shall not exceed


(a) a height of 1.8 metres above ground, and


(b) a total area of 3 square metres for all signs erected.





Yards and heights



20

(1)  No mobile home or addition to a mobile home in a mobile
home park may be located within 9 metres of another mobile home or
addition thereto.


(2)  No part of a mobile home or addition to a mobile home
shall be located


(a) within 1.8 metres of internal roadway or common parking
area, and


(b) within 1.5 metres of rear and side mobile home space
lines.


(3)  No building or structure in a mobile home park shall
exceed 7.6 metres in height.





Mobile home space



21

Only one mobile home shall be located on a mobile home space in a
mobile home park.





Permissible additions



22

(1)  No addition to a mobile home is permitted in a mobile
home park except as follows:

(a) a carport;

(b) a roof to shelter a mobile home against sun, rain or
snow;


(c) vestibules of a maximum size of 3.7 square metres;


(d) rooms (cabanas) added to a mobile home where


(i)  the additional room has an exit or an access to exit
other than through the mobile home, and


(ii)  in all cases the means of egress from the mobile home
or additional room is not restricted or diminished by any part of
the addition.


(2)  Additions to a mobile home, exclusive of a carport,
shall not be larger in area than 20% of the floor area of the
mobile home excluding vestibules, attics and crawl or duct spaces.





Tenant storage



23

One separate storage structure is permitted on each mobile home
space in a mobile home park if the structure


(a) is no more than 25 cubic metres in volume,


(b) does not exceed 2.4 metres in height, and


(c) is not less than 9 metres from a mobile home or an
adjoining mobile home space.





Ancillary buildings



24

Ancillary buildings in a mobile home park shall


(a) be located at least 7.5 metres from any mobile home
space,


(b) be of permanent construction and adequately lighted,


(c) have walls, floors and partitions that can be easily
cleaned,


(d) have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings
effectively screened, and


(e) if toilet facilities are required, have separate
facilities for males and females.





Water supply



25

(1)  The owner of a mobile home park shall provide a water
supply system and furnish potable water to each mobile home space.


(2)  The water supplied by the system shall be constant and
potable, with a minimum working pressure of 200 kPa at all outlets
at maximum operating conditions and a maximum pressure of 300 kPa.


(3)  The water supply system required by subsection (1) shall
be designed and installed in accordance with this regulation and
the British Columbia Plumbing Code, 1985, and shall be approved by
the Ministry of Health under the
Health Act
.


(4)  Potable water shall be distributed in the mobile home
park to

(a) each mobile home space,
(b) each ancillary building, if required,
(c) all hose bibs, and
(d) all stand pipes or hydrants.

(5)  Water shall not be distributed to any terminal in the
mobile home park from which water would not be intercepted by an
approved sewage fixture, except hose bibs, stand pipes and
hydrants.


(6)  For design purposes each mobile home in a mobile home
park shall be considered as having a hydraulic load of 15 fixture
units, and each branch line serving a mobile home shall have a
minimum diameter of 3/4 inch.


(7)  A backflow preventer shall be installed on each water
distribution branch line serving a mobile home space in a mobile
home park.


(8)  All terminals on branch lines serving mobile home spaces
and all stand pipes and hydrants in a mobile home park shall be
protected from mechanical damage.


(9)  All parts of the water supply system in a mobile home
park shall have adequate cover to protect the water in it from
freezing.


(10)  Except for branch lines to mobile home spaces and
service buildings, all parts of the water supply system
distributing water in a mobile home park shall be in a roadway.





Sewer system



26

(1)  The owner of a mobile home park shall dispose of all
sewage and waste water that is generated within the mobile home
park by providing a sewer system that is connected to all plumbing
fixtures and sewer laterals in the mobile home park.


(2)  The sewer system required by subsection (1) shall be
designed and installed in accordance with this regulation and the
British Columbia Plumbing Code, 1985

2

.


(3)  Every mobile home space in the mobile home park shall
have a lateral sewer terminus which is protected from mechanical
damage and storm water infiltration.


(4)  The terminus shall be gas tight with threaded and "quick
change" adapter couplers not requiring any special tools or
knowledge to make the connection, designed and installed to
receive sewage discharge from a mobile home drain that slopes
constantly at a minimum of 1:50 from the mobile home.


(5)  Every sewer terminus in the sewer system shall have a
trap and a vent which shall extend 3 metres above the surrounding
grade.


(6)  Outdoor vents shall be securely fastened to a post not
less than 89 mm x 89 mm which shall be completely wood
preservative treated and securely embedded in the ground or have
equivalent support.


(7)  Cleanouts shall be installed throughout the sewer system
in accordance with the requirements of the British Columbia
Plumbing Code, 1985.


(8)  For the purpose of designing the sewer system, each
sewer terminus shall be considered as having a hydraulic load of
15 fixture units.


(9)  All parts of the sewer system in a mobile home park
shall have adequate cover to protect the sewage and waste water in
it from freezing.


(10)  Except for lateral sewers to terminals in mobile home
spaces and service buildings, all parts of the sewer system
collecting effluent in a mobile home park shall be in a roadway.





Sewage disposal



27

(1)  The owner of a mobile home park shall dispose of all
sewage and waste water from a sewer system by causing the sewer
system to discharge into a public or into a private sewage
disposal system.


(2)  The design and installation of a private sewage disposal
system shall conform to requirements under the
Health Act
or the
Waste Management Act
, as the case may be.





Garbage facilities



28

(1)  If the owner of a mobile home park establishes one or
more depots within the mobile home park for the collection of
garbage and refuse, the owner shall provide one fly tight metal
container for each mobile home space.


(2)  Any container provided under subsection (1) shall be
supported in a manner that makes it very difficult for an animal
to open and remove garbage or refuse.






1.


now called Planning Advice and Approvals Branch, Ministry of
Municipal Affairs, PO Box 9490 Stn Prov. Gov't, Victoria, B.C.
V8W 9N7








2.


see now
British Columbia Building Code Regulation, B.C. Reg. 295/98





[Provisions of the
Local Services Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 276, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 4]





