




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Assessment Act


Application by Owner and Occupier of Eligible Residential Property

B.C. Reg. 240/96





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 262/2022, effective December 1,
2022.





B.C. Reg. 240/96

Assessment Commissioner


Deposited September 5, 1996






Assessment Act



Application by Owner and Occupier of Eligible Residential Property






Form of notice




1


The notice referred to in section 19 (8) of the Act must be made
in the attached form.






BC Assessment






Application

by Owner and Occupier of Eligible

Residential Property

for Assessment to be Based on Residential Use


Assessment Act, Section 19 (8)


DEADLINE: Please return this form to

your local BC

Assessment office

by January 31.





Information about the Owner and Occupier of the property (please
print)

PLEASE RETURN TO:




Name




Telephone

Number

Home:
Office:




Information about the Property (please print)




Property Address




Assessment Roll Number of Property

(see assessment notice)




Number of years you have owned this property


Number of years you have continuously

lived on this property





The property is not more than 2.03 ha (5.02 acres) in area, is
used only for residential purposes, accommodates three (3) or
fewer families and has on it: (check in appropriate square)





a single family residence





a two-family residence





a single family or two-family residence containing
housekeeping or sleeping rooms





a residence containing not more than three self-contained
suites





Other

Describe:








By signing below, I, the owner of this property,




1) am applying for the assessment on this property to be based
on residential use, and




2) am stating that I have owned and lived on this property
continuously for 10 years and that this property has been my
principal place of residence during that entire 10 year
period*.




* This means that to qualify for assessment relief
next year
an owner must have owned and occupied their property for at
least 10 years ending October 31 of
this year
.




Date
.................................................................
Signature
.........................................................








This form should be completed by the owner and occupier of the
property (as defined in the
Assessment Act
) and returned to the assessor of the assessment area where
the property is located (see above) by January 31 in each
year. If the form cannot be delivered by January 31, the
final deadline is March 15 (see
B.C. Reg. 30/93).








The information collected on this form is confidential and
will only be released if required by law. It is collected
under section 19 (8) of the
Assessment Act
and will be used to determine whether your property qualifies
for assessment relief under that section.


For

Office

Use

Only






area
jurisdiction
roll number



(It is an offence to make a false application)









Assessment Relief — Section 19 (8) of the
Assessment Act






What Assessment Relief is Provided Under Section 19 (8) of
the
Assessment Act
?



This section of the
Assessment Act
allows residential property to be assessed at a lower value if
the owner qualifies and the property has potential for
development.


Section 19 (8) deals with a residential property's existing
use versus its potential use. Over time, property tends to be
redeveloped into different uses, particularly residential
property that is close to urban areas.


Examples of residential property with the potential for
development are:


• a house located on land that has been rezoned for commercial
use (e.g., allowing for a store or office building), or

• a house located on a five-acre parcel which could be
developed into one-quarter acre lots.


Both examples could qualify for assessment relief.


Who Qualifies for Assessment Relief?


Residential property owners who have been living on property
which is less than 2.03 hectares (approximately 5 acres) for
more than 10 years, may be eligible for a lower property
assessment.


To qualify for assessment relief:


• the property must be the property owner's principal
residence.

• the owner must have owned and occupied the property
continuously for at least 10 years. In other words, to qualify
for assessment relief
next year
an owner must have owned and occupied their property for at
least 10 years ending October 31 of
this year
.


• the property's market value for another use must be higher
than the property's existing residential value.

• a completed application form must be submitted each year.

• additional qualifying criteria may be required.


Who Benefits from Assessment Relief?


Property owners living in communities or neighbourhoods where
land use is changing would benefit from assessment relief. If
eligible, the property owner's property will be valued at its
current "existing" use instead of its higher "potential" use.



Do All Long Term Property Owners Qualify for Assessment
Relief?



No. To qualify, the property's
demonstrated
market value must be higher than its current residential
value. For example, a home in a large residential subdivision,
surrounded by other residential dwellings, might not qualify
for relief under this section of the
Assessment Act
simply because the current use reflects the most valuable use
of the property.



How Do Property Owners Apply for Assessment Relief?



Owners must apply to their local assessment office each year.


Owners are advised to file their applications for assessment
relief at their local BC Assessment office by January 31 of
each year. This will ensure consideration for the current
Assessment Roll.


Note: A new application form must be completed each year.





How Do I Get More Information on Assessment Relief?



Application forms and additional information on assessment
relief may be obtained by calling your local BC Assessment
office which is listed in the White pages of your telephone
book.




BC Assessment







[Provisions of the
Assessment Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 20, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 19 (8)]





