




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Financial Institutions Act


Marketing of Financial Products Regulation

B.C. Reg. 333/90





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 573/2004, effective December
31, 2004.





B.C. Reg. 333/90

O.C. 1357/90


Deposited September 7, 1990

effective September 15, 1990





Financial Institutions Act


Marketing of Financial Products Regulation





Interpretation



1

In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Financial Institutions Act
;


"financial institution"
includes

(a) an extraprovincial corporation,

(b) a society that is deemed under section 191 of the Act to
have a business authorization, and


(c) a mutual fire insurance company as defined in section 188
of the Act.





Exception to tied selling prohibition



2

For the purpose of section 94 of the Act, the conduct described in
that section and commonly called tied selling is permitted only in
the following circumstances:


(a) the transaction is one under which the provision of a
service or a product can be facilitated by a person maintaining an
account with the financial institution;


(b) the only additional or other business required as a
condition of the transaction referred to in paragraph (a) is that
the person who receives the product or service must maintain an
account with the financial institution for the purpose of making
or receiving scheduled payments and associated costs.





Additional disclosure to customers — s. 90 (1) of the Act



3

(1)  For the purpose of section 90 (1) (d) of the Act, there
are no other particulars that must be disclosed to the customer in
writing by the financial institution.


(2)  For the purpose of section 90 (1) (d) of the Act, the
other particulars that must be disclosed to the customer in
writing by the person described in section 90 (1) (b) of the Act
are the particulars of


(a) the relationship between the person and the financial
institution,


(b) the nature and extent of any business or financial
interest that


(i)  the person has in the financial institution, and


(ii)  the financial institution has in the person,


(c) the nature and extent of whatever interest, if any, the
person has in the transaction, including, but not limited to,
whether the person has the right to receive a commission or other
remuneration in respect of the transaction,


(d) where a commission or other remuneration is payable, the
identity of the person paying it, and


(e) the prohibition against tied selling described in section
94 of the Act.


(3)  Subsection (2) does not apply to the person described in
section 90 (1) (b) of the Act if


(a) the person is licensed under the Act as an insurance
agent or insurance salesperson,


(b) the transaction is one in a series of continuing similar
transactions between the same customer and the same insurance
company or extraprovincial insurance corporation,


(c) in respect of the first transaction in the series of
transactions described in paragraph (b), the person has made the
disclosure required under subsection (2) to that customer, and


(d) the particulars that were disclosed in respect of the
first transaction are the same particulars which, if it were not
for this subsection, the person would be required to disclose
under subsection (2) to that customer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 180/92, s. 1.]




Additional disclosure to customers — s. 90 (2) of the Act



4

(1)  For the purpose of section 90 (2) (d) of the Act, the
other particulars that must be disclosed to the customer in
writing by a financial institution that arranges a transaction
described in section 90 of the Act are the particulars of


(a) the relationship between the financial institution and
the third party described in section 90 (2) of the Act,


(b) the nature and extent of any business or financial
interest that


(i)  the financial institution has in the third party
described in section 90 (2) of the Act, and


(ii)  the third party described in section 90 (2) of the Act
has in the financial institution,


(c) the nature and extent of whatever interest, if any, the
financial institution has in the transaction, including, but not
limited to, whether the financial institution has any right to
receive a commission or other remuneration in respect of the
transaction,


(d) where a commission or other remuneration is payable, the
identity of the person paying it, and


(e) the prohibition against tied selling described in section
94 of the Act.


(2)  For the purpose of section 90 (2) (d) of the Act, the
other particulars that must be disclosed to the customer in
writing by the person described in section 90 (2) (b) of the Act
who arranges a transaction described in section 90 (2) of the Act
are the particulars of


(a) the relationship between the person described in section
90 (2) (b) of the Act and

(i)  the financial institution, and

(ii)  the third party described in section 90 (2) of the Act,


(b) the nature and extent of any business or financial
interest that


(i)  the person described in section 90 (2) (b) of the Act
has in the financial institution and the third party,


(ii)  the financial institution has in the person described
in section 90 (2) (b) of the Act, and


(iii)  the third party has in the person described in section
90 (2) (b) of the Act,


(c) the nature and extent of whatever interest, if any, the
person described in section 90 (2) (b) of the Act has in the
transaction, including, but not limited to, whether the person has
the right to receive a commission or other remuneration in respect
of the transaction,


(d) where a commission or other remuneration is payable, the
identity of the person paying it, and


(e) the prohibition against tied selling described in section
94 of the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 180/92, s. 2.]




Guaranteed investment certificates, etc.



5

Section 89 of the Act does not apply to the use by a savings
institution of the word "guaranteed" to describe an investment or
deposit if


(a) the investment or deposit is one commonly referred to by
savings institutions


(i)  as a "guaranteed investment certificate",


(ii)  as a "guaranteed investment receipt",


(iii)  as a "guaranteed investment fund", or


(iv)  by an abbreviated form of any of those expressions,

(b) the investment or deposit

(i)  is for a term exceeding 5 years and, for that reason
only, is not insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation,


(ii)  is not in Canadian currency and, for that reason only,
is not insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation, or


(iii)  is not in Canadian currency and has a term exceeding 5
years and, for those 2 reasons only, is not insured by the Canada
Deposit Insurance Corporation,


(c) the savings institution does not represent or imply that
the investment or deposit is guaranteed by any third party
guarantor, and


(d) the investment or deposit instrument conspicuously states
on its face that it is not guaranteed by any third party
guarantor.



[Provisions of the
Financial Institutions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 89, 90 (1) (d) and (2) (d), 94 and 289]





