




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Public Health Act


Swimming Pool, Spray Pool and Wading Pool Regulations

B.C. Reg. 289/72






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Regulation

October 8, 2010



Section 15

January 14, 2010



Section 22

January 14, 2010



Section 81

January 14, 2010









Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 296/2010, effective October 8,
2010.





B.C. Reg. 289/72

O.C. 4190/72






Public Health Act


Swimming Pool, Spray Pool and Wading Pool Regulations





Title



1

These regulations may be cited as the "Swimming Pool, Spray Pool
and Wading Pool Regulations".




Part 1 - Interpretation




Definitions



2

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,


"commercial pool"
means a swimming pool having a surface area of 1 800 square feet
or less which is owned or operated by, or in conjunction with, an
educational, recreational or business enterprise and the use of
which is restricted to members, tenants or patrons of the
enterprise or their guests;


"design flow rate"
means the rate at which water must flow in order to pass the
entire volume of the pool within a specified turnover period;


"fill and draw pool"
means a pool in which the cleanliness of the water is maintained
primarily by the removal and replacement of water at periodic
intervals;


"flow through pool"
means a pool in which the water cleanliness is maintained by
introducing a continuous flow of fresh, clean water to the pool
and wasting the outflowing water;


"health establishment"
means an educational, recreational, business enterprise or
hospital which provides therapeutic pool or other pool facilities
in order to cater to the health needs of its patients or patrons;


"lifeguard"
means a person 16 years of age or older who, while on duty, is
responsible for the conduct and safety of all persons in or near
the pool, and who is the holder of one of the following valid and
subsisting certificates:


(a) Royal Life Saving Society National Lifeguard Service
Award;

(b) Royal Life Saving Society Bronze Cross;

(c) Young Men's Christian Association Senior Life Saving
Award;


(d) Canadian Red Cross Society Leader Award;


(e) Red Cross-Royal Life Saving Society Joint Instructor
Certification;


(f) a certificate deemed equivalent to any of the above by
the YMCA, the Canadian Red Cross Society or the Royal Life Saving
Society;


"lifesaving unit"
shall include


(a) a non-conductive reaching pole at least 12 feet long, and


(b) a throwing ring with a quarter inch line securely
attached having a length of not less than half the width of the
pool plus 10 feet;


"manager"
means the person who, while on duty, is responsible for the
supervision of the operation of the pool and auxiliary facilities;


"medical health officer"
means the medical health officer appointed under the
Public Health Act
for the area in which the pool is located;


"municipality"
means a village, town, city or district municipality incorporated
under any Act and includes a regional district, improvement
district, a dyking district, sewerage district, drainage district
and any special district established under any Act;


"operator"
means a person who owns or leases the facilities consisting of the
pool and who controls the operation of these facilities or, in the
case of a society or corporation which owns or leases a pool, the
officers of the society or corporation responsible to the society
or corporation for the operation of these facilities;


"person"
includes any corporation, partnership or party and the heirs,
executors, administrators or other legal representatives of such
person to whom the context can apply according to law;


"pool"
means a swimming pool, wading pool or spray pool;


"portable instruction pool"
or "learner pool" means a pool of water intended for swimming
instruction and water safety instruction and which can be
dismantled and moved from place to place;


"private residential pool"
means a pool which has been installed for the use of the occupants
and guests of one single family dwelling or duplex and does not
include a pool which is a common facility owned by a strata
corporation or other corporate body;


"public health inspector"
means an inspector appointed pursuant to the
Public Health Act
;


"spray pool"
means an artificially constructed depression or basin for use by
children, into which potable water is sprayed but not allowed to
accumulate in the bottom;


"swimming pool"
means an artificially created body of water having a depth of 24
inches or more and all auxiliary structures and equipment which is
available for swimming, recreative bathing or physiotherapy
purposes, either free of charge or for a fee;


"therapeutic pool"
means a pool of water provided for physiotherapy treatment,
including a natural hot water pool, Roman bath, hydro swirl and
hydrotherapy pool;


"wading pool"
means an artificial pool of water intended for wading purposes,
having a depth of less than 24 inches.

[am. B.C. Regs. 103/93, s. 1; 451/2003, s.1.]



Part 2 - Application and Approval




Application of regulation



3

These regulations shall apply to all pools within the Province,
except private residential pools, and to all auxiliary structures
and equipment required for the use or operation of these pools.





Certificate of authorization



4

No person shall construct a pool or make structural or mechanical
changes to any pool without first obtaining a certificate of
authorization from the medical health officer.


[am. B.C. Regs. 33/78; 423/98, s. 1; 451/2003, s. 2.]





Conformity with local bylaws



5

It is the responsibility of the applicant for a certificate of
authorization for construction to submit to the medical health
officer at the time of application written assurance from each
municipality having jurisdiction to pass zoning, plumbing,
electrical, building or fire prevention bylaws that the proposed
construction conforms to its bylaws covering these matters.

[am. B.C. Regs. 423/98, s. 3; 451/2003, s. 3.]




Operating permit required



6

No person shall operate a swimming pool unless he is the holder of
a subsisting operating permit issued by the medical health officer
or a public health inspector.

[am. B.C. Regs. 275/92, s. (a); 103/93, s. 2.]




Letter of certification



7

A medical health officer shall not issue an operating permit for a
new or newly renovated pool until he has received a letter of
certification, acceptable to the medical health officer, signed by
a competent professional engineer or architect registered to
practise in British Columbia, signifying that the swimming pool
has been constructed in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved in the manner set out in section 4 herein.

[am. B.C. Regs. 423/98, s. 2; 451/2003, s. 4.]




Medical health officer may allow permit



8

Notwithstanding section 7, where minor details remain to be
completed in order to comply with this regulation, pools may
qualify for a permit at the discretion of the medical health
officer.





Medical health officer may order changes



9

The medical health officer may order changes in the operation or
structure of a pool if, in his opinion, sanitation, water quality
or public safety standards are not being satisfactorily
maintained. These changes must conform to these regulations.





Ban on fill and draw pools



10

No person shall construct or operate a fill and draw pool.





Requirements for flow through pools



11

No person shall operate a flow through pool unless the
requirements of these regulations are met.




Part 3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 5.]


Part 4 - Pool Construction




Plans and specifications



13

All plans and specifications for swimming pools shall be prepared
by a competent professional engineer or architect registered to
practise in British Columbia and shall bear the lawful seal of the
designer. The registered professional engineer or architect
responsible for preparing the plans shall certify the completed
works in accordance with section 7.





Inspection during construction



14

Notwithstanding section 7, the medical health officer may inspect
the works during construction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 6.]




Plans and data to be submitted to medical health officer



15

Three copies of plans and specifications for the construction or
renovation of a swimming pool shall be submitted to the medical
health officer, together with a completed "Swimming Pool Data
Sheet," in the form specified in Appendix B hereto, copies of
which may be obtained from the minister's ministry.

[am. B.C. Regs. 451/2003, s. 7; 4/2010, s. 3.]




Construction in accordance with plans



16

The pool shall be constructed in accordance with the plans and
specifications as approved, unless approval of changes has been
given in writing by the medical health officer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 7.]




Walkway or apron around pool



17

Except for the portion of a pool to which section 35.1 applies, a
continuous apron or walkway shall extend completely around the
pool and provide


(a) a minimum walkway width of 4 feet beyond the gutter
system,


(b) drainage away from the pool edge in a manner that will
not create muddy, hazardous or objectionable conditions with the
pool enclosure,


(c) when required, drains, covered with a grating, having an
equivalent opening of at least 12 square inches,


(d) drains spaced at not more than 25 feet so that no more
than 400 square feet of apron area is tributary to any one drain,
and


(e) drainage systems designed in accordance with good
engineering practice.

[am. B.C. Reg. 88/86, s. 1.]




Security fence



18

The pool shall be surrounded by a security fence sufficient in
design and height to exclude animals and unauthorized persons from
the enclosed area. Landscaping within the security fence must be
separated from the pool area by a barrier approved by the medical
health officer.





Depth marks



19

Depth marks for swimming pools shall

(a) indicate the depth of water,

(b) be located above the water surface on the pool wall and
on the walkway at the pool edge,


(c) be located at maximum and minimum depth, at 1 foot depth
increments between the shallow depth and the point of break
inclusive, and at other intermediate points spaced at not more
than 25 foot intervals measured peripherally,


(d) be in arabic numerals of 4 inch minimum height, and


(e) be a colour contrasting with background.





Slope of pool floor



20

The pool floor shall have a uniform slope not greater than 1 foot
in 15 where the water depth is less than 5 feet. In commercial
pools the pool floor shall have a uniform slope not greater than 1
foot in 12 feet where the water depth is less than 5 feet.





Requirements for diving



21

Pools of the type wherein diving is permitted shall have adequate
clearances and depth of water for safe diving and shall be as
indicated in Appendix C. For diving platforms over 3 m in height,
the Federation Internationale de Natation Amateur (FINA) standards
shall be followed for clearances and water depths.





General requirements



22

In order to maintain proper sanitation and public safety
standards, every swimming pool shall have


(a) a drinking water supply that meets the minister's
ministry requirements for potable water,


(b) change rooms divided into 2 parts separated by a tight
partition, one part to be designated for men and the other for
women, with entrances and exits screened with partitions to break
line of sight,


(c) the dressing rooms, toilets and showers arranged so that
bathers pass from the toilet or dressing room area through the
shower area and thence directly to the pool area; there shall be a
minimum occasion for patrons in bare feet and those in street
shoes to walk in the same area,


(d) floors in dressing rooms, shower rooms, toilet areas,
pool basins and aprons and other paved areas, including stairs,
made of durable material which is impervious to moisture and
retains a texture which is non-slip and causes no discomfort to
bare feet with a minimum uniform slope to the drain of 1/4 inch
per foot.


(e) coved junctions between walls and floors in areas used by
bathers,


(f) walls and partitions of smooth, durable, impervious
material, free from cracks or open joints,


(g) dressing rooms and toilet spaces ventilated either by
natural or mechanical means to minimize condensation,


(h) privacy screens terminating at least 10 inches above the
floor level, and


(i) hose bibs of not less than 3/4 inch pipe size to enable
thorough hosing down of all walks and floors and appurtenances
used by bathers with a hose having a maximum length of 75 feet and
recessed where possible or located away from traffic areas to
avoid accidents.

[am. B.C. Reg. 4/2010, s. 3.]




Commercial pool facilities



23

(1)  Notwithstanding anything in this regulation to the
contrary, a commercial pool may be installed and operated without
providing, in conjunction therewith at the pool side, dressing
room, shower, washbasin, urinal or watercloset, drinking fountain,
first aid kit, telephone, and without employing any lifeguard,
provided that


(a) an adequate number of facilities, including waterclosets,
showers or bath and washbasins, are available elsewhere and the
pool is not more than 200 feet walking distance from the furthest
of these facilities,


(b) a clearly visible notice or warning sign is posted at all
entrances to the pool, stating "Warning—No Lifeguard on Duty" and
any other direction to protect the users of the pool.


(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), the medical health
officer may exercise the power set out in section 24 in respect to
any commercial pool.


(3)  If a pool would be a commercial pool except that its use
for swimming instruction is not restricted to members, tenants or
patrons of the enterprise or their guests, the pool is a
commercial pool for the purposes of this section and section 24.

[am. B.C. Reg. 256/98, s. (a).]




Showers and toilets



24

The medical health officer may require that, for each sex using a
commercial pool, a shower and a toilet be installed adjacent to
the pool and may order any other measure consistent with these
regulations which he deems necessary for the safety and health of
the users of the pool.





Artificial lighting



25

For indoor pools and pools used at night, a complete system of
artificial lighting must be provided supplying at least 15 foot
candles of illumination at all points 30 inches above the water
surface, the deck, and in areas of the change rooms used by
bathers.





Pool basin structure



26

A swimming pool basin shall be structurally sound and essentially
watertight; constructed of durable, impervious material which will
provide a finish free from cracks and open joints.





Pool basin finish and surface



27

A swimming pool basin shall have a


(a) final finish which is white or light in colour,


(b) smooth bottom surface where the water depth is more than
5 feet, and


(c) non-slip surface which causes no discomfort to bare feet
on the walls and on the bottom surfaces where the water depth is
less than 5 feet.





Hydrostatic relief valve requirement



28

Pools not designed to resist hydraulic uplift shall be provided
with a hydrostatic relief valve.





Drop offs and projections



29

There shall be no abrupt drop off or submerged projection in a
pool other than properly marked stairs and safety ledges.




Part 5 - Recirculation and Plumbing Requirements




Pool water supply



30

The water in a swimming pool shall be separated


(a) from any potable water supply by an approved backflow
preventer to ensure that the water in the pool system does not
flow back into the potable water supply,


(b) by air gaps from the sewer or drainage system into which
it drains, and


(c) from a wading pool or therapeutic pool recirculation
system.





Water recirculation



31

All swimming pools, except flow through pools, shall be designed
to recirculate water continuously. The design flow rate for
swimming pools and commercial pools shall be determined on the
basis of a maximum turnover period of 6 hours and 12 hours
respectively.





Maximum turnover period



31.1

Despite section 31, a pool must have a maximum turnover period of
2 hours if it

(a) is designed for play or leisure,

(b) is equipped to generate moving water features such as
waves, rapid currents, vortices, sprays or water jets, and


(c) has a maximum water depth of 48 inches or less.

[en. B.C. Reg. 378/93, s. 1.]




Pumps



32

Pumps shall be either self priming or located below the level of
the pool. The pump shall be protected from objects that may damage
it.





Piping



33

All piping shall be designed to minimize friction losses and to
carry the required quantity of water at a velocity not to exceed
10 feet per second in supply pipes and 6 feet per second in return
pipes. Piping shall be of nontoxic material, resistant to
corrosion, able to withstand operating pressures and installed
according to the manufacturer's recommendations.





Pool inlets



34

Pool inlet fittings must be submerged at least 24 inches below the
average operating level and located to produce, in so far as
possible, a uniform circulation of water and maintain a uniform
disinfectant concentration throughout the entire pool. Inlet
fittings shall be of a type whereby the rate of flow through each
can be adjusted and, when placed in the pool wall, spaced not more
than 30 feet apart measured peripherally or one fitting for each
10 000 imperial gallons of pool volume, whichever is more. When
pool sidewalls are more than 44 feet apart, floor inlets shall be
used. If floor inlets are used, the number of inlet fittings shall
be at least equal to the number of wall inlets required and
arranged to carry surface water to the gutters or skimmers. If the
pool water depth is less than 24 inches, the inlet fittings must
be placed as near to the pool floor as possible.

[am. B.C. Reg. 378/93, s. 2.]




Gutters



35

Subject to section 42, overflow gutters shall extend along the
entire perimeter of any swimming pool having a surface area of
more than 1 800 square feet. Gutters may be omitted only at steps,
recessed ladders, or at pool wall sections located between the
gutter in the floor at the beach—like edge and the point on the
pool wall where the water reaches 36 inches.

[am. B.C. Regs. 88/86, s. 2; 378/93, s. 3.]




Skimmers



35.1

(1)  Subject to section 42, if a pool is designed

(a) to imitate a beach-like edge,

(b) to have a continuous gutter flush with the pool floor
extending the entire length of the waterline formed at the
beach—like edge, and


(c) to have the section of pool deck adjacent to the gutter
referred to in paragraph (b) confine waves of water from the pool
that may travel beyond the gutter and return the water to the
gutter,


gutters may be omitted where otherwise required provided that


(d) the water depth in the area where the gutters are omitted
does not exceed 36 inches,


(e) skimmers are provided in lieu of gutters and the skimmers
conform with subsection (2), and


(f) gratings with openings not exceeding 30 mm in width are
installed over the front of each skimmer.


(2)  A sufficient number of skimmers shall be provided so
that the theoretical turnover period of the water in the area to
which the skimmers relate is less than one hour measured by a rate
of flow indicator connected to the skimming devices.


[en. B.C. Reg. 88/86, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 378/93, s. 4.]





Gutter drains



36

Gutter drains shall be provided at intervals of not more than 15
feet and shall be at least 2 inches in diameter.





Pool main drain piping



37

The pool main drain piping shall


(a) be separately valved from the gutters or skimmers and
discharge into the recirculation pump suction, surge tank or an
approved drain, and


(b) have a capacity equal to 100% of the design flow rate.





Pool drain



38

The pool drain shall


(a) be at the deepest point in the pool to permit the pool to
be completely and easily emptied,


(b) have openings covered by a grating which is not readily
removable by bathers, and


(c) have openings in the gratings so that the maximum
velocity of the water passing the grate will not exceed 1 1/2 feet
per second at design flow rate.





Drain connection to circulation system



39

All overflow gutters and main drains shall be connected to a
circulation system through a properly designed surge tank or
equivalent pipe or channel.





Surge tank



40

A surge tank, pipe or channel shall be installed and have a
working capacity of at least one cubic foot per bather, based on
the maximum bathing load.





Overflow gutters



41

Overflow gutters shall be designed


(a) to rapidly remove surface water at a rate equal to or
greater than the design flow rate and to avoid the gutters
becoming flooded,


(b) so that the opening into the gutter beneath the coping or
deck is not less than 4 inches and the interior of the gutter is
not less than 3 inches wide and 3 inches deep,


(c) to prevent entrance or entrapment of bathers' arms or
legs and designed with easy access for cleaning, and


(d) to serve as a handhold so that their edges or lips are
rounded and not thicker than 2 1/2 inches for the top 2 inches.





Surface skimming devices



42

(1)  Surface skimming devices may be used in place of the
requirements of sections 35, 36 and 39 to remove surface water
from a pool if the pool


(a) has a surface area of 1 800 square feet or less, or

(b) is described by section 31.1.

(2)  If subsection (1) applies to a pool, the number of
surface skimming devices the pool must have is the greater of


(a) the number of these devices calculated at the rate of one
device for each 450 square feet of pool surface area or portion
thereof, and


(b) the number of these devices calculated at the rate of one
device for each 25 to 40 imperial gallons a minute of design flow
rate.


(3)  Each surface skimming device must have a valve or other
means to regulate the flow of water through it and must be
positioned to remove surface water from the pool.


[en. B.C. Reg. 378/93, s. 5; am. B.C. Reg. 286/2002, s. (a).]





Measurement of waste water



43

In those pools designed to waste the overflow water to sewer, or
otherwise, not less than 10% of the design flow rate shall pass
through the overflow devices or channels, and a water meter shall
be provided to measure the amount of waste water.





Rate of flow indicator



44

A rate of flow indicator located for easy viewing and calibrated
in gallons per minute shall be provided and maintained for each
swimming pool to show the rate of pool water circulation. It shall
provide at least 95% degree of accuracy and be capable of flows
measuring from 50 to 150% of the design flow rate.





Disinfection equipment



45

Automatic disinfection equipment shall be installed in all
swimming pools and shall have sufficient capacity to feed up to 3
p.p.m. of chlorine or equivalent at indoor pools and 8 p.p.m. of
chlorine or equivalent at outdoor pools, based upon the design
flow rate.





Chlorine gas as disinfectant



46

When chlorine gas is used as a disinfectant,


(a) the chlorinator room shall be located above ground level
with an exit door opening outwardly and directly to the outdoors
with a screened opening to the outdoors at ceiling level,


(b) the chlorinator room shall be provided with emergency
mechanical ventilation taking suction at the floor level and
discharging it directly to the outdoors in a place remote from air
intake structures and occupied areas, and of sufficient capacity
to produce 30 air changes per hour,


(c) all openings in the chlorinator room, such as breaks
through the wall for piping, except for paragraphs (a) and (b),
shall be sealed with an elastromeric caulking compound to prevent
the escape of chlorine gas,


(d) canister type or self contained respiratory protective
equipment for use in a chlorine contaminated atmosphere, as
required by the Workers' Compensation Board regulations, shall be
provided and located outside the chlorinator room and near enough
for immediate use in case of an emergency,


(e) the chlorination equipment shall be locked and the key
made readily available only to staff members trained in the proper
handling of chlorine,


(f) the chlorine cylinder valve protection hood shall be kept
in place, except when the cylinder is connected to the
chlorinator,


(g) the chlorine cylinders shall be securely anchored,


(h) a valve stem wrench shall be maintained on the chlorine
cylinder or cylinders in use,


(i) a weigh scale of suitable capacity for measuring the
weight of liquid chlorine and cylinder shall be provided,


(j) the chlorine rooms shall be equipped with a viewing
window,


(k) a combination light and fan switch shall be located
outside the chlorine room beside the viewing window,


(l) suitable warning signs shall be posted in accordance with
the Accident Prevention Regulations

1

of the Workers' Compensation Board, and


(m) the chlorinator shall be designed to cease operation in
conjunction with the shutdown of the recirculating pumps.





Other means of disinfectant



47

If means other than chlorine are used as a disinfectant, residuals
of equivalent disinfecting strength shall be maintained in the
pool water in accordance with section 75.





Repealed



48

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 271/83.]





Filter piping



49

The filter piping arrangement shall be as simple as possible to
accomplish the filtration and backwashing or cleaning. Sand filter
units designed for performance at high rates of filtration, i.e.,
4 to 12.5 imperial gallons per minute per square foot of filter
area, are acceptable for pools, provided that such filter units
meet the requirements of Part 8.





Filter room



50

The size of the filter room shall provide sufficient space to
allow 6 inches of clearance between filter units and 18 inches of
clearance from walls, partitions and ceilings. In addition, other
clearances shall be provided as prescribed by the manufacturer for
dismantling the tank and removing components or contents and for
working space adequate to perform routine operations. Space shall
also be provided for storage of chemicals and auxiliary equipment.
In rooms with fixed ceilings, the minimum room height shall be 7
feet.





Filter units



51

The filter units shall be capable of operating at continuous
design flow rate and equipped with such pressure, vacuum or
compound gauges as are required to indicate the condition of the
filter. In vacuum type filter installations where the circulating
pump is 2 horsepower or more, an adequate automatic high vacuum
shut off shall be provided to prevent damage to the pump by
cavitation.





Flow through pools



52

Flow through pools shall have water added continuously at the
design flow rate. The quality of water added must be approved by
the medical health officer and maintained to meet requirements of
these regulations.





Plumbing fixtures



53

(1)  For swimming pools with a maximum bathing load of 480,
as described in section 80, plumbing fixtures shall be provided in
accordance with the following table:






Required Number

of Fixtures




Showers,

Male and Female



Waterclosets


Urinals, Male



Lavatories,

Male and Female





Male


Female



1
1 - 40
1 - 60
1 - 40
1 - 60
1 - 100


2
41 - 80
61 - 120
41 - 80
61 - 120
101 - 200


3
81 - 120
121 - 180
81 - 120
121 - 180
201 - 300


4
121 - 160
181 - 240
121 - 160
181 - 240
301 - 400


5
161 - 200
241 - 300
161 - 200
241 - 300
401 - 500



6
1

201 - 240
301 - 360
201 - 240
301 - 360
501 - 600



1
For pools having a total bathing load in excess of 480,
additional facilities must be provided on the basis of one
shower, one watercloset and one lavatory for each 200
females or portion thereof, and one shower, one watercloset,
one urinal and one lavatory for each 200 males or portion
thereof.





NOTE-For determining the number of fixtures for each sex,
the total number of bathers may be considered as divided
between male and female on the ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 up to
1.5 to 1.0, or as determined from experience or proposed
pool use.






(2)  One drinking fountain for each 500 bathers or portion
thereof, to be located in the pool area.





Temperature of shower water



54

Thermostatic tempering or mixing valves shall, if necessary, be
installed to prevent scalding of bathers. In the event that manual
valves are used, each shall be suitably marked to differentiate
between the hot and cold supply. Regardless of the controls used,
the water temperature at the shower head shall be between 90 and
110° F.





Soap



55

Liquid or powdered soap in suitable dispensers shall be provided
at each shower head and each lavatory.




Part 6 - Miscellaneous Equipment




Diving board headroom



56

Not less than 16 feet free and unobstructed headroom shall be
provided above diving boards, which shall extend a clear distance
of 16 feet ahead, 8 feet to each side and 8 feet behind the free
end of the board.





Access to diving boards and platforms



57

Diving boards and platforms more than 10 feet above the water
level shall have the access designed so that it may be controlled.





Guardrails



58

Diving boards and platforms greater than 4 feet above the water
level shall provide double guardrails for the portion of the board
or platform which is not above the water area.





Wall fittings and lifelines



59

Wall fittings and any other necessary fittings shall be installed
so that a lifeline can be placed at the 5 foot depth to designate
the boundary between the swimming area and the diving area of the
pool. Alternatively, a 4 inch wide marking strip of contrasting
colour shall be placed down the sides and across the floor of the
pool at the 5 foot depth to designate the boundary between the 2
areas.





Slides and play equipment



60

No slide or other piece of play equipment shall be installed or
constructed in any swimming pool without the medical health
officer's approval of the design and location of the equipment.

[am. B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 8.]




Underwater ledges



61

A ledge may be provided on vertical walls at the deep end of a
swimming pool. It shall be a maximum of 6 inches wide and at least
48 inches below the water surface. The nose of the ledge shall be
rounded and marked in a contrasting colour.





Steps and ladders



62

Steps or ladders shall


(a) be provided at the shallow end of the pool if the
vertical distance from the bottom of the pool to the deck or
walkway exceeds 2 feet,


(b) be provided at the deep portion of the swimming pool,
and, if the pool is over 30 feet wide at the deep end, such steps
or ladders shall be installed on each side,


(c) be installed so as not to interfere with competitive
events, and


(d) have at least 4 rungs when placed in water depths greater
than 5 feet.





Ladder construction



63

Swimming pool ladders shall be corrosion resistant and shall be
equipped with nonslip treads at least 3 inches wide and 13 inches
long.





Steps and stairs



64

Steps or stairs leading into a pool shall


(a) be of nonslip design in accordance with section 22 (d),


(b) have a minimum tread depth of 12 inches and a maximum
rise or height of 10 inches,


(c) have the nose marked in a contrasting colour, and


(d) be provided with suitable handrails to allow safe use of
the steps or stairs.





Lockers and basket shelves



65

Lockers and basket shelves, if supplied for use at pools for
storage of bathers' clothing, shall be well ventilated, raised at
least 4 inches off the floor and readily cleanable.





Test kits



66

Every pool shall be provided with a suitable test kit for the
reliable determination of disinfectant residuals and the
hydrogen-ion concentration.





Vacuum cleaning system



67

An efficient vacuum cleaning system shall be provided capable of
cleaning the entire swimming pool floor. When the vacuum cleaning
system is an integral part of the recirculation system,
connections shall be located in the walls of the swimming pool at
least 8 inches below the water level.





Ground fault circuit interrupters



68

Ground fault circuit interrupters shall be installed in all
swimming pools in accordance with the Provincial Electrical Code.
Existing pools shall comply with this section by June 1, 1973, or
discontinue the use of underwater lighting by physically severing
the circuits.





Lifeguard stands



69

Elevated lifeguard stands and lifesaving units shall be provided
at all swimming pools on the basis of the following table:






Number of Lifeguard Stands

and Lifesaving Units




Pool Area

(Square Feet)




0
less than 1 800


1 of each
1 800 — 3 500


2 of each
3 500 — 5 000


1 of each for every 150 feet of pool perimeter
more than 5 000







Foot baths



70

If foot baths are provided, they shall be equipped with adequate
water supply and drain designed for continuous flow through
operation.




Part 7 - Operation and Inspection




Posting of operating permit



71

The operator shall ensure that the operating permit is posted in a
conspicuous place in the swimming pool area during such time as
the operating permit is valid and subsisting with respect to the
pool.





Repealed



72

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 49/2009, s. 2 (f).]





Requirements for operation



73

Every swimming pool manager shall ensure that


(a) a minimum of 2 staff members are on duty at all swimming
pools when the pool is open to the public, to include one
lifeguard and another person conversant with the emergency plan
for the pool,


(b) the pool is under the close supervision of either a
lifeguard when the pool is open for general use or a swimming
instructor when the pool is used only for instruction, or both
lifeguard and instructor when the pool is used simultaneously for
general use and instruction,


(c) at least one lifeguard is on duty at pool side for each
100 persons or portion thereof within the pool area,


(d) there is at least one lifeguard, 17 years or older, on
duty at pool side,


(e) effective measures are taken to see that dogs and other
animals are not permitted to enter the pool area,


(f) no bather is permitted to enter the pool water until he
has taken a cleansing shower, using warm water and soap,

(g) no person enters the pool who
(i)  is obviously ill,
(ii)  has an open wound or sore,
(iii)  is wearing a bandage,
(iv)  has sore or infected eyes, or
(v)  has discharging ears or nose,

(h) all bathing suits and towels supplied to bathers are
laundered after each use, and that the method of cleaning, storing
and handling rental bathing suits and towels is that approved by
the medical health officer,


(i) the pool aprons, walkways, dressing rooms, shower rooms
and toilets are cleaned at least daily and kept free of all
equipment and material not needed for the proper operation of the
pool,


(j) a standard No. 2 Unit Kit (first aid), as recommended by
the Workers' Compensation Board, is fully stocked and readily
available for use at all times,


(k) lifesaving units are mounted in conspicuous places and
ready for use at all times,


(l) only persons in clean bathing attire, the owner of the
pool and his servants or agents and persons mentioned in Part 12
of these regulations are allowed to enter the pool area, except as
otherwise provided in these regulations,


(m) officials and spectators who may be dressed in street
clothes are allowed to enter the pool area only for special
functions,


(n) a set of rules governing the use of the pool is posted in
a prominent position and states that


(i)  all persons with open sores, bandages, head colds,
discharging ears or noses or infected eyes are forbidden to enter
the pool area,


(ii)  a cleansing shower using warm water and soap is
mandatory before entering the pool area,


(iii)  running, fighting or any form of conduct likely to
cause an accident in the pool is forbidden,


(iv)  all accidents must be reported to the pool manager at
once, and


(v)  no bather shall be permitted to enter a swimming pool
unless under supervision of a qualified swimming instructor or
lifeguard,


(o) the water in a filled pool is of such clarity that the
pattern of the pool drain can be clearly seen by a person standing
on the edge of the pool at the deep end,


(p) the pool water and the pool walls and bottom are kept
free of visible dirt, litter, body oil and algal growth,


(q) the pool water is tested at least once every day of
operation to determine the pH (hydrogen-ion concentration) and
maintained at a value of not less than 7.4,


(r) the pool water is tested frequently for residual
disinfectant before and during each period of swimming pool usage
and maintained in accordance with section 75,


(s) the water in all pools except therapeutic pools is not
artificially heated to a temperature above 98° F,


(t) a private line telephone is installed for the purpose of
emergencies and a list of numbers to include the nearest available
doctor, ambulance service, hospital and police or fire department
rescue unit is prominently displayed adjacent to the telephone,


(u) decks and floors are maintained with a nonslip surface,


(v) the water level in the pool is maintained so that at
least 50% of the design flow rate is continuously flowing to the
overflow gutters or skimmers during pool use, and


(w) the lifeline or the alternate marking strip is in place
at the 5 foot depth in accordance with section 59.

[am. B.C. Reg. 286/2002, s. (b).]




Restriction of use of diving boards and platforms



74

The use of diving boards and platforms shall be restricted in the
interest of safety at the discretion of the swimming pool manager.





Residual disinfectant



75

A suitable residual of a disinfectant shall be maintained
throughout the swimming pool water. The minimum disinfectant
residual maintained, in parts per million, shall be as follows:





Disinfectant


Type of Residual


pH




7.4 - 7.8


Higher Than 7.8



Chlorine
Free available chlorine
0.5
1.0


Chlorine cyanurate
Free available chlorine
1.0
1.5


Bromine
Bromine
1.0
1.5




The use of any other disinfectant shall comply with Part 8 of
these regulations. Water samples for residual tests shall be taken
from a point near the outlet of the pool, or as directed by the
medical health officer.





Water sampling



76

Water samples taken from swimming pools for bacteriological
examination will be taken at a time when the pool is in use from a
point near the outlet of the pool and at such additional sampling
points as may be selected by the medical health officer. The
Multiple Tube Fermentation Technique, using 5 to 10 millilitre
portions, shall be used to measure the presence of organisms of
the coliform group in accordance with "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater".





Corrective action



77

The medical health officer shall order immediate corrective action
when the results of any single sample tested for the presence of
organisms of the coliform group in accordance with section 76 show
3 or more positive portions.





Repeat sampling



78

After corrective action has been taken in accordance with section
77, a repeat sample or series of samples shall be taken and tested
in accordance with section 76. If the results of any of the repeat
samples show a positive portion, the medical health officer may,
at his discretion, order the swimming pool closed and revoke the
operating permit.





Records



79

The manager shall keep a daily record of all accidents, maximum
bathing loads, attendance, amount and types of chemicals added to
the water, the results of those tests done for residual
disinfectant and pH, and any other records deemed necessary by the
medical health officer. The records must be available for
inspection by the medical health officer and reported to him as he
may direct.





Maximum number of bathers



80

The maximum number of bathers permitted in the swimming pool area
at one time shall not exceed a number determined by the following
formula:




maximum bathing load
=
D
+
S










27
10




Where D = area of swimming pool in square feet where the water
depth is more than 5 feet, and


Where S = area of swimming pool in square feet where the water
depth is less than 5 feet.


Pool depths of less than 2 feet shall not be considered in the
calculations.


The manager shall provide a method of determining the total number
of bathers in the pool by numbering lockers, keys, tags, etc., so
that the above requirement is met, or further limit the maximum
bathing load in the interest of public safety and possible
overcrowding.





Operator certificate of competency



81

Every swimming pool shall be operated and maintained by a
competent operator and manager. The minister's ministry may
require a certificate of competency obtained through attendance
and successful completion of an approved swimming pool operator's
training course as evidence of compliance with this section.

[am. B.C. Reg. 4/2010, s. 3.]



Part 8 - Equipment, Chemicals and Procedures




Evaluation of equipment, chemicals or features



82

The minister may initiate any programme of study to evaluate any
equipment, chemicals or design features for use in the
construction, operation or maintenance of pools.





Construction and maintenance standards



83

Only equipment, design features and materials approved by the
Canadian Standards Association, the National Sanitation Foundation
or the minister shall be used in the construction, operation or
maintenance of a pool




Part 9 - Therapeutic Pools




Provisions applicable to therapeutic pools



84

(1)  Parts 10 and 11 shall not apply to therapeutic pools.


(2)  Provisions of Part 9 shall govern the construction,
operation and maintenance of the therapeutic pool, notwithstanding
any conflicting provisions elsewhere in these regulations.





Recirculation rate



85

The recirculation rate through the filter system shall be
sufficient to pass the entire volume of the pool in one hour or
less.





Supervision of bathers



86

If a therapeutic pool is operated as a health establishment, the
manager shall be responsible for the continuous supervision of
bathers. At all other establishments where a therapeutic pool is
operated, the manager may be required by the medical health
officer to employ a person to be responsible for the continuous
supervision of bathers.





Seats and benches



87

Seats and benches shall have a nonslip surface and the edges shall
be marked in a contrasting colour.





Pool walls



88

Pool walls shall have a smooth finish to facilitate cleaning.





Water velocity



89

A maximum velocity of water through the drains of any of the
recirculation systems shall be 1 1/2 feet per second.





Toilets and showers



90

A minimum of one toilet and one shower shall be provided
conveniently near the pool for each sex.





Walkways



91

Pools less than 100 square feet in area may have a reduced walkway
width of 2 feet for up to 75% of the pool perimeter. The access to
the pool shall be from a walkway 4 feet or greater in width.





Safety notices



92

A clearly visible notice or warning sign shall be posted at all
entrances to the pool, stating such directions necessary for the
safety of the patrons.





Clock



93

A clock of sufficient size and design shall be located to be seen
by those in the pool.




Part 10 - Portable Instruction Pools




Provisions applicable to portable instruction pools



94

(1)  Parts 9 and 11 shall not apply to portable instruction
pools.


(2)  Provisions of Part 10 shall govern the construction,
operation and maintenance of a portable instruction pool,
notwithstanding any conflicting provisions elsewhere in these
regulations.





Design and use



95

Portable instruction pools shall be


(a) completely portable and designed with consideration given
to sanitation and safety, and

(b) used only for water safety instruction.




Medical health officer may grant temporary exemptions



96

(1)  The medical health officer, by notice in writing, may
grant temporary exemptions from provisions in these regulations in
the case of a portable instruction pool, provided he is satisfied
that such exemptions do not create a sanitation or safety danger
to users of the portable instruction pool or to members of the
public.


(2)  In his notice of exemption aforesaid, the medical health
officer must specify the period of exemption and the model or
individual portable instruction pools being exempted.

[am. B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 7.]




Standards of design and installation



97

Standards of design and installation for portable instruction
pools may be set from time to time at the discretion of the
minister and be such as to promote sanitary and safe conditions.




Part 11 - Wading and Spray Pools




Requirements for wading and spray pools



98

(1)  Wading pools and spray pools shall


(a) be made of durable material which is impervious to
moisture and retains a texture which is nonslip and causes no
discomfort to bare feet,


(b) be completely free of obstructions which may be hazardous
to children,


(c) have a floor with a maximum slope of 1 in 15 and a
minimum of 1 in 50,


(d) be entirely surrounded by a walkway at least 4 feet wide
which falls away from the pool or basin edge at a uniform slope of
not less than 1 in 50, and


(e) have a fence or other barrier with controlled access
surrounding the pool and the walkways to prevent the easy access
of non-users and pets.


(2)  Subsection (1) (e) does not apply to spray pools.

[am. B.C. Reg. 286/2002, s. (c).]




Pool filling



99

A wading pool shall be either filled with potable water each day
it is used, drained before dark and left empty overnight or, as an
alternate, the entire volume of the wading pool recirculated
through an approved filter in 2 hours or less, in which case a
security fence and lockable gate is to be provided.





Water quality



100

The quality of water used in a wading pool and for a spray pool
must be approved by the medical health officer.





Inlet fittings



101

Inlet fittings in wading pools using recirculation systems shall
be submerged and located to produce uniform distribution of clean
water throughout the pool.





No cross connections



102

There shall be no cross connections between a wading pool or spray
pool and any potable water supply, the water circulation system of
any swimming pool or any sewer.





Toilet and drinking facilities



103

Separate toilet facilities with hand basin shall be provided near
the wading pool for each sex. A drinking fountain shall be
provided near the pool.





Floor finish



104

The floor of the wading pool shall be finished in a light colour.




Part 12 and 13

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 5.]


Appendix A

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 275/92, s. (b).]


Appendix B


Swimming Pool Data Sheet






(Indoor)


(Outdoor)





Name of pool
...........................................................
Address
....................................................................

City or Town
..............................................................................................................................................

Owner or
operator.......................................................
Designer
..................................................................

Address
..................................................................
Address
...................................................................





Prof. Eng.



Arch.




1

Pool area .....(sq. ft.); deck..... (sq. ft.) Water depth:
Min......(ft.), max...... (ft.)



2

Maximum bathing load: Shallow (S) ..... Deep (D)..... Total
..........



3

Pool volume ......... (imp. gals.)



4

Turnover ......... (hrs.) at design flow rate of .........
(imp. g.p.m.)



5

Recirculating pump: Make and model ......... Flow.........
(imp. g.p.m.) at......... (ft. TDH)



6

Filters: Sand

Diatomite

Pressure

Vacuum

Gravity

NSF approved: Yes

No


Make and model
.......................................................

Surface area (each filter).......... (sq. ft.)

Surface area (each element).......... (sq. ft.)





Rate of filtration.......... (imp. g.p.m./sq. ft.)

Total filter capacity ...............

Max. velocity: return piping (from pool)

.............................. (f.p.s.);

supply piping (to pool) ............... (f.p.s.)

Gauges: Pressure

Vacuum


Number .............................................


Number of filters ....... Number of elements.......

Total area (all filters) ............... (sq. ft.)

Total area (all elements) .......... (sq. ft.)

Rate of Backwash ........ (imp. g.p.m./sq. ft.)

Rate of filtration x total area... (imp. g.p.m.)

Rate of flow indicator: Make and model ...........

.............................. range...............
to.................



7

Feeders: Chemical

Slurry


Make and model ..............................

Capacity .............................................

Injection point .............................................


Chemicals used
..................................................

Make and model
.................................................

Capacity
.............................................................

Injection
point.....................................................



8

Backwash pump: Make and model ............... Flow..... (imp.
g.p.m.) at ..... (ft. TDH)

Backwash rate per filter ............... (imp. g.p.m.)



9

Disinfection: Hypochlorite

Chlorine gas

Other
............................................................

Make and model .............................. Capacity
.............................. or lb./24 hr.

Point of injection: Filter infl.

Filter effl.

max. dosing rate ...............p.p.m.



10

Pool inlets: Type ............... Size ............... Total
number ............... at ............... ft. spacing.

Depth below W/L ............... (in.)



11

Main drain: Make and model
............................................................
Number ...............

Size of free opening ............... (sq. in.) Vel. through
grate opening............... (f.s.)



12

Overflow: Gutter

Rollout

Deck Level


Number of drains ............... at ............... ft.
spacing; size ............... (in.)

Skimmers: Make and model
...............................................................................................................

Max. capacity............... (imp. g.p.m.) Number of
skimmers..... at ..... (sq. ft./skimmer)

Normal flow through overflows ............... % NSF approved:
Yes

No




13

Makeup water:

Source, public

private


Control: Manual

Automatic


Backflow preventer: Yes

No



Size of makeup line ............... (in.)

Air-gapped: Yes

No


Make and model
................................................



14

Water piping: Copper

Galv.

Plastic

Other ......................................................



15
Remarks (for Health Dept. use)

The foregoing data are true statements of facts pertaining to
this pool as it is to be constructed.




Date ............................................


(Signed)
.............................................................

(Design Engineer or Architect)






Appendix C





D-1 shall be at end wall of diving area or not more than 6 inches
from this wall.


D may vary, but slope of D shall not exceed 1 foot vertical in 2
feet horizontal. Distance between boards shall not be less than 8
feet centre to centre. There shall be a walkway at least 3 feet wide
behind diving-boards.






Stands and

Boards



Depth


Length of Section




D-1


D-2


D-3


D-4


D-5


A


B


C


D


E


F




3 metre board

(minimum)

(maximum)


5'0"

—


5'0"

—


12'0"

—


11'9"

—


10'0"

—


5'0"

6'0"


8'0"

1


10'0"


12'0"

—


15'0"

—


3'0"

—


12'0"

—




1 metre board

(minimum)

(maximum)


5'0"

—


5'0"

—


10'6"

—


10'0"

—


9'0"

—


5'0"

6'0"


8'0"

10'0"


12'0"

—


10'0"

—


2'0"

—


8'0"

—




Deck level

(minimum)

(maximum)


5'0"

—


5'0"

—


9'0"

—


8'6"

—


8'0"

—


2'6"

4'0"


6'0"

2


10'0"


6'0"

—


12'0"

—


2'0"

—


8'0"

—




No board


—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—




1
B and C may vary to attain total 20'0" minimum.


2
B and C may vary to attain total 12'0" minimum.














1.


see now B.C. Reg. 296/97, Occupational Health and Safety
Regulation





[Provisions of the
Public Health Act
, S.B.C. 2008, c. 28, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 115]





Section 15 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 4/2010, effective January 14,
2010.




Plans and data to be submitted to medical health officer



15

Three copies of plans and specifications for the construction or
renovation of a swimming pool shall be submitted to the medical
health officer, together with a completed "Swimming Pool Data
Sheet," in the form specified in Appendix B hereto, copies of
which may be obtained from the Ministry of Health.

[am. B.C. Reg. 451/2003, s. 7.]





Section 22 (a) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 4/2010, effective January
14, 2010.


(a) a drinking water supply that meets the Ministry of Health
requirements for potable water,





Section 81 BEFORE amended by BC Reg 4/2010, effective January 14,
2010.




Operator certificate of competency



81

Every swimming pool shall be operated and maintained by a
competent operator and manager. The Ministry of Health may require
a certificate of competency obtained through attendance and
successful completion of an approved swimming pool operator's
training course as evidence of compliance with this section.






