




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Professions Act


Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners and Acupuncturists
Regulation

B.C. Reg. 385/2000





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 385/2000

O.C. 1646/2000


Deposited December 4, 2000






Health Professions Act



Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners and Acupuncturists
Regulation






Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"active serious medical condition"
means a disease, disorder or dysfunction which has disabling or
life-threatening effects and which will not improve without
immediate or surgical intervention;


"acupuncture"
means an act of stimulation, by means of needles, of specific
sites on the skin, mucous membranes or subcutaneous tissues of the
human body to promote, maintain, restore or improve health, to
prevent a disorder, imbalance or disease or to alleviate pain and
includes


(a) the administration of manual, mechanical, thermal and
electrical stimulation of acupuncture needles,


(b) the use of laser acupuncture, magnetic therapy or
acupressure, and


(c) moxibustion (Jiu) and suction cup (Ba Guan);


"acupuncturist"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to practise
acupuncture;


"dentist"
means a person authorized under the
Dentists Act
to practise dentistry;


"doctor of traditional Chinese medicine"
means a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner who is
authorized under the bylaws to use the title "doctor of
traditional Chinese medicine";


"herbalist"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to prescribe,
compound or dispense Chinese herbal formulae (Zhong Yao Chu Fang)
and Chinese food cure recipes (Shi Liao);


"medical practitioner"
means a person authorized under the
Medical Practitioners Act
to practise medicine;


"naturopath"
means a person authorized under the Naturopathic Physicians
Regulation to practise naturopathic medicine;


"prescribe"
means to give directions, either orally or in writing, for the
preparation and administration of a traditional Chinese medicine
remedy to be used in the treatment of a disorder or an imbalance;


"traditional Chinese medicine"
means the promotion, maintenance and restoration of health and
prevention of a disorder, imbalance or disease based on
traditional Chinese medicine theory by utilization of the primary
therapies of


(a) Chinese acupuncture (Zhen), moxibustion (Jiu) and suction
cup (Ba Guan),

(b) Chinese manipulative therapy (Tui Na),

(c) Chinese energy control therapy (Qi Gong),


(d) Chinese rehabilitation exercises such as Chinese shadow
boxing (Tai Ji Quan), and


(e) prescribing, compounding or dispensing Chinese herbal
formulae (Zhong Yao Chu Fang) and Chinese food cure recipes (Shi
Liao);


"traditional Chinese medicine practitioner"
means a registrant authorized under the bylaws to practise
traditional Chinese medicine.





Designation



2

(1)  Traditional Chinese medicine and acupuncture are
designated as health professions.


(2)  The "College of Traditional Chinese Medicine
Practitioners and Acupuncturists of British Columbia" is the name
of the college established to regulate traditional Chinese
medicine and acupuncture.





Reserved titles



3

(1)  No person other than an acupuncturist may use the title
"acupuncturist".


(2)  No person other than a traditional Chinese medicine
practitioner may use the title "traditional Chinese medicine
practitioner".


(3)  No person other than a herbalist may use the title
"traditional Chinese medicine herbalist".


(4)  No person other than a doctor of traditional Chinese
medicine may use the title "doctor of traditional Chinese
medicine".





Scope of practice



4

(1)  An acupuncturist may practise acupuncture, including


(a) the use of traditional Chinese medicine diagnostic
techniques, and


(b) the recommendation of dietary guidelines or therapeutic
exercise.


(2)  A traditional Chinese medicine practitioner may practise
traditional Chinese medicine.





Reserved acts



5

Subject to section 14 of the Act,


(a) only a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner,
acupuncturist or herbalist may make a traditional Chinese medicine
diagnosis identifying a disease, disorder or condition as the
cause of signs or symptoms,


(b) only a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or a
herbalist may prescribe those Chinese herbal formulae listed in a
schedule to the bylaws of the College, and


(c) only a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or an
acupuncturist may insert acupuncture needles under the skin for
the purposes of practising acupuncture.





Limitations on practice



6

(1)  No acupuncturist or herbalist may treat an active
serious medical condition unless the client has consulted with a
medical practitioner, naturopath, dentist or doctor of traditional
Chinese medicine, as appropriate.


(2)  A traditional Chinese medicine practitioner or an
acupuncturist may only administer acupuncture as a surgical
anaesthetic if a medical practitioner or a dentist is physically
present and observing the procedure.


(3)  An acupuncturist or herbalist must advise the client to
consult a medical practitioner, naturopath, dentist or doctor of
traditional Chinese medicine if there is no improvement in the
condition for which the client is being treated within two months
of receiving treatment.


(4)  In the event a client does not consult with a medical
practitioner, naturopath, dentist or doctor of traditional Chinese
medicine, an acupuncturist or herbalist must discontinue treatment
if


(a) there is no improvement in the condition for which the
client is being treated after four months from the date treatment
commenced,


(b) the condition for which the client is being treated
worsens, or

(c) new symptoms develop.

(5)  An acupuncturist or herbalist must not use traditional
Chinese medicine diagnostic techniques except as authorized in the
bylaws.





Patient relations program



7

The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f)
of the Act.



Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 80/96.


[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 12]





