




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Environmental Management Act


Post-Consumer Residual Stewardship Program Regulation

B.C. Reg. 111/97





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 449/2004, effective October 7,
2004.





B.C. Reg. 111/97

O.C. 333/97


Deposited March 27, 1997






Environmental Management Act


Post-Consumer Residual Stewardship Program Regulation




Part 1 - Introduction




Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"association"
means an association for which notification has been given to a
director under section 2 (2);


"brand-owner"
means


(a) a person in British Columbia who is the owner or licensee
of a trade mark under which a product is sold or otherwise
distributed in British Columbia, whether the trade mark is
registered or not, or


(b) a person who brings into British Columbia a product for
sale or other distribution in British Columbia;


"brand-owner plan association"
means an association that represents some or all of the
brand-owners in a product category and that files a plan on behalf
of those brand-owners under Part 2;


"collection facility"
means a return collection facility defined in B.C. Reg. 63/88, the
Hazardous Waste Regulation;


"container"
means a package, or fragment of a package, that is or was in
direct contact with a residual;


"empty container"
means a container that holds less than 3% residual by volume;


"plan"
means a plan approved under section 5;


"product"
means an item within a product category;


"product category"
means a category described in Schedule 1;


"residual"
means the portion of a product that remains after the consumer of
the product has no further use for it;


"seller"
means a person who, as a wholesaler, distributor or retailer,
sells or offers for sale a product.


[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2003, s. 1; 321/2004, s. 23 (a) and (b).]





Duty of a brand-owner



2

(1)  A brand-owner or brand-owner plan association must
comply with section 6 or Part 3 with respect to a product in order
to sell, offer for sale or distribute the product in British
Columbia.


(2)  If a brand-owner joins an association that will carry
out duties of the brand-owner under subsection (1), the
brand-owner, before the association begins to carry out these
duties, must notify a director in writing stating that it has
joined the association and specifying the duties under subsection
(1) the association will perform on behalf of the brand-owner.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/2003, s. 2; 321/2004, s. 23 (a).]





Duty of an association



3

An association must


(a) confirm in writing to the director the duties under
section 2 (2) it will perform on behalf of each brand-owner that
has joined the association, and


(b) comply with section 6 or Part 3, as the case may be, in
respect of the duties specified in writing to the director under
paragraph (a).





Annual report by director



4

On or before August 31 each year a director must publish a report
to the public stating the extent to which residuals are being
dealt with in accordance with this regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 23 (a).]



Part 2 - Stewardship Program




Approval of a stewardship program



5

(1)  A brand-owner or brand-owner plan association that
wishes to be covered by this Part must submit a plan on or before
the relevant deadline specified in Column A of Schedule 2.


(2)  On receipt of a plan for a stewardship program
respecting a product from a brand-owner or brand-owner plan
association, a director may approve the plan provided the director
is satisfied it adequately provides for


(a) consumer awareness of the proper use and storage of the
products,


(b) consumer awareness of the plan including safe storage and
transportation of residuals,


(c) the collection of residuals, including their containers,
resulting from all products currently or previously sold, offered
for sale or otherwise distributed in British Columbia,


(d) the reduction in the creation of residuals,


(e) the management of all residuals and containers collected,


(f) reporting to the director concerning compliance with the
plan,

(g) the term of the plan, and

(h) the manner in which the term of the plan may be extended
or the plan amended.


(3)  In deciding whether to approve the plan, the director
may consider


(a) the timelines and effectiveness of the plan respecting
the matters discussed in subsection (2) (a) to (g),


(b) the population and geographical area of the markets
served by the brand-owner or brand-owner plan association,


(c) the manner in which the product is marketed and retailed
by the brand-owner or brand-owner plan association,


(d) the nature of the residual and its container,


(e) the amount of product expected to be sold annually,


(f) the amount of residual expected to be collected annually,


(g) the accessibility and location of collection facilities,


(h) the manner in which sellers notify consumers of the
collection facilities,


(i) the manner and degree of advertising of collection
facilities,


(j) the methods of residual and container collection,
storage, transportation and management,


(k) the existence of plans operated by other brand-owners or
brand-owner plan associations of the product category,


(l) the structure of financial and operational co-operation
with other brand-owners,


(m) the possibility of reformulating and repackaging the
product to reduce residuals,


(n) the degree of adherence to the preferred order of
activity in the pollution prevention hierarchy, and

(o) the extent and frequency of reporting.

(4)  For the purposes of subsection (2) (n), the pollution
prevention hierarchy is as follows in descending order of
preference:


(a) avoid, eliminate or substitute products;

(b) reduce the use of products;

(c) eliminate or reduce the generation of residuals;

(d) reuse or recycle residuals;
(e) recover energy from residuals;
(f) treat or contain residuals;

(g) remedy contamination resulting from residuals.


(5)  In deciding to accept or reject a plan under this
section, a director may consider the advice of a committee of up
to 12 persons the director appoints for the purpose of giving
advice on this matter.


[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2003, s. 3; 321/2004, s. 23 (c).]





Exemption of paint stewardship program under the Post-Consumer
Paint Stewardship Program Regulation from refiling the plan under
Part 2



5.1

(1)  Subject to subsection (2), a brand-owner represented by
the brand-owner plan association in the paint stewardship program
approved by the director under section 4 of the Post-Consumer
Paint Stewardship Program Regulation, B.C. Reg. 200/94, is
exempted from the requirements of Part 2 to submit a plan for a
stewardship program.


(2)  A brand-owner and the brand-owner plan association
referred to in subsection (1) must comply with the paint
stewardship program approved under section 4 of the Post-Consumer
Paint Stewardship Program Regulation, B.C. Reg. 200/94, as if it
were a plan for a stewardship program under Part 2 of this
regulation, unless the brand-owner submits a new plan under Part 2
and that plan is approved by a director.


[en. B.C. Reg. 21/2003, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 23 (a).]





Timelines



6

If a director has approved a plan respecting a brand-owner or
brand-owner plan association, the brand-owner or brand-owner plan
association must comply with the plan by the relevant deadline
specified in Column B of Schedule 2.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/2003, s. 5; 321/2004, s. 23 (a).]





Written reasons required



7

A director must provide the brand-owner or brand-owner plan
association with written reasons whenever a plan is approved,
rejected, amended or rescinded under this Part.


[am. B.C. Regs. 21/2003, s. 5; 321/2004, s. 23 (d).]




Part 3 - Stewardship Requirements




Application of stewardship requirements



8

Commencing on the relevant date specified in Column B of Schedule
2, a brand-owner must meet the requirements of this Part for a
residual unless there is a plan for the residual.





Education



9

(1)  A brand-owner must provide to each seller of the
brand-owner's product, free of charge, consumer information
respecting

(a) safe use and storage of the products,

(b) safe storage and handling of the residuals and
containers, and


(c) location of and access to collection facilities.


(2)  The consumer information under subsection (1) must be
posted by the seller in the form of at least one clearly visible
sign with minimum dimensions of 56 cm by 43 cm and a minimum print
font size of 24 points that is in a contrasting colour to the
background colour of the sign at one or more of the following
locations:


(a) the main entrance to the seller's premises;

(b) the point of display;
(c) the point of sale.

(3)  The consumer information under subsection (1) must also
be distributed by the seller as a printed hand out with sufficient
copies for all consumers and these hand outs must be located at
one or more of the locations referred to in subsection (2).

(4)  For purposes of this section

"point of display"
means the area inside a seller's premises where products are
displayed;


"point of sale"
means an area of a seller's premises where the transaction to
purchase a product takes place.





Collection



10

(1)  A brand-owner must operate a collection facility for the
residuals, including their containers, of the products within the
product categories for the products it sells, offers for sale or
distributes.


(2)  If a collection facility is operated at a location other
than at the premises of a seller who sells the brand-owner's
products, the collection facility must be located within 4
kilometres by road from the seller's premises if the seller's
premises are located in an urban area, and located within 10
kilometres by road from the sellers' premises if the seller's
premises are located outside an urban area.


(3)  A brand-owner must make its collection facility


(a) available without charge to any consumer who wishes to
return residuals, including their containers, of the products
within the product categories for the products it sells, offers
for sale or distributes, and


(b) operate during regular business hours, 5 days a week, one
day of which must be Saturday.


(4)  For the purposes of subsection (2),
"urban area"
means a municipality, other than a regional district, incorporated
by or under an Act, that has a population greater than 25 000.





Further consumer notification



11

(1)  For the first 52 weeks after a collection facility is
opened, the brand-owners using the facility must notify the
consumers served by the collection facility concerning the
location and operating hours of the collection facility.


(2)  Notification under subsection (1) must be by inserting
an advertisement in a newspaper serving the consumers' area.


(3)  An advertisement under subsection (2) must have a
minimum dimension of 15 cm by 10 cm and be published


(a) once per week for the first 4 consecutive weeks, and

(b) thereafter once every 2 weeks.




Management



12

A brand-owner must handle all residuals and containers collected
at a collection facility provided by that brand-owner in the
following preferred order of management: reuse, recycle, recover
energy, treat, or contain.





Report



13

(1)  A brand-owner must, on or before April 30 in each year,
provide to a director a report respecting the preceding calendar
year including, but not limited to, the following:


(a) a description of educational materials and educational
strategies it uses for purposes of this regulation;


(b) the total amount of product sold and residual and
containers collected;


(c) the location of its collection facilities;


(d) the amount of residual and containers reused, recycled,
used for recovery of energy, treated or contained by or on behalf
of the brand-owner;


(e) efforts taken by or on behalf of the brand-owner through
reformulation or repackaging to reduce residuals and container
waste;


(f) a description and rationale, prepared by an independent
auditor, of the processes used by or on behalf of the brand-owner
to store, transport, reuse, recycle, recover energy from, treat or
contain residuals and containers;


(g) a description of the management system used by or on
behalf of the brand-owner to monitor the environmental
effectiveness of its efforts under this Part.


(2)  On or before April 30, July 31, October 31 and January
31 of each year a brand-owner must provide a director with
information on the total residuals and containers collected on its
behalf during the previous calendar quarter.


(3)  On or before April 30 of each year, a brand-owner
charging a fee associated with the stewardship program that is
charged separately and identified on the consumer receipt of sale
must provide a director with audited financial statements
detailing revenues and expenditures associated with its efforts
under this Part.

[am. B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 23 (a).]



Part 4 - Miscellaneous




Offence



14

(1)  A person who contravenes sections 2, 3 and 9 (2) or (3)
commits an offence.


(2)  A person who is convicted of an offence under subsection
(1) is liable to

(a) a fine not exceeding $200 000,

(b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or

(c) any combination of the above.

(3)  If an offence continues under subsection (1) for more
than one day, separate fines, each not exceeding the maximum fine,
may be imposed for each day the offence continues.





Spent



15

Spent.




Schedule 1

[am. B.C. Regs. 244/98; 21/2003, s. 6.]



1

The solvent and flammable liquids category includes all


(a) products with a flash point as tested by the ASTM D1310
Tag Open Cut Test Method of less than 61° C with the exception of


(i)  products containing less than 50% water-miscible
flammable liquid, as defined by the National Fire Code of Canada,
1990, as published by the National Research Council of Canada,
liquid by volume with the remainder of the product not being
flammable,


(ii)  liquids that have no fire point as tested by the ASTM
D1310 Tag Open Cut Test Method,


(iii)  wine and distilled spirit beverages,

(iv)  cosmetic and beauty products,

(v)  drugs, medicines and other health products,


(vi)  unpackaged products or products not ordinarily sold to,
used or purchased by a consumer without repackaging,


(vii)  pre-packaged products produced for use by commercial
or industrial enterprises without resale to other consumers as
pre-packaged goods,


(viii)  paint as set out in product category 8 of this
Schedule,


(ix)  coatings formulated for industrial or automotive use,


(x)  lubricating oil as defined by the Return of Used
Lubricating Oil Regulation, B.C. Reg. 64/92, and


(xi)  pre-packaged kerosene in containers larger than 9
litres, and


(b) paint strippers containing methylene chloride.





2

The pesticide category includes all domestic products registered
under the
Pest Control Products Act
(Canada) and displaying a poison hazard symbol on the label, with
the exception of

(a) insect repellents,
(b) sanitizers and disinfectants,
(c) pet products,

(d) unpackaged products or products not ordinarily sold to,
used or purchased by a consumer without repackaging, and

(e) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 144/98, s. (c).]




3

The gasoline category includes gasoline sold for use in spark
ignition engines and returned in an approved Underwriters
Laboratories of Canada container.





4

The pharmaceutical category includes all unused or expired solid,
liquid or gaseous substances or mixtures of substances
manufactured, sold or represented for use in


(a) the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of a
disease, disorder, abnormal state or the symptoms thereof, or


(b) restoring, correcting or modifying organic functions,


and this category includes prescription and non-prescription
medications as defined by the Drugs Directorate of Health Canada
and excludes veterinary products.





5

The lubricating oil category includes all petroleum-derived or
synthetic crankcase oils, engine and gear oils, and hydraulic,
transmission, and heat transfer fluids, and fluids used for
lubricating purposes in machinery or equipment.





6

The empty oil container category includes all empty containers
with a capacity of 30 litres or less, manufactured and used for
any product in the lubricating oil category in product category 5
of this Schedule.





7

The oil filter category includes all spin-on-style or
element-style fluid filters that are used in hydraulic,
transmission or internal combustion engine applications, and all
oil, diesel fuel, storage tank fuel, coolant and household furnace
oil filters, but does not include gasoline, air or household
furnace air filters.





8

The paint category includes


(a) latex, oil and solvent-based architectural coatings,
including paints and stains for commercial and household use,
whether tinted or untinted, and including empty containers for any
of these,


(b) paints and stains, whether coloured or clear, sold in
aerosol containers, and including empty aerosol containers for any
of these, but not including un-pressurized coatings formulated for
industrial, automotive or marine anti-fouling applications.




Schedule 2

[am. B.C. Reg. 21/2003, s. 7.]




Product Category


Column A


Column B




Solvent and flammable liquids


60 days following the date of

enactment


210 days following the date of

enactment




Pesticide


60 days following the date of

enactment


210 days following the date of

enactment




Gasoline


60 days following the date of

enactment


210 days following the date of

enactment




Pharmaceutical


On enactment of this

regulation


On enactment of this

regulation




Lubricating oil


60 days following the date of

enactment of this product category


180 days following the date of

enactment of this product category




Empty oil container


60 days following the date of

enactment of this product category


180 days following the date of

enactment of this product category




Oil filter


60 days following the date of

enactment of this product category


180 days following the date of

enactment of this product category




Paint


On enactment of this product

category


On enactment of this product

category





[Provisions of the
Environmental Management Act
, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 138]





