




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Act

Sanitary Regulations
B.C. Reg. 142/59





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 49/2009, effective March 31,
2009.





B.C. Reg. 142/59

O.C. 829/17






Health Act


Sanitary Regulations





Interpretation



1

"Health district"
or
"district"
in these regulations means any district over which a local board
of health has jurisdiction, irrespective of the manner in which
such local board is by law constituted or appointed.





Where and how in force



2

The rules and regulations hereinafter contained shall be in force
in all parts of British Columbia, and it shall be the duty of the
local board of health to enforce, and cause to be enforced, the
said rules and regulations; and every such board of health shall
have power, whenever and as often as necessary, to call upon any
person to assist in the enforcement of the same.

[am. B.C. Reg. 736/75.]




Repealed



3

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 736/75.]





Officer authorized to act for local board



4

All powers conferred upon local board of health by these or any
other regulations of the Provincial Board may be exercised, and
the duties imposed by the same be performed, by any officer or
agent thereto authorized by the local board.





Duties of the local board



5

(1)  Every local board of health shall


(a) conform to the instructions of the Provincial Board of
Health, and observe and execute all lawful orders and directions
of the board,


(b) superintend and see to the execution of, with care and
diligence, the regulations of the Provincial Board, or execute or
aid in executing the same; also, within their respective
jurisdictions, carry out the provisions of any of the
Health Acts
of the Province as shall apply to the local board; and shall
provide all such acts, matters, and things as are necessary for
the superintending or aiding in the execution of the regulations
of the Provincial Board or the various
Health Acts
of the Province, or for execution of the same, as the case may
require,


(c) defray the expenses incurred in carrying out such
Health Acts
or regulations in the manner set forth in sections 8 and 12 or 16
of the
Health Act
,


(d) meet and organize as soon as practicable after election
or appointment,


(e) hold regular quarterly meetings, and special meetings
whenever considered necessary by its executive officer, also
whenever requested by the Provincial Board of Health or the
chairman and secretary thereof,


(f) make and keep a record of all proceedings at its
meetings, and of all transactions, doings, orders and regulations
of such board,


(g) cause to be made public the provisions of the various
Health Acts
of the Province and regulations of the Provincial Board of Health,


(h) provide each medical practitioner practising within its
district with blank forms, as recommended by the Provincial Board
of Health, on which to report to the said local board or its
medical officer any case of infectious, contagious or epidemic
disease of a character dangerous to the public health, and also
with blank forms on which to report death or recovery from any
such disease,


(i) give notice within 24 hours, by telegraph or registered
letter, to the Provincial Board of Health of the first case of
such dangerous disease within its district; and shall further
furnish, every 7 days, or oftener if the Provincial Board of
Health so requires, a statement showing the number of new cases
developed, the number of those who have died and the number who
have recovered or are still sick,


(j) when applied to by the secretary of the Provincial Board
of Health, give to him such information as it may be able to
furnish with respect to any matter to which the duties of the
local board relate,


(2)  The secretary of the local board shall, before December
1 in each year, prepare a report containing a detailed statement
of the work of the board during the year, and a report of the
sanitary condition of the district, including any reports rendered
to the board by the medical health officer or sanitary inspector.
A copy of such report shall be transmitted by the secretary to the
secretary of the Provincial Board of Health.





Duties of medical health officer



6

The following shall be the duties of the medical health officer in
respect of the district for which he is appointed:


(a) He shall inform himself, as far as practicable,
respecting all influences affecting or threatening to affect,
injuriously, the public health within the district;


(b) He shall inquire into and ascertain, by such means as are
at his disposal, the causes, origin and distribution of disease
within the district, and ascertain to what extent the same have
depended on conditions capable of removal or mitigation;


(c) He shall, by examination of the district, both
systematically at certain periods (at least once a year) and at
intervals, as occasion may require, keep himself informed of the
conditions injurious to health existing therein, and shall
certify, for the guidance of the local board, as to any matter in
regard to which the certificate of the medical health officer or a
medical practitioner is required as a basis of action or in aid of
sanitary measures;


(d) He shall be prepared to assist and advise the local board
and its officers in matters relating to the public health, and to
advise on all questions of sanitation involving action on the part
of the board; and he shall also advise on any point relating to
health involved in the framing and subsequent working of bylaws
and regulations as the local health authorities have power to make
or enforce;


(e) On receiving information of the outbreak of any
contagious, infectious or epidemic disease of a dangerous
character within the district, he shall visit without delay the
spot where the outbreak has occurred and inquire into the causes
and circumstances of such outbreak, and in case he is not
satisfied that all due precautions are being taken, he shall
advise the persons competent to act as to the measures which may
appear to him to be required to prevent the extension of the
disease, and, so far as he may be able, assist in the execution of
the same;


(f) He shall direct or superintend the work of the public
health inspector, in the way and to the extent that he shall deem
necessary; and on receiving information from the public health
inspector that his intervention or aid is required in consequence
of the existence of any nuisance injurious to health, or of any
overcrowding in a house, or in connection with the inspection of
food, drink or drugs, he shall, as early as practicable, take such
steps as he is authorized to take by any statute, bylaw or
regulation, or by resolution of the local board, as the
circumstances of the case may justify or require;


(g) He shall inquire into any offensive process or trade
carried on within the district, and report on the appropriate
means for the prevention of any nuisance or injury to health
therefrom;


(h) He shall keep a journal, in which he shall enter his
visits, inspections and other proceedings, with notes of his
observations and any instructions he may give. The dates shall in
every case be carefully noted. He shall produce such journal
whenever required by the local board. He shall also keep a record
of all cases of infectious disease reported to him;


(i) He shall from time to time report, in writing, to the
local board his proceedings and the measures which may require to
be adopted for the improvement of protection of the public health
of the district. He shall report in like manner with respect to
sickness and mortality within the district, so far as he has been
enabled to ascertain the same;


(j) He shall annually prepare a report, in duplicate, for
presentation to the local board, for the year ending December 1,
which report shall contain


(i)  a general account of the sanitary state of his district
and the measures which, in his opinion, should be adopted for its
improvement,


(ii)  a statement of his inquiries and proceedings, and the
matters in regard to which he has given evidence or taken action
during the year,


(iii)  a statement of the causes, origin and distribution of
diseases in the district, and the extent to which the same have
depended upon or been influenced by conditions capable of removal
or mitigation,


(iv)  a summary of the actions taken to prevent the outbreak
or spread of infectious disease, and an account of the hospitals
or other means of isolation existing within the district, and


(v)  a tabular statement of the sickness and mortality within
the district,


provided that, if the medical health officer ceases to hold office
before December 1, he shall make the like report for so much of
the year as shall have expired when he ceases to hold office;


(l) He shall perform all duties imposed upon him by any
statute, or by any sanitary or health bylaw or regulation in force
in his district, and, in any case in which it may appear to him
necessary or advisable, he shall exercise any authority conferred
upon him by any such statute, bylaw or regulation, and likewise
perform such other duties and lawful acts for the preservation of
the public health as may in his opinion be necessary, or as may be
required by the board;


(m) In matters not here specifically provided for, he shall
observe and execute any instructions issued by the Provincial
Board of Health, and lawful orders and directions of the local
board.





Acting public health inspector



7

In districts where no public health inspector is appointed, the
chief constable of the district shall act as public health
inspector, and all the duties and powers assigned to a sanitary
inspector may be performed and exercised by him, or by any
constable designated by him for that purpose.

[am. B.C. Reg.33/73.]




Duties of sanitary inspector



8

The following are the duties of the public health inspector in
respect to the district for which he is appointed:


(a) He shall perform, either under the special direction of
the local board or under the directions of the medical health
officer, or, in cases where no directions are required, without
such directions, all the duties specially imposed upon a public
health inspector, by any statute or bylaw or regulation in force
in the district, or by the instructions of the Provincial Board of
Health, so far as the same apply to his office;


(b) He shall, by inspection of his district, both
systematically at certain periods (at least once a year) and at
intervals as occasion may require, keep himself informed in regard
to the nuisances existing therein that require abatement; such
inspection shall include inspection from time to time of all
shipping within his district;


(c) On receiving notice of the existence of any nuisance
within the district, or the breach of any bylaws or regulations
made for the suppression of nuisances, he shall, as early as
practicable, visit the spot, and inquire into such alleged
nuisance or breach of bylaws or regulations;


(d) He shall report to the local board any noxious or
offensive businesses, trades or manufactories established within
the district, and the breach or non-observance of any statute,
bylaw or regulation in respect to the same;


(e) He shall from time to time, and forthwith upon complaint,
visit and inspect the shops and places kept or used for the
preparation or sale of butcher's meat, poultry, fish, fruit,
vegetables, corn, bread, flour, milk or other articles to which
the provisions of any statute dealing with the public health or of
these or any other regulations or bylaws in force in the district
shall in this behalf apply, and examine any animal, carcass, meat,
poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour,
milk or other articles as aforesaid which may be therein; and in
case any such article appear to him to be intended for food for
man and to be unfit for such food, he shall cause the same to be
seized and take such other proceedings as may be necessary in
order to have the same dealt with according to law; provided that,
in case of doubt arising under this clause, he shall report the
matter to the medical health officer with the view of obtaining
his advice thereon;


(f) He shall, when and as directed by the local board or
medical health officer, procure and submit samples of food, drink
or drugs suspected to be adulterated, for analysis by any
competent analyst (named or appointed by the local or Provincial
Board of Health), and upon receiving a certificate stating that
the articles of food, drink or drugs are adulterated, cause a
complaint to be made and take such other proceedings as may be
necessary to procure conviction, after which he shall cause all
the adulterated articles to be destroyed;


(g) He shall give immediate notice to the medical health
officer of the occurrence within the district of any contagious,
infectious or epidemic disease, and whenever it appears to him
that the intervention of such officer is necessary, in consequence
of the existence of any nuisance injurious to health, or of any
overcrowding in a house, he shall forthwith inform the medical
health officer thereof;


(h) He shall attend to the instructions of the medical health
officer with respect to any measures, such as the quarantining or
disinfecting of a house or any infected person or thing, or any
other measures that may be lawfully taken by a public health
officer or inspector for preventing the spread of any contagious,
infectious or epidemic disease of a dangerous character;


(i) He shall enter from day to day, in a book to be provided
by the local board, particulars of his inspections and of the
action taken by him in the execution of his duties. He shall also
keep a book or books so arranged as to form, as far as possible, a
continuous record of the sanitary condition of each of the
premises inspected, or in respect to which any action has been
taken, and shall keep any other systematic records required. He
shall produce any such book whenever requested by the local board
or medical health officer, and give any information required that
he may be able to furnish with respect to any matter to which the
duties of public health inspector relate. He shall also attend all
meetings of the local board when so required. He shall from time
to time report in writing to the local board his proceedings and
the matters in regard to which action should be taken by the
board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 33/73.]




Deposits endangering public health forbidden



9

No person shall suffer the accumulation upon or escape from his
premises, or deposit or permit the deposit, upon any land
belonging to him or under his control, of anything so as to
endanger the public health, or shall deposit, or suffer or permit
to be deposited, in, upon, on or into any street, square, lane,
byway, wharf, dock, slip, lake, pond, bank, harbour, river, stream
or water, any manure or other refuse, or vegetable or animal
matter, or filth of any kind, or any dead animal.





Duty of sanitary inspector as to lands, etc.



10

It shall be the duty of the local board or public health inspector
to keep a vigilant supervision over all streets, lanes, byways,
lots or premises upon which any such accumulation as aforesaid may
be found, and at once to notify the parties who own or occupy such
lots or premises, or who, either personally or through their
employees, have deposited such manure, refuse, matter, dirt or
filth in any street, lane or byway, or who permit or suffer the
accumulation thereof, to cleanse the same and to remove what is
found thereon; and such parties shall forthwith remove the same,
and if the same be not removed within 24 hours after such
notification, the local board or public health inspector may cause
the parties so offending to be prosecuted, and may also cause the
same to be removed at the expense of the person or persons so
offending. The local board may inspect, or cause to be inspected
by the public health inspector, at intervals, all premises
occupied by persons residing within its jurisdiction.

[am. B.C. Reg. 33/73.]




Examination of buildings or premises by sanitary inspectors



11

Whenever it shall appear to the local board or to any of its
officials that it is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, or for the abatement of anything dangerous to the public
health, or whenever they or he shall have received a notice signed
by one or more inhabitant householders of the district, stating
the condition of any building in the district to be so filthy as
to be dangerous to the public health, or that upon any premises in
the district there is any foul or offensive ditch, gutter, drain,
privy, cesspool, ash pit or cellar kept or constructed so as to be
dangerous or injurious to the public health, or that upon any such
premises an accumulation of dung, manure, offal, filth, refuse,
stagnant water or other matter or thing is kept so as to be
dangerous or injurious as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the
local board or public health inspector to enter such buildings or
premises for the purpose of examining the same, and, if necessary,
order the removal of such matter or thing as aforesaid. If the
occupant or proprietor, or his lawful agent or representative
having charge or control of such premises, after having had 24
hours notice from any such officer or board to remove or abate
such matter or thing as aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to
remove or abate the same, he shall be subject to the penalties
imposed for infraction of these regulations. The local board or
public health inspector shall abate or cause to be abated
summarily, and by force if necessary, any nuisance likely to be
injurious to the public health.

[am. B.C. Reg. 33/73.]




Notice to put premises in proper sanitary condition or to quit
same



12

If the local board is satisfied, upon due examination by itself or
officer, that a cellar, room, tenement or building within its
jurisdiction, occupied as a dwelling place, has become by reason
of the number of occupants, want of cleanliness, the existence
therein of a contagious or infectious disease or other cause,
unfit for such purpose, or that it has become a nuisance or in any
way dangerous to the health of the occupants or of the public, it
may issue a notice in writing to such occupants, or any of them,
requiring the said premises to be put in proper sanitary
condition, or, if it sees fit, requiring the occupants to quit the
premises within such time as the board may deem reasonable. If the
person so notified, or any of them, neglect or refuse to comply
with the terms of the notice, every person so offending shall be
liable to the penalties imposed for infraction of these
regulations, and the board may cause the premises to be properly
cleansed at the expense of the owners or occupants, or may remove
the occupants forcibly and close up the premises, and the same
shall not again be occupied as a dwelling place until put into
proper sanitary condition; or the board, if it sees fit, may,
subject to the provisions of section 102 of the
Health Act
, cause such premises to be destroyed, with the consent of 2
Justices of the Peace.





Sale of unwholesome food, etc.



13

No person shall offer for sale as food any diseased animal, or any
meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, milk or any other article of food,
drink or drugs which, by reason of disease, adulteration or
impurity, or any other cause, shall be unfit for use.





Repealed



14–36

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/83.]




Water Supply




Duty of dwelling owner



37

The landlord of a dwelling which is not connected to a waterworks
system shall not rent or let that dwelling unless he can provide
the tenant with a supply of safe and potable water for domestic
purposes.

[en. B.C. Reg. 79/92.]




Complaints, how made, etc.



38

In case the water supply as aforesaid is drawn from a well or
spring, any person complaining of the quality of the water therein
shall make complaint to the local board or public health
inspector, in writing, giving full information as to the location
of the well or spring complained of, and an approximate estimate
of the number of persons or animals using the water from the said
well or spring; and upon receipt of the complaint in writing as
aforesaid, the public health inspector shall as soon as
practicable procure a sample of the water from such well or spring
in the presence of at least one credible witness, which sample
shall be immediately sealed up by said inspector in an airtight
receptacle, and be given or forwarded by him to an analyst named
or appointed by the Provincial or local Board of Health; and on
receipt of the report of the analysis the local board shall act in
accordance with the report.

[am. B.C. Reg. 33/73.]




Duty of local health authorities



39

Whenever it can be shown that danger exists or may arise to the
health of the inhabitants from the insufficiency or
unwholesomeness of the existing supply of water, it shall be the
duty of the local health authorities to provide the district over
which it has jurisdiction with a supply of wholesome water, if a
proper supply can be got at reasonable cost, and such local health
authority may make reasonable rules respecting and charges for
such water supply, and such charges may be collected in a summary
manner before one Justice of the Peace.





Compulsory use of public supply



40

When a wholesome public supply of water has been provided, either
by the local board or a water company, the board may compel the
abandoning of the use of any well, spring or other source of water
supply, and require the owner of any house to connect his house
with the water mains of such public supply whenever the same
extend to or pass by his property.





Wells to be cleaned out, etc.



41

All wells which are in use, whether such wells are public or
private, shall be cleaned out on or before the 15th days of March
and October in each year; and in case the local board certifies
that any well should be filled up, such well shall be forthwith
filled up by the owner of the premises.





Distance of wells from possible source of contamination



42

Every well hereafter sunk or dug shall be located at least 100
feet from any probable source of contamination, such as a privy
vault, cesspool, manure heap, stable or pigsty, and at least 20
feet from any dwelling house, and at least 400 feet from any
cemetery or dumping ground; unless, owing to the physical
conformation, contamination of such well be impossible from such
cemetery or dumping ground. Any like source of contamination
existing within the aforesaid distances from any well now in use
shall be removed where possible, or in default the well shall be
abandoned and filled up; but this rule shall not apply to wells
situated less than 20 feet from a dwelling house, unless other
good cause than proximity to such dwelling house can be shown why
such well shall be abandoned.





Contaminating wells or public supply forbidden



43

No person shall bathe, wash, cleanse any wool, cloth, leather,
skins or animals, or put or cause to be placed any dead animal, or
part of the carcass of any dead animal, or any decayed or filthy
animal or vegetable matter, in or near any stream or the tributary
of any stream, well, spring, reservoir, pond or other source from
which water or ice is drawn, taken or used for domestic purposes;
or shall cause, permit or suffer any sewage, washing or other
offensive matter from any sink, privy closet, cesspool, factory,
trade's establishment, slaughter house, washhouse, tannery or
other place over which he shall have control, to flow or percolate
thereinto, or into any drain or pipe communicating therewith; or
cause any other thing to be done whereby the water supply of any
city, town, village, community or household is in anywise tainted
or fouled, or rendered unfit for drinking or domestic purposes.





Repealed



44–47

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 266/96.]





Diseased animal



48

No animal affected with an infectious or contagious disease shall
be brought or kept within British Columbia.





Repealed



49

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/75.]





Repealed



50

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 411/85, s. (b).]





Repealed



51–56

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/75.]




Dwelling Houses




Airspace, ventilation



57

No person shall let, occupy or suffer to be occupied, as a
dwelling or lodging, any room which


(a) does not contain at all times at least 384 cubic feet of
airspace for each person occupying the same,


(b) has not a window made to open in the manner approved by
the local board, or


(c) has not appurtenant to it the use of a water closet or
earth closet constructed in accordance with these regulations;


and every room in which a person passes the night, or is found
between midnight and 5 o'clock in the forenoon, shall be deemed to
be occupied as a dwelling or lodging within the meaning of this
rule.





Repealed



58–59

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/75.]





Shutting down of privies



60

All privy closets, privy pits or vaults, cesstanks or cesspools
now in use are hereby declared nuisances, and the same shall be
thoroughly emptied, cleaned and disinfected and filled with clean
earth. The contents of such privy vaults or cesspools shall be
disposed of as prescribed by the medical health officer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 243/68.]




Repealed



61

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 243/68.]





Repealed



62–63

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 202/67.]




Disposal of Garbage and Refuse




Garbage and remains of food



64

Every householder and every hotel and restaurant keeper, or other
person, shall dispose of all garbage for the disposal of which he
is responsible, either by burning, by burying at least 3 inches
and not more than 30 inches below the surface of the ground, or
placing it in a proper covered receptacle, the contents of which
shall be removed once a week or more often, if the medical health
officer thinks necessary. Remnants of food fit for use of hogs or
other animals may, if kept in a separate receptacle, be at once
fed to such animals. Other animal or vegetable waste of the
kitchen shall, when removed, be disposed of as described by
section 67.





Dry refuse and ashes



65

Every person shall dispose of all house sweepings, dust, waste
paper, rags and similar dry refuse not liable to putrefaction,
either by burning, or placing it in a suitable dustbin or barrel,
to be removed at least once a month. All ashes shall be placed in
a separate covered receptacle, where they may be kept dry and be
removed at least once a month, unless the same be intended for use
in a privy closet. No garbage or other waste liable to
fermentation or putrefaction shall be placed in any receptacle for
ashes or in any dustbin. The contents of the dustbin and ashes
shall be ultimately disposed of as prescribed by these
regulations. Ashes or any of the above mentioned dry refuse
suitable for the purpose may be used for road making or filling in
low-lying places.




Pollution of Streams




Depositing refuse and discharging unpurified sewage and other
liquids forbidden



66

(1)  No solid refuse or waste matter of any kind shall be
deposited in any stream so as to obstruct its flow, or put into
any stream or lake so as to pollute its waters, and no solid or
liquid sewage matter from either public or private sewers shall be
discharged into any stream or lake, but if it can be proved that
the best means have been adopted to purify the sewage, etc.,
before it enters the stream or lake, no offence is committed, that
is unless the local board has notified the offending parties that
the means adopted are insufficient; nor shall any poisonous,
noxious or polluting liquid proceeding from any other source be
passed into any stream or lake unless the best means have been
first adopted to purify the same.

(2) and (3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 559/82.]
[am. B.C. Regs. 159/69; 559/82.]



Ultimate Disposal of Waste Materials




Repealed



67

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/75.]





Befouling of streets, etc., forbidden



68

No person shall throw, draw off or allow to run into or upon any
public ground, street or open drain the contents, or any part
thereof, of any vault, water closet, privy, cesspool or sink, or
any filthy matter of any kind.





Repealed



69

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 34/75.]





Spitting



70

(1)  No person shall spit or expectorate upon the floor or
upon any other part of any public building, tramcar, railway car
or other public conveyance, or otherwise pollute the same by the
deposit of sputum thereon.


(2)  Any person who violates or commits a breach of the
preceding subsection within any public building or tramcar may be
forthwith removed and ejected therefrom by any constable or police
officer, or by the person or persons in charge of such public
building or tramcar.





Reporting escape of toxic material



70.1

Where any person, whether by accident or design, enables or allows
a potentially toxic solid, liquid or gaseous chemical under his
control to escape, he shall forthwith report all the circumstances
to the nearest medical health officer.

[en. B.C. Reg. 5/72.]



Penal Clause




Penalty $100 or imprisonment or both fine and imprisonment



71

Any person who violates any order, direction, bylaw or regulation
of a local board, made pursuant to the Act or these regulations,
shall be liable, on summary conviction, under the
Offence Act
, for every such offence to a fine not exceeding $100, with or
without costs, or to imprisonment, with or without hard labour,
for a term not exceeding 6 months, or to both fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the convicting Justice.





Spent



72–73

Spent.



[Provisions of the
Health Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 179, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 8]





