




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Health Professions Act

Denturists Regulation
B.C. Reg. 68/2000





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 270/2008, effective October 17,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 68/2000

O.C. 203/2000


Deposited February 21, 2000






Health Professions Act


Denturists Regulation





Definitions



1

In this regulation:


"complete denture"
means a dental prosthesis supported by soft tissue which replaces
the natural teeth and associated structures in an edentulous arch
and is not attached to or supported by natural teeth or implants
and which is removable by the patient;


"dentist"
means a person authorized under the
Dentists Act
to practise dentistry,


"implants"
means a device that has been inserted into, over, through or under
the jawbone for the purpose of supporting a dental prosthesis;


"overdenture"
means a dental prosthesis which replaces natural teeth, is
removable by the patient and is


(a) attached to or supported by implants, or


(b) attached to, supported by or covers retained roots or
natural teeth;


"edentulous arch"
means a dental arch with no remaining natural teeth or roots;


"partial denture"
means a dental prosthesis which

(a) is removable by the patient,

(b) restores one or more natural teeth or associated
structures, and


(c) is supported in part by natural teeth, crowns, or mucosa;


"prescribed services"
means services provided by a denturist in accordance with the
prescription of a dentist; and


"prescription"
means a complete written description and design of a partial
denture or an overdenture, by a dentist, including any advisory
regarding the oral environment or tooth structure.





Designation



2

(1)  Denturism is designated as a health profession, and


(2)  The College of Denturists of British Columbia is the
name of the College established under section 15 (1) of the Act.





Reserved title



3

No person other than a registrant may use the title denturist.





Scope of practice



4

A registrant may carry out non-surgical intraoral procedures to


(a) make, repair, reline, replace, or furnish complete
dentures,


(b) reline, replace teeth, or make repairs to partial
dentures and overdentures, and


(c) in accordance with a prescription, make or furnish
partial dentures and overdentures.





Reserved acts



5

Subject to section 14 of the Act,


(a) no person other than a registrant may carry out
non-surgical intraoral procedures to make or furnish complete
dentures, and


(b) no person other than a registrant who meets the
additional qualifications established in the bylaws may carry out
non-surgical intraoral procedures to make or furnish overdentures
and, partial dentures.





Limitations on practice



6

(1)  No registrant may expose or interpret radiographs.


(2)  No registrant may make or furnish a partial denture
which is supported by an implant and natural teeth.


(3)  A registrant may only provide a partial denture or
overdenture which is removable by the patient.


(4)  No registrant may reline, replace natural teeth or make
structural repairs to a partial denture or overdenture unless the
patient has been examined by a dentist within the previous 365
days.


(5)  Despite subsection (4) a registrant may reline, replace
a tooth or make structural repairs in an urgent situation if a
dentist is not available and the registrant immediately refers the
patient to a dentist.


(6)  No registrant may cut, grind, scale, clean, restore,
alter or polish natural teeth, crowns, or implants.


(7)  Subject to subsection (8), no registrant may provide
prescribed services except in accordance with the prescription.


(8)  A registrant may alter a prescription where


(a) the prescribing dentist gives prior consent to the
alteration,


(b) the altered prescription is noted by the registrant and
the prescribing dentist on the patient's record, and


(c) the altered prescription is communicated to a dental
technician involved in the fabrication of the dental prosthesis.


(9)  A registrant must provide a prescribed service


(a) subject to paragraph (b), within 90 days after the
prescription is issued, or


(b) with the approval of the prescribing dentist, within 365
days if this approval is noted by the registrant and the
prescribing dentist on the patient's record.


(10)  Subject to subsection (11), after a patient has been
fitted with an overdenture or partial denture, the registrant


(a) must refer the patient to the prescribing dentist for an
examination of the mouth and of the functioning of the overdenture
or partial denture, and


(b) must not provide further services until the examination
referred to in paragraph (a) has occurred.


(11)  A registrant may perform minor adjustments to improve
the fit or function of an overdenture or partial denture within 90
days prior to the examination by the prescribing dentist referred
to in subsection (10).


(12)  Unless authorized by a dentist, a registrant may not
deliver to a patient or adjust a complete denture, partial denture
or an overdenture in an arch where, after the removal or loss of
teeth, wound closure is incomplete, sutures are still present or
bone is exposed.





Patient relations program



7

The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f)
of the Act.





Health profession corporations



8

Part 4 of the
Health Professions Act
applies to denturism.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2006, s. 2.]


Note:
this regulation repeals B.C. Reg. 510/95.


[Provisions of the
Health Professions Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 12]





