




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Railway Act


Part II: General Operating Regulations

B.C. Reg. 453/59





Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.





B.C. Reg. 453/59


O.C. 2886/59; Certificate 1003

1








Railway Act


Part II: General Operating Regulations




Interpretation




Definitions





In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the
Railway Act
of British Columbia;


"chief inspector"
or
"inspector"
means an inspecting engineer, inspector or assistant inspector
appointed under the provisions of the Act or of the
Public Service Act
;


"company"
means a railway company incorporated under the Act, and includes
every person and every company by Act of the Legislature
authorized to construct, own or operate a railway within the
Province;


"conductor"
or
"head brakeman"
means any person in charge of a train whose duty it is to receive
train orders and to conduct the operation of a train upon a
railway;


"dispatcher"
means any person whose duty it is to issue train orders and to
direct the movement of trains upon a railway;


"freight trailer"
means any railway conveyance other than standard railway
equipment, or hand push cars, on which freight is transported and
which is hauled by rail car motive power;


"hand car"
means a railway vehicle self-propelled by muscular power and of
such proportions that it can be removed from the rails by hand;


"locomotive"
, wherever mentioned in these regulations, is defined as any
self-propelled vehicle operating on the tracks of a railway,
equipped with air or mechanical brakes, or both, and the necessary
standard equipment, such as automatic couplers, etc., by means of
which it can be used for the handling of logging, passenger and
freight cars of any standard railway equipment;


"locomotive engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating a locomotive.

[am. B.C. Reg. 40/91, s. 2.]



Definitions




Definitions



"common carrier railway"
means a company engaged in the operation of a railway or tramway
transportation service for hire which serves the public;


"current of traffic"
means the movement of trains on a main track, in one direction,
specified by the regulations;


"extra train"
means a train not authorized by a timetable schedule, which may be
designated as


(a)
"work extra"
for a work train,


(b)
"passenger extra"
for an extra passenger train,


(c)
"extra"
for any other extra train;


"fixed signal"
means a signal of fixed location indicating a condition affecting
the movement of a train;


"industrial railway"
means a company engaged in the operation of a railway, tramway or
aerial tramway transportation service which does not serve the
public;


"locomotive crane"
means any railway crane capable of movement under its own motive
power and shall include steam shovels, ditchers, pile drivers and
any other self-propelled work equipment;


"locomotive crane engineer"
means any person having charge of or operating a locomotive crane;


"main track"
means a track extending through yards and between stations, upon
which trains are operated by train order, or the use of which is
controlled by block signals;


"owner"
means the person who is the registered owner in fee, and, subject
to payment to the Crown of any unpaid purchase money, includes a
purchaser of Crown lands and a pre-emptor of Crown lands;


"passenger trailer"
means any railway conveyance in which passengers or workmen are
transported and which is hauled by rail car motive power;


"pilot"
means a person assigned to a train when the engineer or conductor,
or both, are not fully acquainted with the physical
characteristics or running rules of the road, or portion of the
road, over which the train is to be moved;


"power car"
or
"rail car"
means any railway conveyance in which passengers or workmen are
transported and which is self-propelled by its own motive power;


"power car operator"
means any person having charge of or operating a power car;


"railway"
means any railway which the company is authorized to construct and
operate, and includes all branches, sidings, stations, depots,
wharves, rolling stock, equipment, works, property (real or
personal) and works connected therewith, and also every railway
bridge, tunnel or other structure connected with the railway and
undertaking of the company;


"siding"
means a track auxiliary to the main track for meeting or passing
trains, limited to the distance between 2 adjoining telephone
stations;


"single track"
means a main track upon which trains are operated in both
directions;


"speeder"
means a 4 wheeled railway vehicle similar to a hand car but
propelled by a motor, such as is generally used by section gangs
or by officials for inspection purposes;


"station"
means a place designated by a signboard by name, at which a train
may stop for traffic, or to enter or leave the main track, or from
which fixed signals are operated;


"superior train"
means a train having precedence over another train;


"train"
means a locomotive or power car, or more than one locomotive or
power car coupled, with or without cars displaying markers;


"train of superior right"
means a train given precedence in the direction specified by the
company's rules;


"yard"
means a system of tracks within limits defined by yard limit
boards provided for the making up of trains, storing of cars and
other purposes, over which movements may be made subject to
prescribed signals and rules;


"yard engine"
means an engine assigned to yard service and working within yard
limits.

[am. B.C. Reg. 40/91, s. 2.]



Extent and Application of Regulations




Application of regulations and company rules



1

These regulations shall govern the operation of all railways
operating under the jurisdiction of the government of British
Columbia, except where the minister has approved special operating
rules for a railway company operating as a common carrier.
Otherwise, company operating rules approved by the minister shall
be deemed to be in addition to the regulations as herein set forth
except as otherwise provided in this Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 488/74.]




Employees subject to regulations



2

Persons employed in any service on trains or speeders are subject
to these regulations and must be conversant with them.





When employees doubt meaning of rule or regulation



3

Employees when in doubt as to the meaning of any rule or
regulation must apply to the proper authority for an explanation.





Employees must have copies of rules



4

All employees whose duties are prescribed by rules shall be
provided by the company with a copy of said rules, and a receipt
taken for same and kept on file in the company's office.





Examination to be passed



5

Employees must pass the required examination.





Rules must be followed



6

Employees must render every assistance in their power in carrying
out the rules. Any violation of the rules must be reported.





Intoxicants prohibited



7

The use of intoxicants by employees, while on duty, is prohibited.
Their use, or the frequenting of places where they are sold, is
sufficient cause for dismissal.




Certification of Operators




Conductor



8

(1)  Except where special rules are approved by the minister
respecting common carrier railways, no person, unless holding a
certificate granted by the minister, shall be employed as
conductor or head brakeman in charge of a train; provided,
however, that in case of illness or other unavoidable cause the
conductor in charge is absent from duty, without fault or
collusion of the owners or of any person interested, and a
conductor holding such certificate is not available, then such
deficiency may be filled temporarily until a conductor holding
such certificate can be obtained, and the chief inspector shall be
immediately notified of the temporary change by the owner of the
railway and by the person acting temporarily as conductor.


(2)  Upon application in writing by the company, the chief
inspector may issue a temporary permit to a sufficiently qualified
applicant to act as conductor on the railway specified, such
permit to be good only for one month from date of issue.


(3)  Candidates for examination must fill out a form of
application which can be obtained from the chief inspector and,
when properly filled in, should be returned to him, together with
the applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


(4)  Candidates for examination as conductor must have at
least 12 months service as trainman or brakeman and must enclose
with their application testimonials to this effect from their
former or present employers, together with a certificate as to
their eyesight and hearing from a qualified doctor.


(5)  Railway companies having operating rules approved by the
minister must examine their employees as to their general ability
and knowledge of such rules before giving them employment or
promotion as conductors. They must also notify the chief inspector
at least one month before such examinations take place, in order
that an inspector appointed by the ministry may be in attendance,
in which case employees passing such an examination satisfactory
to the inspector shall not be required to be the holders of
certificates of competency as conductors granted by the minister.


(6)  If a conductor proves to the satisfaction of the chief
inspector that he has lost his certificate, or that it has been
destroyed, he may obtain a duplicate of the original upon payment
of the applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees Regulation.


(7)  A conductor must be at least 21 years of age and, except
as otherwise provided in this Part, must hold a certificate
granted by the minister.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 1 (a), (b); 2/99, App. 1, ss. 1-2.]





Locomotive engineers



9

Locomotive engineers must be at least 21 years of age and hold a
certificate granted by the minister in accordance with Part III,
Locomotives [B.C. Reg. 454/59].





Power car operators



10

Power car operators must be at least 18 years of age and hold a
certificate granted by the minister in accordance with Part V,
Power cars [B.C. Reg. 456/59].





Locomotive crane engineers



11

Locomotive crane engineers must be at least 18 years of age and
hold a certificate granted by the minister in accordance with Part
IX, Locomotive Cranes [B.C. Reg. 460/59].





Dispatcher



12

(1)  Except where special rules are approved by the minister
with respect to dispatching on common carrier railways, no person
shall be employed as dispatcher, and no person shall act as
dispatcher on a railway, except he is the holder of a certificate
in that behalf granted by the minister; provided, however, that in
case of illness or other unavoidable cause the dispatcher in
charge is absent from duty, without fault or collusion of the
owners or of any person interested, and a dispatcher holding such
certificate is not available, then such deficiency may be filled
temporarily until a dispatcher holding such certificate can be
obtained, and the chief inspector shall be notified of the
temporary change by the owner.


(2)  Pursuant to the preceding subsection and upon
application in writing by the company, the chief inspector may
issue a temporary permit to a sufficiently qualified person to act
as dispatcher on the railway specified, such permit to be valid
only for a period of 30 days from date of issue.


(3)  Candidates for examination as dispatchers must fill out
a form of application which can be obtained from the chief
inspector and, when properly filled in, shall be returned to him,
together with the applicable fee prescribed in the Railway Fees
Regulation.


(4)  Candidates for examination as dispatcher must have at
least 2 years service in the railway running trades, or 2 years
experience in train service, or one year experience as dispatcher.


(5)  Railway companies having operating rules approved by the
minister must examine their employees as to their general ability
and knowledge of such rules before giving them employment or
promotion as dispatchers. They must also notify the chief
inspector at least one month before such examinations take place,
in order that an inspector appointed by the ministry may be in
attendance, in which case employees passing such an examination
satisfactory to the inspector shall not be required to be the
holders of certificates of competency as dispatchers granted by
the minister.


[am. B.C. Regs. 172/87, s. 1 (a); 2/99, App. 1, s. 3.]





Repealed



13

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 1, s. 4.]




Certificates May be Cancelled, Marked or Revoked




Term of certificate



14

Every certificate of competency, unless otherwise restricted,
shall be granted for life, or during good conduct, but if it be
proven to the minister the holder is guilty of negligence or has
refused to comply with any of the provisions of the regulations,
the minister may suspend, mark or revoke his certificate.




General Regulations




Locomotive movement



15

Locomotives shall not be moved, either on shop track or in
roundhouse, without first making sure that there is no person or
persons working around or under same.





Headlights



16

Headlights on the front of every locomotive shall be displayed at
night. (NOTE — Operation of power cars used for conveying
passengers or workmen or for hauling other cars is defined in Part
V [B.C. Reg. 456/59].)





Spouts of standpipes and water tanks



17

The spout of standpipes, when not in use, shall be fastened
parallel with the main track, and enginemen are required to see
that this is done after using any such pipe. The spouts of water
tanks shall be properly put back into clear position before
proceeding.





Passengers on locomotives



18

Engineers shall not allow persons other than the train crew or
authorized officials to ride on locomotives without a written
order from manager or superintendent.





Safe riding on cars



19

Trainmen shall see that all persons ride in a safe position on
cars. No persons, except the train crew, shall be allowed to ride
on cars loaded with logs.





Trainmen's duties



20

(1)  Trainmen shall not allow persons to get on or off trains
while in motion.


(2)  On skeleton logging cars where hand operated retainers
are used, trainmen shall not set such retainers while the train is
in motion.





Clear tracks before moving cars



21

Trainmen shall see that the tracks are clear where workmen are
working before moving cars. Cars shall not be "kicked" on to
tracks where cars are being loaded or unloaded or where there are
boarding cars.





Protection of car left on main line



22

No car shall be left on any main line without being properly
protected.





Passengers, baggage and goods



23

Attention is directed to section 185 (1) to (9) of the
Railway Act
respecting the carrying of passengers, baggage or goods.





No freight in car with passengers



24

No train shall have any freight, merchandise, lumber or logging
car in the rear of any car carrying passengers or workmen.





Position and speed of locomotives



25

(1)  Except as otherwise ordered in writing by the minister,
all trains with cars carrying passengers or workmen shall be
headed by locomotives, and no such car shall be pushed ahead of
the locomotive except in case of switchbacks.


(2)  With the exception of tank locomotives equipped with
pilot on tender, no locomotive running tender first shall exceed a
speed of 25 miles an hour.





Log haulage across tracks



26

When in yarding it is necessary to haul logs across a track, every
train must be brought to a full stop within 200 feet of the point
of crossing, unless or until given signals by flagmen to proceed.
Warning signs shall be set and maintained 80 rods from each side
of point of log haulage across any railway.





Application of B.C. Reg. 457/59



27

Part VI, Uniform Regulations Governing the Determination of Visual
Acuity, Colour Perception, and Hearing of Railway Employees [B.C.
Reg. 457/59], shall govern.





Standard time



28

Standard time will be taken from dispatcher's clock.





Train safety responsibility



29

Every conductor and engineman shall be responsible for the safety
of his train and, under conditions not provided for by the
regulations, take every precaution for the protection of his
train.




Dispatching and Train Movements




Sections 31 to 51 apply



30

With reference to dispatching and train movements, every company
shall observe and carry out, and shall cause its employees to
observe and carry out, the provisions of sections 31 to 51,
inclusive.





Dispatcher requirement



31

Every company shall have in its employment a properly qualified
dispatcher as set forth in section 12, who shall observe and carry
out the duties hereinafter imposed on a dispatcher.





Dispatcher qualifications



32

No company shall appoint any person as a dispatcher unless that
person is at least 21 years of age, and is familiar with the line
in respect to which he is to act as dispatcher, and has passed an
examination on train rules and the rules of the company as set
forth in section 12.





Dispatcher methods and records



33

The dispatcher must carry out train dispatching under methods
approved by the ministry. All movements must be entered on
dispatch sheets. Dispatch sheets must be of approved type and all
entries shall be made in ink.





Train orders



34

No company shall permit the movement of any locomotive, train,
motorcar, speeder or other equipment except pursuant to a train
order made by the dispatcher. A train order may be given verbally
by telephone or in writing. Orders shall be in writing on common
carrier roads.





Use of assigned number in train order



35

When a dispatcher issues an order in relation to a motor, speeder
or locomotive, he shall designate the motor, speeder or locomotive
to which the order relates by using the number assigned to that
motor, speeder or locomotive.





Verbal orders



36

When a dispatcher issues an order by telephone, he shall, before
issuing the order, ascertain that the person receiving the message
at the receiving telephone station is one of the following
persons, namely: the head brakeman, the speederman, or, in the
case of a light engine, the engineer of the equipment to which the
order relates. The head brakeman, speederman or engineer receiving
the order shall confirm the order by repeating it to dispatcher,
who shall thereupon indicate whether or not the order has been
correctly repeated.





Flagmen



37

In case of telephone failure or any other reason whereby
communication with dispatcher is not obtainable, persons in charge
of all trains and speeders shall cause them to be protected by
flagmen on the portion of the line affected.





Entry onto main line



38

The person in charge of a train or speeder shall not permit the
train or speeder to leave the initial point or to enter the main
line at a junction without an appropriate order from the
dispatcher, and then only in accordance with that order.





Arrival of train at destination



39

On the arrival of a train or speeder at its destination, the
person in charge of the train or speeder shall immediately notify
the dispatcher of the arrival.





Persons to be notified of proposed train movement



40

The head brakeman shall, before the movement in respect to which
any order of a dispatcher relates, notify the trainmen, engineer
and firemen of that order.





Which train takes siding



41

The persons in charge of trains at meeting points shall, in
determining which train shall take the siding, be governed by the
company's rules or by order issued by the dispatcher.





Speeder meeting train



42

In case a speeder meets a train, the speederman shall, unless
otherwise ordered by the dispatcher, cause the speeder to take the
siding.





Stopping of train at meeting point



43

At a meeting point the person in charge of every train or speeder
shall bring the train to a stop, unless otherwise ordered by the
dispatcher.





Stopping point to be clear of switch



44

At a meeting point the person in charge of a train or speeder
shall stop his train or speeder clear of the switch to be used by
the opposing train or speeder.





Movement past meeting point



45

The person in charge of a train or speeder shall not cause it to
pass any meeting point until he is satisfied that the train or
speeder met is the train or speeder mentioned in the order of the
dispatcher.





Actions must be in accordance with order



46

With respect to the movement of any train to which any order of a
dispatcher relates, all persons affected shall act only in
accordance with that order.





Numbering of camps, junctions, etc.



47

To facilitate dispatching, it is recommended that every company
cause every camp, junction and spur to be numbered and all passing
tracks to be lettered.





Numbering of motors, speeders and locomotives



48

Every company shall assign to each motor, speeder and locomotive a
distinctive number, and shall cause that number to be displayed in
conspicuous figures on the motor, speeder or locomotive to which
it has been assigned, and no company and no employee of a company
shall operate a motor, speeder or locomotive unless a number has
been assigned and displayed as required by this rule.





Distance between trains and speeders



49

The person in charge of a train or speeder following a train or
speeder shall keep his train or speeder at a distance not less
than 1 500 feet from the preceding train or speeder.





Protection of trains



50

Where an accident or delay to a train or car on a main or branch
line is likely to endanger the safety of that or any other train
or car, the head brakeman shall properly protect the train or car
at both ends with flags or signals, so as to ensure that
approaching trains come to a standstill at a sufficient distance
to avoid accident.





If part of train detaches



51

If a train parts while in motion, the trainmen shall take every
step to prevent damage to the detached portion and shall cause the
signals prescribed by sections 105 (d) and 107 (f) to be given. No
person shall cause the detached portion to be moved or passed
until the front portion has returned to the detached portion.




Coupling Cars and Riding Footboards




No standing in front of moving engines or cars



52

Trainmen shall not be allowed to stand in front of moving engines
or cars for the purpose of boarding same, whether engine or car is
proceeding backward or forward.





No entering between cars when in motion



53

Trainmen must not enter between cars when in motion for the
purpose of adjusting drawbars or knuckles, or raising locking
blocks, or turning angle cock, or uncoupling air hose with either
hand or foot.





No riding on footboards



54

Trainmen are prohibited from riding on footboards between engine
and cars when cars are being pushed and on leading footboard while
coupling engines to cars.




Switching




Warning before switching



55

When switching in yards or where men are working around the track,
trainmen must give warning and see that workmen are clear before
starting to switch cars.





Engine pushing car



56

Except in case of shifting and making up trains in yards where
there are no highway crossings at rail level, the person in charge
of an engine shall not cause that engine to push any car unless
there is a flagman in a conspicuous position on the front of the
leading car.





Train movement at level crossing



57

Whenever in any city, town or village any train is passing over or
along a highway at rail level, and is not headed by an engine
moving forward in the ordinary manner, the company shall station
on that part of the train, or of the tender if that is in front,
which is then foremost a person who shall warn persons standing
on, or crossing, or about to cross the track of such railway.





Switch position responsibility



58

When a switch has been used by a train, the conductor of that
train shall, after his train has passed over the switch, see that
the switch is set in its proper position. Conductors are
responsible for the position of the switches used by them and
their trainmen, except where switch tenders are stationed.





Train standing at level crossing



59

Whenever any railway crosses any highway at rail level, the
company shall not, nor shall its officers, agents or employees,
wilfully permit any engine, tender or car or any portion thereof
to stand on any part of such highway for a longer period than 5
minutes at one time, nor, in shunting, to obstruct public traffic
for a period longer than 5 minutes at one time, nor, in the
opinion of the minister, unnecessarily interfere therewith.





Open switch



60

No person shall leave a switch open for a following train, unless
said switch is in charge of a trainman of such train.





Derails



61

It shall be the duty of every trainman to see that derails are
properly put in operation to derail rolling stock left on spur
tracks, sidings, loading works or tracks where down grade exists
or where otherwise derailment is necessary for the protection of
train movement on any railway.




Brake Tests




Brake testing



62

Engineers must personally make a terminal test of the airbrakes
when the locomotive is coupled to a train. The train brake system
shall be fully charged. During the charging period, train brakes
shall be examined by the conductor or trainman for leakage and the
necessary adjustments made to reduce the leakage to a minimum. It
must be known that all angle cocks throughout the train are open,
brake pipe cut-out cocks open, release valves closed, retaining
valve handles turned down, and hand brakes fully released unless
required on grades. After the train brake system is charged to the
required pressure, the engineer upon request or proper signal will
make a service reduction of the brake pipe pressure of 20 pounds,
leave the brake valve handle on lap position and note brake pipe
leakage, which must not exceed 7 pounds in one minute. Conductors
and trainmen shall examine the train brakes to see that the brakes
are applied in service application on each car and that the piston
travel is between 6 and 8 inches and that the brakeshoes are
firmly against the wheels. When the release signal is given, the
engineer must release the brakes through the engineer's brake
valve and trainman must see that all brakes are released.
Conductor or trainman must notify the engineer of the car or cars
on which the brakes are not in proper working order.





Airbrakes



63

Engineers must assure themselves that airbrakes are working
properly by making a running test of the brakes as soon as speed
of train permits and before descending heavy grades. At least 85%
of the number of cars in every train shall have airbrakes in good
working order. The engineer of the leading engine, when more than
one engine is attached to a train, shall control and operate the
train.





Handbrakes



64

No train of cars shall be left standing without a locomotive until
the handbrakes are set and the airbrakes bled. After recoupling,
handbrakes must not be released until airbrakes are fully charged.





Retaining valves on grades



65

Retaining valves must be used when descending grades whenever
required by the company's instructions, or whenever it is
considered necessary for the safe operation of the train.




Loads and Load Inspection




Load inspection



66

Head brakemen shall personally inspect all cars, especially loads
with logs, before they are coupled to the engine, and shall
satisfy themselves that all cars are properly and securely loaded
and that the couplings and airbrakes are in good order; and if
there is any doubt as to the safety of such loading or the
efficiency of brakes or couplings of any car, the train shall
proceed slowly to the nearest sidetrack and the head brakeman
shall set out the said car before proceeding with his train.





Loads on common carrier railways



67

Where cars are loaded for transit on the railways of common
carriers, all companies shall strictly conform to the regulations
from time to time approved by the American Association of
Railroads governing the loading of lumber, logs and stone upon
open cars, and the loading and carrying of structural material,
plates, rails and girders; and no material of any kind shall be
carried on the roofs of cars.





Inspection of train before starting up



68

No conductor or trainman shall permit his train to start until he
is satisfied that every car in the train is in good order. He
shall, pursuant to section 62 of this Part, inspect them whenever
he has an opportunity to do so, particularly when entering or
leaving sidings or waiting for other trains. Brakemen must inspect
with extra care all cars taken in their train at intermediate
stations.




Long Loads and Bad Order Cars




Bad order cars



69

Not more than 2 bad order cars shall be hauled on any one train,
and if train line is out of order, bad order cars must be kept at
the rear of the train and attached to train by safety straps or
chains.





Cars with cut out brakes



70

When any cars with brakes cut out are in trains, not more than 2
of such cars shall be hauled together.





Boomsticks or double loads



71

Boomsticks or double loads will be carried at rear end of train
and shall, in the event of the continuity of the train line not
extending to the rear car, be equipped with an approved device
which will set the emergency airbrakes in the train should the
rear car of the split load slip or break away.




Explosives and Goods of Dangerous Nature




Storage of explosives



72

Storage of explosives shall comply with Federal Government
regulations.





No dangerous goods on train carrying passengers



73

Explosives or goods of a dangerous nature must not be placed on
locomotives or on cars carrying passengers or workmen, and no car
carrying any such goods shall be attached to any train or car
carrying passengers or workmen.




Appliances




Winter equipment



74

(1)  All locomotives shall be equipped with appliances for
sanding the rail in front and back of wheels and shall have a
sufficient supply of dry sand at all times.


(2)  During the winter season, November 1 to April 30, front
windows of locomotive cabs operating on common carrier railways
shall be equipped with double windows, the same to be made
airtight; or with an air jet defroster acting upon a single pane
of glass, or such a device as may be approved by the ministry for
the purpose of preventing the frosting over of front windows.





Engineer inspection of locomotive



75

Engineers must personally see that their locomotives are in good
working order before putting them in service; special attention
being given to handholds, footboards, automatic couplers and
levers, airbrakes, sanding devices, gauge glasses and guards, test
cocks, steam gauges, safety valves and steam leaks that obscure
vision.





Cars used for carrying workmen



76

All cars used for carrying workmen must be equipped with an air
emergency valve and handbrake so placed that trainmen can apply
same when necessary, and on logging railways must be provided in
addition with saw and axe racks. These must be maintained in
proper condition at all times. Doors, when used, must not be more
than 4 feet wide. Handholds must be placed on each side of door
openings and will extend down to not less than 4 feet from the top
of rail. Where double doors are used, stanchions or handrails
shall be attached so that handrails will be not less than 4 feet
apart. Handrails are to have free clearance of not less than 2 1/2
inches from body of car. Bottom step of car is to be not more than
14 inches from top of rail.





Platforms



77

Whenever possible platforms should be provided for workmen getting
on and off cars.





Hand brakes



78

Hand brakes on logging cars must be applied and released without
the necessity of the employees having to let go of the brake
handle. Cars equipped with brake mast handles with spare ends
fitted to brake mast are prohibited. Hand brakes on logging cars
must be of approved type as specified in Part IV, Regulations
[B.C. Reg. 455/59].





Standards



79

All railway equipment is to be constructed in accordance with the
Association of American Railroads' standards. (See Part IV,
Regulations [B.C. Reg. 455/59].)




Maintenance




Car repair details



80

Car repairers must pay special attention to automatic couplers,
operating levers and chains, air brakes, hand brakes, lever and
ratchet. Any defect in these is dangerous and must be repaired
before being put in use again.





Numbering of rolling stock



81

All rolling stock shall be designated by a number. Duplication of
numbers must be avoided.





Cleaning dates marked on equipment



82

Cleaning dates of brake cylinders and triple valves shall be
stencilled directly on such equipment with white paint. Chalk or
other marking substitutes for this purpose will not be permitted.





Hand brakes on skeleton logging cars



83

All skeleton logging cars shall be maintained with an approved
type of hand brake as set forth in Part IV, Regulations [B.C. Reg.
455/59]; such brake shall be kept in working order.





Footboards



84

(1)  Footboards on motive power shall be maintained as set
forth in Part IV [B.C. Reg. 455/59].


(2)  Split footboards shall have end blocking properly
maintained at inside ends of footboards.





Openings on logging cars



85

On logging cars all openings over draught gear must be covered
over to comply with safety standards as set forth in Part IV,
Regulations [B.C. Reg. 455/59], and such covering shall be
maintained in good order.




Use of Bell and Whistle




Signals when moving locomotives



86

Locomotives shall not be moved at any time without sounding bell
or whistle.





Signals when at crossings, etc.



87

The whistle must be blown when approaching highway crossings,
yards and places where men are working at least 80 rods before
reaching same. The bell must be kept ringing continuously at
highway crossings or when passing through yards from the time of
the sounding of the whistle until the engine is clear of such
crossings or yards.





Unnecessary use of signals prohibited



88

The unnecessary use of either the whistle or the bell is
prohibited. They will be used only as prescribed by rule or law or
to prevent accident.





Signals when approaching trestles and bridges



89

On trestles and bridges the length of which exceeds 200 feet,
approaching motive power shall blow warning whistles when not less
than 1 500 feet distant.




Lights and Flags




Display of headlights on trains at night



90

The headlights will be displayed to the front of every train by
night, but must be concealed when a train turns out to meet
another and has stopped clear of main track, or is standing to
meet trains at the end of double track or at junctions and switch
properly set for approaching train.





Display of headlights on yard engines at night



91

Yard engines will display the headlight to the front and rear by
night. When not provided with a headlight at the rear, 2 white
lights must be displayed. Yard engines will not display markers.
Under conditions not requiring display of markers, road engines
without cars will display a white light on the rear of the tender
by night.





Lights on cars



92

(1)  When cars are pushed by an engine (except when shifting
or making up trains in yards), a white light must be displayed on
the front of the leading car by night.


(2)  Marker lights must be displayed by night to indicate the
rear end of every train when standing or being moved on any main
track, branch track or passing track where traffic is moving or
may be moving, as follows: When the rear car consists of a
caboose, passenger coach or workmen's car, there shall be one
marker light on each side of rear displaying green lights to the
front and sides and red light to the rear if running with the
current of traffic or standing on a main track or branch track;
when the rear car of any train is other than a caboose, passenger
coach or workmen's car, there shall be one marker light only on
the rear centre displaying green light to the sides and red to the
rear if running with the current of traffic or standing on a main
track or branch track. If standing on passing track clear of the
main track, all trains will display green to the rear. The lights
displayed to the rear must be changed from green to red before a
train fouls the main track when leaving a passing track, or
returns to the main track with the current of traffic.


(3)  By night, or in foggy or stormy weather, a red light
must be placed on unattended cars or dead engines obstructing main
tracks within yard limits.





Signals when workmen are near



93

A blue flag by day and a blue light by night, displayed at one or
both ends of an engine, car or train, indicates that workmen are
under or about it; when thus protected, it must not be coupled to
or moved. Workmen will display the blue signals, and the same
workmen are alone authorized to remove them. Other cars must not
be placed on the same track so as to intercept the view of the
blue signals, without first notifying the workmen.





Signals at road, street and highway crossings



94

(1)  Watchmen stationed at public road and street crossings
must use red signals only when necessary to stop trains.


(2)  A hand signal by day and a signal by (clear white light)
lantern at night will be used to protect the movements of vehicles
over railways at highway crossings at which trainmen are required
to give protection during the time trains are uncoupled at such
crossings.





Emergency signals for defective track



95

In emergency cases when track is suddenly found defective, any
employee shall, by the use of flags, lights or other signals, use
every effort possible to stop trains in both directions.





"Slow" signals



96

A "slow" sign or a yellow flag placed beside the track on the same
side as the engineer or motorman of an approaching train shall be
used to mark a point where a slow order is in effect. Maintenance
gangs shall display yellow flags at the side of the track 400 feet
in each direction from the point where such gangs are working.





Signals for entering sidings



97

The person in charge of a train or speeder when entering a siding
shall, if practicable, cause the train to pull into the siding; if
necessary to back into the siding, he shall, before backing into
the siding, cause the train to be protected by a flagman.




Signals




Imperfect or absent signal



98

A signal imperfectly displayed, or the absence of a signal at a
place where a signal is usually shown, must be regarded as a stop
signal, and the fact reported to the dispatcher.





Train start must await correct signal



99

The person in charge of a train shall not allow that train to
start until after the proper signal has been given.





Appliances for signalling



100

Employees whose duties may require them to give signals must
provide themselves with the proper appliances, keep them in good
order and ready for immediate use.





Flags and lamps



101

Flags of the prescribed colour must be used by day, and lamps of
the prescribed colour by night.





Use of night and day signals



102

Night signals are to be displayed from sunset to sunrise. When
weather or other conditions obscure day signals, night signals
must be used in addition.




Visible Colour Signals




Visible colour signals







Colour


Indication




(a) Red
Stop.



(b) Green

Proceed, and for other uses prescribed by the regulations.




(c) Yellow

Proceed with caution, and for other uses prescribed by the
regulations.




(d) Green and white
Flag stop.



(e) Blue

See
section 93.








Fusee on or near track



104

A fusee on or near the track burning red must not be passed until
burned out. When burning yellow, it is a caution signal.




Hand Flag and Lamp Signals


(Illustrated by diagrams)




Hand flag and lamp signals








Manner of Using


Indication




(a)
Swung across the track
Stop.



(b)
Raised and lowered vertically
Proceed.



(c)

Swung vertically in a circle at half arm's

length across the track when the train is standing



Back.




(d)

Swung vertically in a circle at arm's length

across the track when the train is running



Train has parted.




(e)

Swung horizontally above the head when the

train is standing



Apply air brakes.




(f)

Held at arm's length above the head when

the train is standing



Release air brakes.








Stop signal



106

Any object waved violently by anyone on or near the track is a
signal to stop.




Audible Signals




Engine whistle signals



107

NOTE — The signals prescribed are illustrated by "o" for short
sounds,"—" for long sounds. The sound of the whistle should be
distinct, with intensity and duration proportionate to the
distance signal is to be conveyed.






Sound


Indication




(a) o
Stop. Apply brakes.



(b) — —
Release brakes, or ready to proceed.



(c) — o o o
Flagman go out to protect rear of train.



(d) — — — —
Flagman return from west or south.



(e) — — — — —
Flagman return from east or north.



(f) — — —

When running, train parted; to be repeated until answered by
the signal prescribed by section 105 (d).

Answer to 105 (d).




(g) o o
Answer to any signal not otherwise provided for.



(h) o o o

When train is standing, back.

Answer to 105 (c) and 109 (c).

When train is running, answer to 109 (d).




(i) o o o o
Call for signals.



(j) — o o

To call attention of extra trains and of trains of the same
or inferior class or inferior right to signals displayed for
a following section.




(k) — — o —

Approaching public road crossings at grade and at whistle
posts as prescribed in section 87.




(l) —————

Approaching stations, watering and fueling points,
junctions, the end of double track, drawbridges, railway
crossings at grade. To be blown when approaching at one mile
distance.




(m) o —

When double heading, air brakes have failed on leading
engine and second engine is to take control of them. Answer
to 107 (m); to be given by second engine as soon as it has
control of air brakes.




(n) o o —
Answer to 107 (j).




A succession of short sounds of the whistle is an alarm for
persons or animals on the track.





Signals by torpedo explosion



108

The explosion of one torpedo is a signal to stop, the explosion of
2 not more than 200 and not less than 100 feet apart is a signal
to reduce speed and look out for a stop signal. Torpedoes must not
be placed near stations or public crossings, nor where persons are
liable to be injured by them.




Communicating Signals




Communicating signals







Sound


Indication




(a)
Two
When train is standing, start.



(b)
Two
When train is running, stop at once.



(c)
Three
When train is standing, back.



(d)
Three

When train is running, stop at next station.




(e)
Four

When train is standing, apply or release air brakes.




(f)
Four
When train is running, reduce speed.



(g)
Five
When train is standing, call in flagman.



(h)
Five
When train is running, increase speed.



(i)
Six

When train is running, increase steam heat.




(j)
Seven

When train is running, release air brakes, or sticking
brake.








Repealed



110

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 2/99, App. 1, s. 4.]




Demerit System on Industrial Railways




Demerit system



111

(1)  All persons employed in train service on industrial
railways shall be subject to an assessment of demerit marks by the
ministry, and a record shall be kept accordingly in the office of
the chief inspector. Demerit marks shall be assessed against the
record of any employee for any infraction of the regulations made
pursuant to the
Railway Act
or for a general disregard of safety to himself or his fellow
employees.


(2)  If, after full and proper investigation, it is proven to
the satisfaction of an inspector that any person employed in train
service has violated any of the regulations, such violation shall
be immediately brought to the attention of the employee concerned.


(3)  Anyone proved guilty of a violation as set forth in the
preceding subsection shall be notified in writing within 30 days
by the chief inspector setting forth the nature of the violation
and the number of demerit marks imposed for such violation.


(4)  The number of demerit marks imposed upon any person
shall be doubled for a repetition of the same offence.


(5)  A net accumulation of 60 demerit marks shall be cause
for the minister to order an employee out of train service for a
period of 12 calendar months.


(6)  Twenty demerit marks shall be cancelled from the
accumulated total for each 12 months' good behaviour.


(7)  Any person who considers an injustice has been done to
him, with respect to the imposition of demerit marks, may appeal
to the minister, and after such appeal has been acted upon the
person concerned shall be advised in writing as to the decision.


(8)  The imposition of demerit marks shall not be
misconstrued to exonerate the defaulter, upon summary conviction,
from penalties as prescribed under section 275 of the British
Columbia
Railway Act
.




Figures illustrating signals


Figure 1





Figure 2





Figure 3








1.


Regulation originally made by authority of minister, by
certificate, subject to approval of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council (see R.S.B.C. 1948-285-7), since July 8, 1976,
regulation made by authority of minister only.





[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of these
regulations: section 271]





