




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Credit Union Incorporation Act


Credit Union Directors Election Regulation

B.C. Reg. 308/90






NOTE:

Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)




SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE


Section 2

March 30, 2022



Section 3

March 30, 2022









Section 2 (3), (4), (5) and (6) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022,
effective March 30, 2022.




(3)

After




(a)

all nominations of the nominating committee, or




(b)

nominations made by such other procedure as the rules of the credit
union permit


have been placed before the meeting, the chairman of the meeting
shall call for nominations, if none have been placed before the
meeting, or for further nominations, as the case may be, from the
floor, and when the chairman has called 3 times for nominations or
further nominations or on motion duly adopted closing nominations,
nominations shall be closed.




(4)

After the close of nominations an election by secret ballot shall be
held to fill the vacancies in the offices for which the election is
being held or to appoint successors to those persons in office whose
term of office has expired or will expire at the close of the
meeting or on the election or appointment of their successors, or
both; provided always that if the number of qualified persons
nominated for the office is equal to or less than the number
required to be elected or appointed at that time, those members
shall be deemed to have been duly elected or appointed to hold that
office pursuant to the rules of the credit union without the
necessity of holding an election, on the declaration of the chairman
of the meeting to that effect.




(5)

The conduct of an election by secret ballot, if any is required,
unless the rules of the credit union otherwise provide, shall be in
accordance with the directions of the chairman of the meeting,
unless before the taking of the ballot such procedure is challenged,
in which event the procedure to be followed at the general meeting
in the taking of the ballot, unless the chairman is sustained by
majority vote, shall be determined by a majority vote of those
members present.




(6)

In the event of a tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have a
second or deciding vote.





Section 3 (8) BEFORE amended by BC Reg 76/2022, effective March 30,
2022.




(8)

In the event of a tie, the chairman of the nominating committee
shall cast a deciding vote.





