




"Point in Time" Regulation Content

Securities Act

Registration Transfer Rules
B.C. Reg. 193/97





Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 107/2008, effective June 1,
2008.





B.C. Reg. 193/97

BC Securities Commission


Deposited June 12, 1997






Securities Act


Registration Transfer Rules





Interpretation



1

In this regulation:


"Act"
means the
Securities Act
;


"designated organization"
means the Pacific District of the Investment Dealers Association;


"permitted individual"
has the meaning ascribed to that term in National Instrument
33-109
Registration Information
;


"prescribed fee"
means the appropriate fee set out in section 22 of the Securities
Regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 56/2001, s. 1; 39/2003, s. 1; 118/2007, Sch. C, s.
1.]





Delegation of powers and duties of the superintendent



2

(1)  For the purpose of the definition of "designated
organization" in section 1 of the Act and for the purposes of
section 184 (2) (e) to (i) of the Act, the Pacific District of the
Investment Dealers' Association of Canada may exercise the powers
conferred, and perform the duties imposed, by sections 4 to 7.


(2)  A designated organization may delegate any power or duty
conferred on it under this section to a committee of the
designated organization, and the decisions of the committee are
deemed to be the decisions of the designated organization.

[am. B.C. Reg. 56/2001, s. 2.]




Application



3

(1)  Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person must apply
to the designated organization for registration or renewal of,
reinstatement of or amendment to registration as

(a) an investment dealer,

(b) a trading partner, director or officer of an investment
dealer,


(c) a salesperson of an investment dealer, or


(d) an underwriter that is a member of a designated
organization.


(2)  A member of both designated organizations may apply
under subsection (1) to either designated organization.


(3)  Without the executive director's written consent, a
broker, investment dealer or underwriter that has applied to one
designated organization for registration or renewal, reinstatement
or amendment of registration must not apply to the other
designated organization.


(4)  A salesperson must apply to the designated organization
to which the salesperson's employer or prospective employer
applied for registration or renewal, reinstatement or amendment of
registration.


(5)  Despite subsection (4), an applicant under subsection
(1) for


(a) registration or renewal of registration as a salesperson,
or


(b) approval of the employment of a salesperson


who is to be restricted to trading through the trading systems of
the Vancouver Stock Exchange must apply to the Vancouver Stock
Exchange.

[am. B.C. Reg. 56/2001, s. 3.]




Powers and duties under sections 34 to 36 of the Act



4

(1)  On application by an applicant that is a member of the
designated organization and on payment of the prescribed fee the
designated organization may,


(a) subject to subsection (2), register an investment dealer,
underwriter or trading partner, director or officer or salesperson
of an investment dealer if the designated organization considers
the applicant to be suitable for registration in the capacity
applied for,


(b) subject to subsection (3) refuse to grant or renew a
registration referred to in paragraph (a) if the designated
organization considers the applicant to be unsuitable for
registration,


(c) renew, reinstate or amend a registration referred to in
paragraph (a), and


(d) subject to subsection (3), restrict a registration under
paragraph (a) or renewal, reinstatement or amendment of
registration under paragraph (c), by imposing conditions on the
registration, including but not limited to conditions restricting

(i)  the duration of registration, and

(ii)  the registration to trades in specified securities or
exchange contracts or to a specified class of securities or class
of exchange contracts.


(2)  Before exercising a power under subsection (1) (a), the
designated organization must satisfy itself that the applicant has
followed the proficiency and qualification requirements set out in
the bylaws, rules or other regulatory instruments or policies
established by the designated organization and that those bylaws,
rules or other regulatory instruments or policies have been


(a) filed with the commission before they take effect, and


(b) subject to subsection (3), not objected to by the
commission.


(3)  If the designated organization files a bylaw, rule or
other regulatory instrument or policy in accordance with
subsection (2) (a) and the commission does not give a written
notice of objection within 30 days of filing, the bylaw, rule or
other regulatory instrument or policy is deemed to have not been
objected to by the commission.


(4)  The designated organization must not exercise a power
under subsection (1) (b) or (d) without giving the applicant an
opportunity to be heard.

(5)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 39/2003, s. 2.]
[am. B.C. Regs. 56/2001, s. 4; 39/2003, s. 2.]




Powers under section 35 (2) of the Act



5

(1)  A designated organization may refuse registration,
pursuant to section 35 (2) of the Act, if an applicant or partner,
director or officer of an applicant is not a resident of British
Columbia on the date of application, unless, at the time of
application, the applicant or the applicant's partner, director or
officer


(a) is registered in a capacity corresponding to that of a
dealer, underwriter, adviser, trading partner, director or officer
or salesperson under the law of the jurisdiction respecting
trading in securities in which the applicant or the applicant's
partner, director or officer or salesperson last resided, and


(b) has been so registered for at least one year immediately
before the date of application.


(2)  The designated organization must not refuse to grant,
renew, reinstate or amend a registration without giving the
applicant an opportunity to be heard.





Subsequent application under section 37 of the Act



6

If an applicant to a designated organization for registration or
renewal of, reinstatement of or amendment to registration intends
to use information not previously submitted, or material
circumstances described in the applicant's previous application
have changed, the applicant may reapply to the designated
organization.





Powers under section 38 of the Act



7

A designated organization, with respect to its members, may
exercise the executive director's powers under section 38 of the
Act.





Registration information filings



8

A person within any of the following categories must submit the
information required by National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
to the designated organization:

(a) a person referred to in section 3 (1);

(b) an investment dealer submitting information about a
permitted individual;


(c) an underwriter submitting information about a permitted
individual.


[en. B.C. Reg. 39/2003, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 118/2007, Sch. C, s.
2.]





Records



9

(1)  A designated organization must keep for at least 7 years


(a) every application it receives under this regulation,

(b) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 39/2003, s. 4.]

(c) records of every decision it makes under this regulation
about registration including any reasons the designated
organization provides to an applicant, and


(d) every notice a dealer files under section 8.


(2)  A designated organization must permit the public to
inspect at the designated organization's place of business any
document required to be kept under subsection (1), except
applications it receives under section 3 and any reasons for
refusal of registration given to an applicant under section 4 (1)
(b).

[am. B.C. Regs. 56/2001, s. 6; 39/2003, s. 4.]


Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 477/95.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Regulations Regulation, B.C. Reg. 394/83, Part 2;
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, section 184]





