




Petroleum and Natural Gas (Vancouver Island Railway Lands) Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 362






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"board"
means the Surface Rights Board referred to in the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;


"interest"
includes any right, title, claim or interest;



"natural gas"

and
"petroleum"
have the same meanings as in the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;



"railway lands"

means the lands on Vancouver Island granted to the Dominion Government
by section 3 of

An Act Relating to the Island Railway, the Graving Dock, and Railway
Lands of the Province

, S.B.C. 1884, c. 14, and includes the lands referred to in
sections 4 and 6 of that Act.






Confirmation of dispositions




2

(1)


In this section,
"disposition"
means every disposition or purported disposition of any interest in
petroleum or natural gas or both in the railway lands made, before
June 17, 1986, by the government under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

or any enactment replaced by that Act.




(2)

Every disposition is confirmed and ratified, and for this purpose it
is declared that every interest in petroleum and natural gas that




(a)

existed in the railway lands affected by the disposition, and




(b)

was not, at the time of the disposition, vested in the government


was, immediately before that disposition, transferred to, vested in
and reserved to the government.




(3)

This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it full
effect.




(4)

Nothing in this section operates to revive or reinstate an interest
that a person had under a disposition if that interest was
subsequently abandoned, forfeited or surrendered to the government or
otherwise extinguished.






Confirmation of government title




3

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may order that all interests in
petroleum and natural gas in any part of the railway lands is
confirmed in or transferred to, and is vested in and reserved to, the
government if




(a)

before June 17, 1986, the petroleum and natural gas in that part of
those lands has not been the subject of a disposition or purported
disposition of petroleum or natural gas or both under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, and




(b)

the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers that in order to
facilitate exploration for or extraction of petroleum or natural gas
or both, it is desirable to make an order under this section.




(2)

An order under subsection (1)




(a)

must describe that part of the railway lands in respect of which it
applies, with sufficient particularity to identify the lands, and




(b)

is, despite any other enactment, but subject to subsections (3) and
(4), effective without further conveyance or transfer, to transfer to
and vest in the government all those interests in petroleum and
natural gas in the lands so described as are not already vested in the
government.




(3)

If an order is made under subsection (1), the minister




(a)

must publish a copy of the order or a summary of its contents in a
newspaper circulating in the area of the land affected, and




(b)

may post or erect, on or in the vicinity of the affected land, a sign
containing a copy of the order or a summary of its contents.




(4)

The transfer and vesting referred to in subsection (2) (b) takes
effect 30 days after the copy or summary referred to in subsection (3)
is first published as required by that subsection.






Compensation




4

(1)


A person who establishes, in accordance with this Act, that,
immediately before a transfer to and vesting in the government of
petroleum and natural gas under section 2 or under an order under
section 3, the person had an interest in that petroleum and
natural gas is, subject to this Act, entitled to compensation from the
government.




(2)

A person is not entitled to compensation in respect of an interest
that the person had in petroleum and natural gas unless the person
files in the prescribed manner particulars of the person's claim with
the board,




(a)

in the case of a transfer and vesting effected by section 2,
within one year after June 17, 1986, or




(b)

in the case of a transfer and vesting occurring under an order under
section 3, within one year after the transfer and vesting
takes effect.




(3)

A right to compensation under this section is personal property.




(4)

Compensation in respect of a person's interest in petroleum and
natural gas must not exceed the lesser of




(a)

if the petroleum and natural gas is the subject of a petroleum and
natural gas lease under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, the royalty reserved to the government under that Act, or




(b)

an amount equivalent to the royalty that the board considers would
have been paid to the owner.






Determinations by board




5

(1)


The board must determine whether persons who have filed particulars of
their claim in accordance with section 4 have established their
claim and the amount of compensation payable to them.




(2)

For the purpose of this section, Part 17 of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

applies, with any additions and modifications the Lieutenant Governor
in Council prescribes.






Application of
Land Title Act




6


If by the operation of this Act an interest in petroleum and natural
gas in railway lands is or becomes vested in the government, that
interest is deemed, for the purposes of the application of section 23
(2) (a) of the

Land Title Act

, to be held by the government under a subsisting exception and
reservation contained in the original grant of those lands from the
government.






Power to make regulations




7


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




