




Railway Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 395




Part 1 — Interpretation and Administration





Definitions




1


In this Act:


"bylaw"
, when referring to an act of a company, includes a resolution;


"charge"
, when used as a verb with respect to tolls, includes power to a
company to quote, demand, levy, take and receive and sue for and
recover, in any court of competent jurisdiction;


"code"
means the rules for railway system equipment, construction,
maintenance, operation, health and safety made under this Act;


"company"
means a company within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

that is authorized by this Act or a special Act to construct, own or
operate a railway;


"court"
means the Supreme Court;


"goods"
includes personal property of every description which may be conveyed
on the railway or on steam vessels or other vessels connected with the
railway;


"highway"
includes any public road, street, lane or other public way of
communication;


"justice"
means a justice of the peace acting for the district, county, polling
division, city or place where the matter requiring the cognizance of a
justice arises, and who is not interested in the matter, and if the
matter arises in respect of land, being the property of one and the
same person, located not wholly in any one district, county, polling
division, city or place, it means a justice acting for the district,
county, polling division, city or place where any part of the land is
located, and who is not interested in the matter;


"land"
includes the ground or soil and everything annexed to it, or that is
in or under the ground or soil, except mines and minerals, precious or
base, and extends to and includes mines and minerals to the extent and
so far as is necessary for the support of the surface, and also
extends to and includes foreshore and land covered with water;



"land title office"

, where any matter in relation to any land is by this Act required to
be done in any land title office, means the land title office for the
recording of instruments and registration of titles affecting the
land;



"municipality"

means a municipality within the meaning of the

Community Charter

;


"owner"
means the person who is the registered owner in fee, and, subject to
payment to the government of any unpaid purchase money, includes a
purchaser of Crown land and a pre-emptor of Crown land;


"railway"
means any railway which the company is authorized to construct and
operate, and includes all branches, sidings, stations, depots,
wharves, rolling stock, equipment, works, property and works connected
with the railway and all railway bridges, tunnels or other structures
connected with the railway and undertaking of the company;



"shareholder"

means a shareholder within the meaning of the

Business Corporations Act

;


"sheriff"
includes deputy sheriff or other legal competent deputy, and if any
matter in relation to land is required to be done by a sheriff, it
means the sheriff for the district, county or place where the land is
located, and if the land in question, being the property of one and
the same person, is located not wholly in one district, county or
place, it means the sheriff of the district, county or place where any
part of the land is located;



"special Act"

means any Act authorizing the construction and operation of a railway;



"telegraph or telephone"

includes wireless, radio telegraph and telephone;


"toll"
or
"rate"
means any toll, rate, charge or allowance charged or made either by a
company, or on or in respect of a railway owned or operated by the
company, or by any person on behalf or under authority or consent of
the company, in connection with the carriage and transportation of
passengers, or the carriage, shipment, transportation, care, handling
or delivery of goods, or for any service incidental to the business of
a carrier, and includes any toll, rate, charge allowance charged or
made




(a)

in connection with the rolling stock or the use of it, or any
instrumentality or facility of carriage, shipment or transportation,
irrespective of ownership or of any contract, expressed or implied,
with respect to the use of them,




(b)

for furnishing passengers with beds or berths on sleeping cars, or for
the collection, receipt, loading, unloading, stopping over, elevation,
ventilation, refrigerating, icing, heating, switching, ferrying,
cartage, storage, care, handling or delivery of, or in respect of,
goods transported or in transit, or to be transported, and




(c)

for the warehousing of goods, wharfage or demurrage, or the like,


or charged or made in connection with any one or more of the above
mentioned objects separately or conjointly;


"traffic"
means the traffic of passengers, goods or rolling stock;



"undertaking"

means the railway and works of whatever description which a company is
authorized to construct, maintain and operate, and all the land,
properties, assets, credits and effects of the company which the
company is authorized to acquire, own, hold and possess;



"working expenditure"

includes all of the following:




(a)

all expenses of maintenance of the railway and of the undertaking of a
company;




(b)

all the tolls, rents or annual sums paid in respect of the rolling
stock let to a company, or in respect of property leased to or held by
the company, apart from the rent of any leased line;




(c)

all rent charges or interest on the purchase money of land belonging
to a company, purchased but not paid for, or not fully paid for;




(d)

all expenses of or incidental to the working of the railway and the
traffic on it, including all necessaries, repairs and supplies to
rolling stock while on the lines of another company;




(e)

all rates, taxes, insurance and compensation for accidents or losses;




(f)

all salaries and wages of persons employed in and about the working of
the railway and traffic;




(g)

all office and management expenses, including directors' fees and
agency, legal and other similar expenses;




(h)

all costs and expenses of and incidental to the compliance by a
company with any order of the minister under this Act;




(i)

generally any charges not otherwise specified as, in all cases of
English railway companies, are usually carried to the debit of revenue
as distinguished from capital account.






Companies incorporated before March 1, 1911




2

(1)


This Act applies to every company incorporated before
March 1, 1911 under a special Act, whether or not the
company had or had not at that date constructed its railway, except
insofar as the provisions of this Act are by express provisions in the
special Act prevented from applying to the company, and express
mention in this behalf in any special Act of any section in any Act
repealed by S.B.C. 1911, c. 44, is, for the purposes of this section,
deemed to be an express mention of any corresponding section in this
Act.




(2)

A railway company incorporated before March 1, 1911 by a
special Act has, in addition to the powers conferred by the special
Act, all the powers conferred on a company by this Act.






Special application




3

(1)


For the purposes of this section:


"company"
means a person, firm or corporation that owns, constructs or operates,
or intends to own, construct or operate, a railway or tramway in
British Columbia and to which, except for this section, this Act would
not apply, and includes a corporation empowered to act as a carrier of
passengers and freight;


"railway"
means a railway or tramway subject to the legislative authority of the
Legislature, and includes any undertaking of a company subject to that
authority which is by any certificate of the minister designated as a
railway.




(2)

The minister may by certificate declare that the provisions of this
Act as may be designated in the certificate apply to any company.




(3)

On the taking effect of and to the extent set out in the certificate,
this Act applies to the company named in the certificate, and to its
railway.




(4)

[Repealed 2004-51-37.]




(5)

[Repealed 2003-39-96.]




(6)

Subject to the

Railway Safety Act

, a company must not operate a railway in British Columbia except with
the consent in writing of the minister and subject to conditions the
minister may impose.






Administration




4


This Act must be administered by the minister, subject to the control
and direction of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.






Approval and publication of minister's certificate




5


A certificate signed by the minister under section 32, 205 or 225




(a)

must be sent to the Lieutenant Governor in Council for approval,




(b)

does not come into force until approved by order in council, and




(c)

must be published promptly in the Gazette by the company to which it
is issued.




Part 2





Repealed




6-11


[Repealed 2004-51-38.]






Repealed




12-13


[Repealed 2003-45-10.]




Part 3 — Location of Line





Map




14

(1)


A company must




(a)

prepare and submit to the minister, in duplicate, a map showing




(i)

the general location of the proposed line of the railway,




(ii)

the termini and the principal towns and places, giving their names,
through which the railway is to pass,




(iii)

the railways, navigable streams and tidewaters, if any, to be crossed
by the railway and those within a radius of 30 miles of the proposed
railway, and




(iv)

generally the physical features of the country through which the
railway is to be constructed, and




(b)

give further or other information the minister may require.




(2)

The map must be prepared on a scale of not less than 6 miles to the
inch, or other appropriate scale as the minister may determine, and
must be accompanied by an application, in duplicate, requesting the
minister's approval of the general location as shown on the map.




(3)

Before approving the map and location, the minister may make changes
and alterations in it the minister considers expedient, and on being
satisfied with it must signify the minister's approval on the map and
the duplicate.




(4)

In approving the map and location, the minister may approve the whole
or any portion, and if the minister approves only a portion of it must
signify the approval on the map and the duplicate accordingly.




(5)

When the map is approved and the application is filed in the ministry,
the minister must signify the minister's approval of the projected
line of railway by certificate.




(6)

This section applies to the main line and to every branch line and
extension of the railway of a company.






Plan, profile and book of reference




15

(1)


On compliance with section 14, a company must make a plan, profile and
book of reference of the railway.




(2)

The plan must show the following:




(a)

the right of way, with lengths of sections in miles;




(b)

the names of terminal points;




(c)

the station grounds;




(d)

the property lines and owners' names;




(e)

the area length and width of land proposed to be taken, in figures,
stating every change of width;




(f)

the bearings;




(g)

all open drains, watercourses, highways and railways proposed to be
crossed or affected.




(3)

The profile must show the grades, curves, highway and railway
crossings, open drains and watercourses.




(4)

The book of reference must describe the portion of land proposed to be
taken in each lot to be traversed, giving numbers of the lots and the
area, length and width of the portion of each lot proposed to be
taken, and names of owners and occupiers so far as they can be
ascertained.




(5)

The minister may require any additional information for the proper
understanding of the plan and profile.




(6)

The plan, profile and book of reference may be of a section or
sections of the railway.






Approval by minister




16

(1)


The plan, profile and book of reference must be submitted to the
minister, who, if satisfied with them, may approve them.




(2)

The minister by the approval is deemed to have approved merely the
location of the railway and the grades and curves of it, as shown in
the plan, profile and book of reference, but not to have relieved the
company from otherwise complying with this Act.




(3)

Before approving any plan, profile or book of reference of a section
of a railway, the minister may require a company to submit the plan,
profile and book of reference of the whole or of any portion of the
remainder of the railway, or further or other information the minister
considers expedient.






Deposit in ministry




17

(1)


The plan, profile and book of reference must be deposited in the
ministry, and each plan must be numbered consecutively in order of
deposit.




(2)

A company must also deposit copies of them or of parts of them that
relate to each district or county through which the railway is to
pass, certified, in the proper land title office for each district or
county respectively.






Errors




18


The railway may be made, carried or placed across or on the land of
any person on the located line, although




(a)

through error or any other cause the name of the person has not been
entered in the book of reference, or




(b)

some other person is erroneously mentioned as the owner of or entitled
to convey or as interested in the land.






Corrections




19

(1)


If any omission, misstatement or error is made in any plan, profile or
book of reference so registered, the company may apply to the minister
for a certificate to correct it.




(2)

The minister may, in the minister's discretion, require notice to be
given to interested parties and, if it appears to the minister that
the omission, misstatement or error arose from mistake, may grant a
certificate setting out the nature of the omission, misstatement or
error and the correction allowed.




(3)

On the deposit of the certificate in the ministry and of copies of it,
certified by the secretary of the company, in the land title offices
for the districts respectively in which the land is located, the plan,
profile or book of reference must be taken to be corrected in
accordance with the certificate, and the company may then, subject to
this Act, construct the railway in accordance with the correction.






Duties of registrar of titles




20

(1)


A registrar of titles must




(a)

receive and preserve in the registrar's office all plans, profiles,
books of reference, certified copies of them and other documents
required by this Act to be deposited in the office, and




(b)

endorse on them the day, hour and minute when they were deposited.




(2)

All persons may resort to the plans, profiles, books of reference,
copies and documents deposited, and may make extracts from them and
copies of them as occasion requires, paying the registrar of titles
the fees payable under the

Land Title Act

.




(3)

At the request of any person, a registrar of titles must certify
copies of any plan, profile, book of reference or document deposited
in the registrar's office, or of portions of them as may be required,
on being paid the fees payable under the

Land Title Act

.




(4)

The certificate of the registrar of titles must




(a)

set out that the plan, profile or document, a copy of which or of any
portion of which is certified by the registrar, is deposited in the
registrar's office,




(b)

state the time when it was deposited, and




(c)

state that the registrar has carefully compared the copy certified
with the document on file, and that it is a true copy of the original.






Deposit of plan of completed railway




21

(1)


A plan and profile of the completed railway or of any part of it which
is completed and in operation, and of the land taken or obtained for
the use of it, must, within 6 months after completion of the
undertaking or within 6 months after beginning to operate the
completed part, as the case may be, or within an extended or renewed
period as the minister at any time directs, be made and deposited in
the ministry.




(2)

Plans and profiles of the parts of the railway so completed or in
operation located in different districts and counties, prepared on the
scale, in the manner and form, and signed or authenticated in the
manner the minister may, by regulation of general application or by
order dealing with a particular case, approve or require, must be
deposited in the land title offices for the districts and counties in
which the parts are located.






Preparation of plans, profiles or books of reference




22

(1)


All plans and profiles required by law to be deposited by a company in
the ministry must be drawn to the scale, with the detail, on the
materials and must be of the character as the minister may, by
regulation of general application or by order dealing with a
particular case, require.




(2)

All the plans and profiles must be certified and signed by the
president, vice president or general manager of the company, and also
by the engineer of the company.




(3)

Any book of reference required to be deposited must be prepared to the
satisfaction of the minister.




(4)

Unless and until the plan, profile and book of reference is made
satisfactory to the minister, the minister may refuse to approve it or
to allow it to be deposited in the ministry.






Further plans




23


In addition to the plans, profiles and books of reference, a company
must, with all reasonable expedition, prepare and deposit in the
ministry any other or further plans, profiles or books of reference of
any portion of the railway, or of any siding, station or works of it,
that the minister may order or require.






Deviations, changes or alterations




24

(1)


If any deviation, change or alteration is required by a company to be
made in the railway or any portion of it as already constructed, or as
merely located and approved, a plan, profile and book of reference of
the portion of the railway proposed to be changed, showing the
deviation, change or alteration proposed to be made, must, in similar
manner as provided with respect to the original plan, profile and book
of reference, be submitted for the approval of the minister, and may
be approved by the minister.




(2)

The plan, profile and book of reference of the portion of the railway
proposed to be changed must, when approved, be deposited and dealt
with as provided with respect to the original plan, profile and book
of reference.




(3)

The company may then make the deviation, change or alteration, and all
the provisions of this Act apply to the portion of the line of railway
changed or proposed to be changed in the same manner as they apply to
the original line.




(4)

The minister may, by regulation of general application or by order
dealing with a particular case, exempt a company from submitting the
plan, profile and book of reference, as provided in this section, if
the deviation, change or alteration is made or to be made for the
purpose of lessening a curve, reducing a gradient or otherwise
benefiting the railway, or for any other purpose of public advantage,
as may seem to the minister expedient, if the deviation, change or
alteration does not require the acquisition or leasing of additional
property.






Commencement of works




25

(1)


A company must not begin the construction of the railway or any
section or portion of it until




(a)

the plan, profile and book of reference has been submitted to and
approved by the minister as provided,




(b)

the plan, profile and book of reference approved has been deposited in
the ministry, and




(c)

certified copies of the plan, profile and book of reference have been
deposited in the land title offices in accordance with this Act.




(2)

A company must not make any change, alteration or deviation in the
railway or any portion of it until section 24 has been fully
complied with.






Mines to be protected




26


Unless it has the approval of the minister, a company must not locate
the line of its proposed railway, or construct the line or any portion
of it, so as to obstruct or interfere with, or injuriously affect the
working of or the access or adit to, any mine then open, or for the
opening of which preparations are at the time of the location being
lawfully and openly made.






Company not entitled to minerals




27

(1)


A company is not, unless they have been expressly purchased, entitled
to any mines, ores, metals, coal, slate, mineral oils or other
minerals in or under any land purchased by it, or taken by it under
any compulsory powers given it by this Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not except from a company's entitlement those
parts of the mines, ores, metals, coal, slate, mineral oils or other
minerals that are necessary to be dug, carried away or used in the
construction of the works.




(3)

Unless acquired under subsection (2), expressly purchased or expressly
named and conveyed, all mines and minerals are deemed to be excepted
from the conveyance of the land.






Repealed




28


[Repealed 2004-8-27.]




Part 4





Repealed




29


[Repealed 2004-51-38.]




Part 5 — General Powers





General powers of company




30


Subject only to the obtaining of permission or approval from the
minister wherever required by this Act, a company may do one or more
of the following:




(a)

enter into and on Crown land without previous licence to do so, or
into and on the land of any person, lying in the intended route or
line of the railway, and make surveys, examinations or other necessary
arrangements on the land for fixing the site of the railway, and set
out and ascertain the parts of the land necessary and proper for the
railway;




(b) and (c)

[Repealed 2004-51-39.]




(d)

make, carry or place the railway across or on the land of the
government or of any person on the located line of the railway;




(e)

cross any railway or join the railway with any other railway at any
point on its route, and on the land of the other railway, with the
necessary conveniences for the purposes of the connection;




(f) to (i)

[Repealed 2004-51-39.]




(j)

fell or remove any trees which stand within 100 feet from either side
of the right of way of the railway, or which are liable to fall across
any railway track;




(k)

make or construct in, on, across, under or over any railway, tramway,
river, stream, watercourse, canal or highway which the railway of the
company intersects or touches, temporary or permanent inclined planes,
tunnels, embankments, aqueducts, bridges, roads, ways, passages,
conduits, drains, piers, arches, cuttings and fences;




(l)

divert or alter, temporarily or permanently, the course of a river,
stream, watercourse or highway, or raise or sink its level, in order
the more conveniently to carry the same over, under or by the side of
the railway;




(m)

make drains or conduits into, through or under any land adjoining the
railway for the purpose of conveying water to or from the railway;




(n)

divert or alter the position of any water pipe, gas pipe, sewer or
drain, or any telegraph, telephone or electric lines, wires or poles.




(o) to (q)

[Repealed 2004-51-39.]






Repealed




31


[Repealed 2004-51-39.]




Part 6 — Acquisition of Crown Land





Power to occupy Crown land for railway purposes




32

(1)


A railway company must not take possession of, use or occupy any land
belonging to the government, to any further or other extent than the
making of location surveys, without the consent of the minister as
evidenced by a certificate in duplicate.




(2)

With the consent of the minister as evidenced by a certificate in
duplicate a company may take and appropriate for the use of its
undertaking so much of the unoccupied and unreserved land of the
government lying on the route of the railway, or within the scope of
the undertaking, as have not been granted or sold, and as may be
wanted to be acquired for the undertaking, and also so much of the
public beach or foreshore or of the land covered with the waters of
any lake, river, stream or canal, or of their respective beds, as is
necessary or wanted to be acquired for making and completing and
maintaining the undertaking of the company.






Compensation to be paid to the government




33

(1)


After obtaining a certificate of consent under section 32, a
company must promptly apply to the appropriate minister to set the
price and compensation to be paid by the company to the government for
the taking of the respective land and properties described in the
certificate of consent.




(2)

The minister referred to in subsection (1), in that minister's
absolute discretion may set the price and compensation, and the price
and compensation set must be paid by the company to that minister as a
condition precedent to the grant to and occupation by the company of
the land and properties.




(3)

On payment of the price and compensation the land and properties must
be granted to the company, its successors and assigns, by grant in the
form approved by the minister referred to in subsection (1).




(4)

A company may appeal to the court in respect of the amount set to be
paid for compensation.




(5)

The

Expropriation Act

applies to the determination of the amount of compensation.




Part 7 — Acquisition of Land by Expropriation and Purchase





Limitations as to extent of land taken




34

(1)


For a right of way, the land that may be taken without the consent of
the owner must not exceed 100 feet in breadth, except in places
where the rail level is or is proposed to be more than 5 feet
above or below the surface of the adjacent land, when additional width
may be taken sufficient to accommodate the slope and side ditches.




(2)

For stations, depots and yards, with the freight sheds, warehouses,
wharves, elevators and other structures for the accommodation of
traffic incidental to them, the land that may be taken without the
consent of the owner must not exceed one mile in length by 500 feet in
breadth, including the width of the right of way.






Application to take more ample space




35

(1)


If, at any point on the railway, a company requires more ample space
than it possesses or may take under section 34




(a)

for the convenient accommodation of the public,




(b)

for the traffic on its railway,




(c)

for protection against snow drifts,




(d)

for the diversion of a highway,




(e)

for the substitution of one highway for another,




(f)

for the construction or taking of any works or measures ordered by the
minister under this Act, or




(g)

to secure the efficient construction, maintenance or operation of the
railway,


it may apply to the minister for authority to take the space for those
purposes, without the consent of the owner.




(2)

A company must




(a)

give 10 days' notice of the application to the owner of the land, and




(b)

furnish to the minister, with the application, copies of the notices,
with affidavits of their service.




(3)

A company must also furnish to the minister, in duplicate, with the
application




(a)

a plan, profile and book of reference of the portion of the railway
affected, showing the additional land required, and certified as
provided in this Act with respect to plans and profiles required to be
deposited by the company with the minister, and




(b)

an application, in writing, for authority to take the land, signed and
sworn to by the president, vice president, general manager or engineer
of the company referring to the plan, profile and book of reference,
specifying definitely and in detail the purposes for which each
portion of the land is required, and the necessity for the same, and
showing that no other land suitable for the purposes can be acquired
at the place on reasonable terms and with less injury to private
rights.




(4)

After the time stated in the notices, and the hearing of interested
parties who appear, the minister may, in the minister's discretion,
and on the terms and conditions the minister considers expedient,
authorize by certificate the taking for the stated purposes of all or
any portion of the land applied for.




(5)

All provisions of this Act applicable to the taking of land without
the consent of the owner for the right of way or main line of the
railway apply to the land authorized under this section to be taken.






Use of adjoining land




36

(1)


A company, either for the purpose of constructing or repairing its
railway, or for the purpose of carrying out the requirements of the
minister, or in the exercise of the powers conferred on it by the
minister, may




(a)

enter on any land which is not more than 600 feet distant from the
centre of the located line of the railway, and




(b)

occupy the land as long as is necessary for those purposes.




(2)

All the provisions of law at any time applicable to the taking of land
by the company, and its valuation and the compensation for it, apply
to the case of any land so required.




(3)

Unless the consent of the owner is obtained, before entering on any
land for the purposes under subsection (1), the company must pay into
the court at the registry of the court nearest to the land affected




(a)

the sum which, after 2 clear days' notice to the owner of the land or
to the person empowered to convey it or interested in it, is set by
the court, and




(b)

interest for 6 months on the sum set.




(4)

The deposit must be retained to answer any compensation which may be
awarded the person entitled to it.




(5)

By order of the court, money on deposit may be paid out to the person
so far as it goes in satisfaction of the award, and the surplus, if
any, remaining after that must, by order of the court, be repaid to
the company.




(6)

Any deficiency in the deposit to satisfy the award must be promptly
paid by the company to the person entitled to compensation under the
award.






Obtaining materials for construction or operation




37

(1)


If




(a)

any stone, gravel, earth, sand, water or other material is required
for the construction, maintenance or operation of the railway or any
part of it or the materials or water required are located or have been
brought to a place at a distance from the line of railway, and




(b)

the company wants to lay down the necessary tracks, spurs or branch
lines, water pipes or conduits, over or through any land intervening
between the railway and the land on which the materials or water are
located or to which they have been brought,


the company may, if it cannot agree with the owner of the land for the
purchase of it, cause a British Columbia land surveyor or an engineer
to make a plan and description of the property or right of way, and
must serve on each of the owners and occupiers of the land affected a
copy of the plan and description, or of so much of it as relates to
the land owned or occupied by them respectively, duly certified by the
surveyor or engineer, and must file a copy of the plan and description
in the ministry and apply for the approval of it by the minister.




(2)

The minister may, by certificate, approve all or part of the plan and
description, and then, and to the extent to which the approval of the
minister is obtained, the company may exercise, in respect of the land
shown on the plan and mentioned in the description, all the powers
conferred by this Act, and the powers may be used to obtain the
material or water required and the right of way to the material or
water irrespective of the distance of it from the railway of the
company.




(3)

The company may, at its discretion, acquire the land from which the
materials or water are taken, or on which the right of way to it is
located, for a term of years or permanently.




(4)

The notice of arbitration, if arbitration is resorted to, must state
the extent of the privilege and title required.




(5)

The tracks, spurs or branch lines constructed or laid by the company
under this section must not be used for any purpose other than
mentioned in this section, except by approval of the minister, and
subject to terms and conditions the minister sees fit to impose.






Purchase of more land than required




38

(1)


If a company can purchase a larger quantity of land from any
particular owner at a more reasonable price, on the average, or on
terms more advantageous than those on which it could obtain the
portion of land which it may take from the owner without the owner's
consent, it may purchase the larger quantity.




(2)

A company may sell and dispose of any part of the land so purchased
which may be unnecessary for its undertaking.






Erection of snow fences




39

(1)


On and after November 1 in each year, a company may enter any Crown
land, or land of any person, lying along the route or line of the
railway, and erect and maintain snow fences on it, subject to the
payment of land damages, if any are actually suffered, as are after
that established, in the manner provided by law with respect to the
railway.




(2)

Every snow fence erected must be removed on or before April 1 in
the next following year.






Power of representative persons to convey




40

(1)


All tenants for life, guardians, committees, personal representatives,
trustees and all other persons, as well for and on behalf of
themselves, their heirs and successors, as on behalf of those whom
they represent, whether infants, issue unborn, mentally disordered
persons or other persons, seised, possessed of or interested in any
land, may contract and sell and convey to a company all or any part of
it.




(2)

A company is not affected by a notice of and is not bound by any
trust, and must not be impeded in the securing of title by any trust.






Order of court




41

(1)


When any of the persons or classes of persons mentioned in
section 40 have no right in law to sell or convey the rights of
property in the land, they or the company, on application to the court
by petition in a summary manner, may obtain from the court, after
notice to any persons interested as the court may direct, the right to
sell the land.




(2)

The court must make the orders necessary to secure the investment of
the purchase money in the manner the court considers necessary or
expedient for the protection of the interests of any beneficiary.






Limitation of powers to convey




42


The powers conferred by sections 40 and 41 on




(a)

ecclesiastical and other corporations,




(b)

trustees of land for church or school purposes,




(c)

executors appointed by wills under which they are not invested with
any power over the real property of the will-maker, and




(d)

administrators of persons dying intestate, but at their death seised
of real property,


extend only to and must only be exercised with respect to land
actually required for the use and occupation of a company.






Conveyance to vest fee simple




43

(1)


Any contract, agreement, sale, conveyance or assurance made under
section 40, 41 or 42 is valid and effectual in law to
all intents and purposes.




(2)

Any conveyance so authorized vests in a company receiving it the fee
simple in the land described in it, free from all trusts, restrictions
and limitations.




(3)

A person so contracting, selling and conveying is relieved from
liability for what the person does under this Act.






Application of purchase money




44


A company is not responsible for the disposition of any purchase money
for land taken by the company for its purposes if paid to the owner of
the land or into court for the owner's benefit.






Premature contracts




45

(1)


Any contract or agreement made by any person authorized by this Act to
convey land, either before the deposit of the plan, profile and book
of reference, or before the setting out and ascertaining of the land
required for the railway, is, if registered under the

Land Title Act

, binding at the price agreed on, if the land is afterwards so set out
and ascertained within one year from the date of the contract or
agreement, and although the land has in the meantime become the
property of a third person after the registration or record.




(2)

Possession of the land may be taken and the agreement and price may be
dealt with as if the price had been set by an award of arbitrators as
provided in this Act, and the agreement has the force of and is in the
place of an award.






Rental if parties cannot sell




46

(1)


If in any case not provided for in sections 14 to 45 any person
interested in any land so set out and ascertained is not authorized by
law to sell or alienate that land, the person may agree on a fixed
annual rent as an equivalent, and not on a principal sum, to be paid.




(2)

If the amount of the rent is not set by agreement, it must be set and
all proceedings must be regulated in the manner prescribed by this Act
for the taking of land.






Rent chargeable to working expenses




47


The annual rent, and every other annual rent agreed on or ascertained,
to be paid for the purchase of any land, or for any part of the
purchase money of any land, which the vendor agrees to leave unpaid,
must, on the deed creating the charge and liability being registered
in the land title office, be chargeable as part of the working
expenditure of the railway.






Compensation or damages may be agreed on




48

(1)


After the expiration of 10 days from the deposit of the plan, profile
and book of reference in the proper land title office, and after
notice of it has been given in at least one newspaper, if any is
published, in each of the districts and counties through which the
railway is intended to pass, a company may apply to the owners of
land, or to persons empowered to convey land or interested in land
which may be taken, or which suffers damage from the taking of
materials or the exercise of any of the powers granted for the
railway, to make an agreement that seems expedient to both parties
about the land or the compensation to be paid for it, or for the
damages, or as to the mode in which the compensation is to be
ascertained.




(2)

If the parties fail to agree, all questions that arise between them
must be settled as provided in this Act.






General notice




49

(1)


The deposit of a plan, profile and book of reference, and the notice
of the deposit, is deemed to be a general notice to all parties of the
land which will be required for the railway and works.




(2)

The date of the deposit is the date with reference to which
compensation or damages must be ascertained, but if the company does
not actually acquire title to the land within one year from the date
of the deposit, then the date of the acquisition is the date with
reference to which the compensation or damages must be ascertained.






Notice to be served




50


The notice served on the owners of land, or persons empowered to
convey land or interested in land, must contain




(a)

a description of the land to be taken, or of the powers intended to be
exercised with regard to any land described in it, and




(b)

a declaration of readiness to pay a certain sum or rent as
compensation for the land or for damages.






Certificate of surveyor




51


The notice must be accompanied by the affidavit of a British Columbia
land surveyor, who is a disinterested person, stating the following:




(a)

that the land, if the notice relates to the taking of land, is
required for the railway or is within the limit of deviation allowed
by this Act;




(b)

that the surveyor knows the land or the amount of damage likely to
arise from the exercise of the powers;




(c)

that the sum offered is, in the surveyor's opinion, a fair
compensation for the land and the damages likely to arise.






Service by publication




52

(1)


If any owner or party in interest is absent from the district or
county in which the land lies, or is unknown, an application for
service by advertisement may be made to the court.




(2)

The application must be accompanied by the affidavit required by
section 51, and by an affidavit of some officer of the company,
that the owner or party referred to in subsection (1) is absent,
or that after diligent inquiry the person on whom the notice ought to
be served cannot be ascertained.




(3)

The court may order service by advertisement in the manner specified
in the order.




(4)

Compliance with the terms of the order has the effect of personal
service.






Arbitration where sum offered not accepted




53

(1)


If, within 10 days after the service of the notice or within one month
after the first publication of it, the owner or party referred to in
section 50 does not give notice to a company that the owner or party
accepts the sum offered by it, the amount of compensation must be
determined by the court.




(2)

The

Expropriation Act

applies to the determination of the amount of compensation.






Payment of compensation into court




54

(1)


A company may pay an amount for compensation into court, with the
interest on it for 6 months, and may deliver to the registrar of
the court an authentic copy of a conveyance, or of an award or
agreement if there is no conveyance, and register the conveyance,
award or agreement in the proper land title office in any of the
following circumstances:




(a)

if the company has reason to fear any claim, mortgage or encumbrance;




(b)

if any person to whom the compensation or annual rent or any part of
it is payable refuses to execute a proper conveyance and guarantee;




(c)

if the person entitled to claim the compensation or annual rent cannot
be found, or is unknown to the company;




(d)

if for any other reason the company considers it advisable.




(2)

The conveyance, or the award or agreement, is then deemed to be the
title of the company to the land mentioned in it.






Publication of notice




55

(1)


Notice of the payment and delivery, in the form and for the time the
court appoints, must be published in the Gazette and in a newspaper
published in the county in which the land is located, or, if there is
no newspaper published in the county, then in a newspaper published in
the nearest county to it in which a newspaper is published.




(2)

The notice must




(a)

state that the conveyance, agreement or award constituting the title
of the company is obtained under this Act, and




(b)

call on all persons claiming an interest in or entitled to the land or
any part of it to file their claims to the compensation or any part of
it.






Compensation in place of land




56

(1)


The compensation for any land which may be taken without the consent
of the owner stands in the stead of that land.




(2)

As against a company, any claim to or encumbrance on the land or any
portion of it must be converted into a claim to the compensation, or
to that proportion of it.




(3)

A company is responsible when it has paid the compensation or any part
of it to a person not entitled to receive it, saving always its
recourse against that person.






Effect of adjudication




57

(1)


All the claims filed must be received and adjudicated on by the court,
and the adjudication on them forever bars all claims to the land or
any part of it, including any dower, mortgage or encumbrance.




(2)

The court must make the appropriate order for the distribution,
payment or investment of the compensation and for the security of the
rights of all persons interested.




(3)

If the order for distribution, payment or investment is obtained
within 6 months from the payment of the compensation into court, the
court must direct a proportionate part of the interest to be returned
to the company.




(4)

If from any error, fault or neglect of the company the order is not
obtained until after 6 months have expired, the court must order the
company to pay into court, as part of the compensation, the interest
for the further period as is right.




(5)

The court may order that all or a part of the costs of the
proceedings, including the proper allowances to witnesses, be paid by
the company or by any other person.






Right to take possession




58


On payment or legal tender of the compensation or annual rent awarded
or agreed on to the person entitled to receive it, or on the payment
into court of the amount of the compensation, in the manner mentioned,
the award or agreement vests in a company the power to promptly take
possession of the land, or to exercise the right, or to do the thing
for which the compensation or annual rent has been awarded or agreed
on.






Warrant to put down resistance




59

(1)


If any resistance or forcible opposition is made by any person to the
exercise by a company of that power, the court must, on proof of the
award or agreement, issue a warrant to the sheriff of the district or
county, or to a bailiff, to put down the resistance or opposition and
put the company in possession.




(2)

The sheriff or bailiff




(a)

may employ persons to assist in the execution of the warrant, and




(b)

must put down the resistance or opposition and put the company in
possession.




(3)

A warrant issued under this section must not be attacked or
invalidated only for want of notice or form, or for any technical
objection or objection to the jurisdiction.






Warrant for immediate possession




60


A warrant must also be granted by the court without the award or
agreement, on affidavit to its satisfaction that the immediate
possession of the land or of the power to do the things mentioned in
the notice is necessary to carry on some part of the railway with
which the company is ready to proceed without delay.






Procedure on application for warrant without award




61


The court must not grant a warrant under section 60 unless




(a)

10 days' notice of the time and place at which the application for the
warrant is to be made has been served on the owner of the land, or the
person empowered to convey the land or interested in the land sought
to be taken, or which may suffer damage from the taking of materials
sought to be taken, or the exercise of the powers sought to be
exercised, or the doing of the things sought to be done by the
company, and




(b)

the company gives security to the court's satisfaction by payment into
court of a sum in the court's estimation sufficient to cover the
probable compensation and costs of the arbitration, and not less than
50% above the amount mentioned in the notice served on the party
stating the compensation offered.






Costs and repayment of deposit




62

(1)


The costs of the application and hearing before the court must be
borne by the company unless the compensation awarded is not more than
the company had offered to pay.




(2)

No part of the deposit or of any interest on it may be repaid, or paid
to the company, or paid to the owner or party, without an order from
the court, which the court may make in accordance with the terms of
the award.






Continued proceedings




63


Any proceeding under Parts 1, 3 and 5 to 7 of this Act relating to the
ascertainment of payment of compensation, or the delivery of
possession of land taken, or the putting down of resistance to the
exercise of powers must be continued in the court in which the
proceeding is commenced.




Part 8





Repealed




64


[Repealed 2003-45-11.]




Part 9





Repealed




65-68


[Repealed 2004-51-41.]






Repealed




69


[Repealed 2003-45-15.]






Repealed




70-83.1


[Repealed 2004-51-41.]






Repealed




84-120


[Repealed 2004-51-41.]




Part 10





Repealed




121


[Repealed 2004-51-41.]




Part 11





Repealed




122


[Repealed 2004-51-41.]






Repealed




123-134


[Repealed 2003-45-18.]




Part 12 — Running Powers





Use of another company's property




135

(1)


A company may




(a)

take possession of, use or occupy any land belonging to another
company,




(b)

use and enjoy the whole or any portion of the right of way, tracks,
terminals, stations or station grounds of another company, and




(c)

have and exercise full right and power to run and operate its trains
over and on any portion or portions of the railway of another company.




(2)

A company may only exercise the powers listed in subsection (1) with
the prior approval of the minister and subject to any order and
direction which the minister may make in regard to the exercise,
enjoyment or restriction of those powers.




(3)

The approval may be given by certificate of the minister on
application and notice, and, after a hearing, the minister may make
the order, give the directions and impose the conditions or duties on
either party as to the minister may appear just or desirable, having
regard to the public and all proper interests.




(4)

If the parties fail to agree as to compensation, the minister may, in
a certificate or by order, set the amount of compensation to be paid
in respect of the powers and privileges granted.




Part 13 — Branch Lines and Extensions





Regulation of branch lines and extensions




136


All the provisions of this Act with respect to the construction of the
railway apply to, include and must be complied with in respect of the
intended construction and in respect of the construction, maintenance
and operation of branch lines and of extensions of the railway.




Part 14 — Railway Crossings and Junctions





Repealed




137


[Repealed 2004-8-27.]






Connection of intersecting tracks




138

(1)


If the lines or tracks of the railway of one company are intersected
or crossed by those of another, or on any application for permission
to make an intersection or crossing, or in any case in which the
tracks or lines of 2 different railways run through or into the same
city, town or village, the minister may, on the application of one of
the companies, or of a municipal corporation or other public body, or
of any person or persons interested, by certificate, order that the
lines or tracks of the railways must be so connected at or near the
point of intersection or crossing or in or near the city, town or
village as to allow the safe and convenient transfer or passing of
engines, cars and trains from the tracks or lines of one railway to
those of another, and that the connection must be maintained and used.




(2)

In and by the certificate providing for the connection, or
subsequently, the minister may determine by what company or companies,
or other corporations or persons, and in what proportions, the cost of
making and maintaining the connections are to be borne, and on what
terms traffic is to be transferred by them from the lines of one
railway to those of another.






Repealed




139-141


[Repealed 2004-8-27.]




Part 15





Repealed




142-149


[Repealed 2004-8-28.]




Part 16





Repealed




150-151


[Repealed 2003-45-19.]






Repealed




152


[Repealed 2004-8-28.]




Part 17 to 20





Repealed




153-160


[Repealed 2004-8-28.]




Part 21 — Stations





Stations




161

(1)


Every station of the company must be erected, operated and maintained
with good and sufficient accommodation and facilities for traffic.




(2)

[Repealed 2003-45-20.]




Part 22





Repealed




162


[Repealed 2003-45-21.]




Part 23





Repealed




163-166


[Repealed 2004-8-28.]




Part 24 — Operation





Repealed




167-170


[Repealed 2004-8-29.]






Repealed




171-172


[Repealed 2003-45-22.]






Repealed




173-179


[Repealed 2004-8-29.]






Highway obstruction




180


If a railway crosses a highway at rail level, the company must not,
and its officers, agents or employees must not, wilfully permit an
engine, tender or car to stand on any part of the highway for a longer
period than 5 minutes at one time, or, when shunting, to obstruct
public traffic for a longer period than 5 minutes at one time, or, in
the opinion of the minister, unnecessarily interfere with it.






Repealed




181-182


[Repealed 2003-45-22.]






No claim for injuries in certain cases




183


A person injured while on the platform of a car or on a baggage car or
freight car in violation of the printed regulations posted at the time
has no claim in respect of the injury if room inside the passenger
cars sufficient for the proper accommodation of passengers was
available at the time.






Repealed




184


[Repealed 2003-45-22.]






Obligations and liabilities of logging and mining railways




185

(1)


A conductor or other person in charge of a train owned or operated by
a company on any railway which is operated exclusively as a logging
railway or in connection with mines is not under any obligation to any
person other than the company operating the train to receive or carry
any passenger, baggage or goods in or on the train.




(2)

A conductor or other person in charge of a train described in
subsection (1), and the company owning or operating the train, is not
liable in damages or in any other way for refusal to receive or carry
the passenger, baggage or goods.




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2004-8-29.]




(5)

If it is shown to the satisfaction of the minister that the use of a
railway described in subsection (1) for the carriage of passengers and
goods is necessary or desirable in order to facilitate development of
the natural resources of British Columbia, the minister may grant a
permit in writing to the company owning or operating the railway,
authorizing the company to receive and carry passengers and goods
under this subsection and subsections (6) to (9).




(6)

A company to which a permit is granted under subsection (5) may enter
into a contract with any person for the carriage on its railway of
that person as a passenger, or with any person for the carriage on its
railway of goods owned by the person, if




(a)

cars and equipment suitable for the purpose are used, and




(b)

the cars and equipment have first been inspected by the inspecting
engineer of the ministry and approved by the minister.




(7)

A contract entered into for the purposes of subsection (6) may




(a)

provide for the charging and collection of tolls for the carriage of
the passenger or goods,




(b)

limit the liability of the company, its servants or agents, or exempt
the company, its servants or agents, from any liability otherwise
existing under this or any other Act or at common law, for any damage
arising out of the carriage of the passenger or goods under the
contract, and




(c)

contain further reasonable terms and conditions the minister may
approve.




(8)

No contract has effect or is deemed sufficient for the purposes of
subsections (5) to (9) unless it is




(a)

signed by the person who is carried as a passenger, or by the person
whose goods are carried, or by the agent in that behalf of the owner
of the goods, and




(b)

written or printed in a form and manner approved by the minister as
suitable for bringing its material terms to the attention of the
person signing it.




(9)

The minister may, at any time by notice in writing to the company,
revoke any permit granted to the company under subsection (5).




(10)

Sections 186, 187, 198, 204, 205 and 225 do not apply to a railway
that carries passengers or goods under a permit granted under
subsection (5).




Part 25 — Accommodation for Traffic





Accommodation for traffic




186

(1)


A company must, according to its powers, do the following:




(a)

furnish, at the place of starting, and at the junction of the railway
with other railways, and at all stopping places established for the
purpose, adequate and suitable accommodation for the receiving and
loading of all traffic offered for carriage on the railway;




(b)

furnish adequate and suitable accommodation for the carrying,
unloading and delivery of the traffic;




(c)

without delay, and with care and diligence, receive, carry and deliver
the traffic;




(d)

furnish and use all proper appliances, accommodation and means
necessary for receiving, loading, carrying, unloading and delivering
the traffic.




(2)

The accommodation must include reasonable facilities for the junction
of private siding or private branch railways with any railway
belonging to or worked by the company, and reasonable facilities for
receiving, forwarding and delivering traffic on and from those sidings
or private branch railways, together with the placing of cars and
moving them on and from the private sidings and private branch
railways.




(3)

If in any case the accommodation is not, in the opinion of the
minister, furnished by the company, the minister may, by certificate,




(a)

order the company to furnish the accommodation within the time or
during the period the minister considers expedient, having regard to
all proper interests, or




(b)

prohibit or limit the use, either generally or on any specified
railway or part of it, of any engines, locomotives, cars, rolling
stock, apparatus, machinery or devices, or any class or kind of them,
not equipped as required by this Act or by any certificate of the
minister.




(4)

The traffic must be taken, carried to and from and delivered at the
places mentioned on the payment of the toll lawfully payable.




(5)

If a company's railway crosses or joins or approaches, in the opinion
of the minister, sufficiently near to any other railway on which
passengers or mails are transported, the minister may, by the
certificate, order the company




(a)

to regulate the running of its trains carrying passengers or mails,
and the places and times of stopping them, so as to provide reasonable
opportunity for the transfer of passengers and mails between its
railway and the other railway, and




(b)

to furnish reasonable facilities and accommodation for that purpose.




(6)

For the purposes of this section, the minister may, by certificate,
order that




(a)

specific works be constructed or carried out,




(b)

property be acquired,




(c)

[Repealed 2003-45-24.]




(d)

cars, motive power or other equipment be allotted, distributed, used
or moved as specified by the minister, or




(e)

any specified steps, systems or methods be taken or followed by any
particular company or companies, or by railway companies generally.




(7)

A person aggrieved by any neglect or refusal of the company to comply
with the requirements of this section has a right of action for it
against the company, from which action the company is not relieved by
any notice.




(8)

The minister may, by certificate, make regulations, applying generally
or to any particular railway or any portion of it, imposing charges
for default or delay by any company in furnishing accommodation,
appliances or means as mentioned, or in receiving, loading, carrying,
unloading or delivering traffic.




(9)

The minister may enforce payment of the charges by the company to any
person injuriously affected by the default or delay, and any amount
received by any person must be deducted from the damages recoverable
or recovered by the person for the default or delay.




(10)

The minister may, by certificate, determine what circumstances exempt
any company from payment of the charges.






Traffic over connecting lines




187

(1)


If a line of one railway joins or connects the line or lines of that
railway with another, the minister may, by certificate, on application
of one of the companies or of a municipal corporation or other public
body, order that the railway company that constructed the branch line
must provide all reasonable and proper facilities, by means of the
branch, for the interchange of freight and livestock traffic, and the
empty cars incidental to it, between the lines of that railway and
those of the railway with which that branch is so joined or connected,
in both directions, and also between the lines of the first mentioned
railway and those of other railways connecting with the lines of the
first mentioned railway, and all tracks and sidings used by the first
mentioned railway for the purpose of loading and unloading cars, and
owned or controlled by or connecting with the lines of the company
owning or controlling the first mentioned railway, and other tracks
and sidings the minister directs.




(2)

The minister may, by certificate, determine as questions of fact and
direct the price per car that must be charged by and paid to the
company owning or controlling the first mentioned railway for that
traffic.






Repealed




188-189


[Repealed 2004-8-29.]






Repealed




190-191


[Repealed 2003-45-25.]






Repealed




192-195


[Repealed 2004-8-29.]




Part 26 — Fires





Repealed




196


[Repealed 2004-8-29.]






Liability for and protection from fire




197

(1)


If damage is caused to any property by a fire started by any railway
locomotive, the company making use of the locomotive, whether guilty
of negligence or not, is liable for the damage, and may be sued for
the recovery of the amount of the damage in any court of competent
jurisdiction.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if it is shown that the company has used
modern and efficient appliances, and has not otherwise been guilty of
any negligence, the total amount of compensation recoverable from the
company under this section in respect of any one or more claims for
damage from a fire or fires started by the same locomotive and on the
same occasion must not exceed $5 000.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), if there is any insurance existing on the
property destroyed or damaged, the total amount of damages sustained
by any claimant in respect of the destruction or damage of the
property must, for the purposes of subsection (1), be reduced by the
amount accepted or recovered by or for the benefit of the claimant in
respect of that insurance.




(4)

No action lies against the company because of anything in any policy
of insurance or because of payment of any money under it.




(5)

The compensation, in case the total amount recovered for it is less
than the claims established, must be apportioned among the parties who
suffered the loss as the court may determine.




(6)

The company has an insurable interest in all property on or along its
route for which it may be held liable to compensate the owners for
loss or damage by fire caused by a railway locomotive, and may procure
insurance on it in its own behalf.




(7) and (8)

[Repealed 2004-8-29.]




Part 27 — Contracts Respecting Traffic





Contracts respecting traffic




198

(1)


A company must not tender to or make with any person or shipper any
contract which purports to throw on that person or shipper the
necessity or onus of proving as against the company negligence in the
event of loss or damage to any goods conveyed on the railway or any
part of the undertaking of the company, or which exempts the company
from liability in the event of theft or wilful injury to goods by any
of the employees of the company.




(2)

A company is liable for the loss of or damage to goods entrusted to
the company for conveyance, except that the company is not liable when
the loss or damage happens




(a)

without actual fault or privity of the company, or without the fault
or neglect of its agents, servants or employees,




(b)

due to fire or the dangers of navigation,




(c)

from any defect in or from the nature of the goods themselves, or




(d)

from armed robbery or other irresistible force.




(3)

A company is not liable for any total or partial loss of gold or
silver, diamonds, watches, jewels or precious stones, money or
valuable securities, including every document forming the title or
evidence of the title to any property of any kind, or articles of
great value not being ordinary merchandise, by reason of any robbery,
theft, removal or secreting of them, unless their true nature and
value has, at the time of delivery for conveyance, been declared by
the owner or shipper to the company or its agent or servant, and
entered in the bill of lading or otherwise in writing.




(4)

A company is liable for loss or injury to livestock or merchandise in
the receiving, forwarding or delivering of it occasioned by neglect or
default, despite any notice, condition or declaration in any way
limiting the liability.




(5)

Any notice referred to in subsection (4) is null and void.




(6)

Nothing in subsection (4) or (5) is to be construed to prevent the
minister authorizing the insertion in bills of lading of conditions
with respect to receiving, forwarding and delivering traffic as the
minister considers just and reasonable.




(7)

No greater damages may be recovered for a horse than $200, unless
declared by the shipper of higher value at the time of delivery for
carriage, when the company may demand a reasonable percentage on the
excess of value as compensation for increased risk and care.




(8)

If a higher value is declared under subsection (7),




(a)

the percentage or increased rate of charge is to be at a rate first
approved by the minister,




(b)

proof of value and of amount of injury lies on the person claiming
compensation, and




(c)

no special contract in any way respecting the receiving, forwarding
and delivering is binding on or affects any shipper or consignee
unless signed by that person or the person delivering the traffic.






Repealed




199


[Repealed 2004-51-42.]




Part 28





Repealed




200-203


[Repealed 2003-45-26.]




Part 29 — Traffic Facilities





Facilities for traffic




204

(1)


All companies must, according to their respective powers, provide to
all persons and companies all reasonable and proper facilities for the
receiving, forwarding and delivering of traffic on and from their
several railways, for the interchange of traffic between their
respective railways, and for the return of rolling stock.




(2)

The facilities to be provided include




(a)

the due and reasonable receiving, forwarding and delivering by the
company, at the request of any other company, of through traffic, and,
in case of goods shipped by carload, of the car with the goods shipped
in it, to and from the railway of the other company, at a through
rate, and




(b)

the due and reasonable receiving, forwarding and delivering by the
company, at the request of any person interested in through traffic,
of the traffic at through rates.




(3)

A company must not do any of the following:




(a)

make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to or
in favour of any particular person or company, or any particular
description of traffic, in any respect;




(b)

by any unreasonable delay or otherwise in any manner, make any
difference in treatment in the receiving, loading, forwarding,
unloading or delivery of the goods of a similar character in favour of
or against any particular person or company;




(c)

subject any particular person or company, or any particular
description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage, in any respect;




(d)

so distribute or allot its freight cars as to discriminate unjustly
against any locality or industry, or against any traffic which may
originate on its railway destined to a point on another railway with
which it connects.




(4)

A company which has or works a railway forming part of a continuous
line of railway with or which intersects any other railway, or which
has any terminus, station or wharf near to any terminus, station or
wharf of any other railway, must provide all due and reasonable
facilities for delivering to the other railway, or for receiving from
and forwarding by its railway, all the traffic arriving by the other
railway




(a)

without any unreasonable delay,




(b)

without any preference or advantage or prejudice or disadvantage as
mentioned,




(c)

so that no obstruction is offered to the public wanting to use the
railways as a continuous line of communication, and




(d)

so that all reasonable accommodation, by means of the railways of the
several companies, is at all times provided to the public.




(5)

The reasonable facilities which every railway company is required to
provide under this section include reasonable facilities for the
junction of private sidings or private branch railways with any
railway belonging to or worked by the company, and reasonable
facilities for receiving, forwarding and delivering traffic on and
from those sidings or private branch railways.




(6)

A company which grants any facilities for the carriage of goods by
express to any incorporated express company or person must grant equal
facilities, on equal terms and conditions, to any other incorporated
express company which demands such facilities.




(7)

Any agreement made between any 2 or more companies contrary to this
section is unlawful and null and void.






Questions which minister may determine




205

(1)


The minister may, by certificate, determine, as questions of fact,
whether or not traffic is or has been carried under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, and whether there has in any
case been unjust discrimination, or undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage, or prejudice or disadvantage, within the meaning of this
Act, or whether in any case the company has or has not complied with
section 204.




(2)

The minister may, by certificate, declare what constitutes




(a)

substantially similar circumstances and conditions, or unjust or
unreasonable preferences, advantages, prejudices or disadvantages
within the meaning of this Act, or




(b)

compliance or noncompliance with the provisions of this Part.




(3)

For the purposes of this Part, the minister may, by certificate, order
that




(a)

specific works be constructed or carried out,




(b)

property be acquired,




(c)

[Repealed 2003-45-27.]




(d)

cars, motive power or other equipment be allotted, distributed, used
or moved, as specified by the minister, or




(e)

any specified steps, systems or methods be taken or followed by any
particular company or companies, or by railway companies generally.






Considerations in deciding undue preference




206


In deciding whether a lower toll or difference in treatment does or
does not amount to an undue preference or an unjust discrimination,
the minister may consider whether the lower toll or difference in
treatment is necessary for the purpose of making possible, in the
interests of the public, the shipment of the traffic in respect of
which it is made.






Apportionment of toll for carriage by land and water




207


In any case in which the toll charged by the company for carriage,
partly by rail and partly by water, is expressed in a single sum, the
minister, for the purpose of determining whether a toll charged is
discriminatory or contrary in any way to this Act, may by summary
order require the company to declare promptly to the minister, or may
determine, what portion of the single sum is charged in respect of the
carriage by rail.




Part 30 and 31





Repealed




208-224


[Repealed 2003-45-28.]




Part 32 — General Provisions Respecting Carriage





Contracts impairing carriers' liability




225

(1)


Except as provided in this Act, a contract, condition, bylaw,
regulation, declaration or notice made or given by the company,
impairing, restricting or limiting its liability in respect of the
carriage of any traffic does not relieve the company from that
liability, unless the class of contract, condition, bylaw, regulation,
declaration or notice has been first authorized or approved by order
of the minister by certificate.




(2)

The minister may, by certificate, determine the extent to which the
liability of the company may be impaired, restricted or limited.






Repealed




226-228


[Repealed 2003-45-29.]




Part 33 — Collection of Tolls





Recovery of tolls by action




229


In case of refusal or neglect of payment on demand of any lawful tolls
or any part of them, the tolls or any part of them are, by and on
behalf of the company, recoverable in any court of competent
jurisdiction.






Seizure and sale of goods subject to tolls




230

(1)


Instead of proceeding under section 229 for the recovery of the tolls,
a company may




(a)

seize the goods for or in respect of which the tolls are payable, and




(b)

detain the goods until payment.




(2)

During the time a company detains goods under subsection (1), the
goods are at the risk of their owners.




(3)

If the tolls are not paid within 6 weeks, and, where the goods are
perishable goods, if the tolls are not paid on demand, or the goods
are liable to perish while in the possession of the company for delay
in payment or taking delivery by the consignee, the company may
advertise and sell all or any part of the goods, and out of the money
arising from the sale retain the tolls payable and all reasonable
charges and expenses of the seizure, detention and sale.




(4)

The company must pay or deliver the surplus, if any, or the goods that
remain unsold, to the person entitled to them.






Sale of unclaimed goods




231

(1)


If any goods remain in the possession of a company unclaimed for 12
months, the company may, on giving public notice by advertisement for
4 weeks in the Gazette and in other newspapers it considers necessary,
sell the goods by public auction, at a time and place mentioned in the
advertisement, and out of the proceeds pay the tolls and all
reasonable charges for storing, advertising and selling the goods.




(2)

The balance of the proceeds, if any, must be kept by the company for a
further period of 3 months, to be paid over to any person entitled to
it.






Deposit of unclaimed money




232

(1)


In this section,
"administrator"
has the same meaning as in the

Unclaimed Property Act

.




(1.1)

The company must transfer the following to the administrator on the
expiry of the applicable period:




(a)

any surplus of the proceeds of a sale under section 230 (3) that is
not claimed within the 3 month period after the date of the sale;




(b)

the balance of the proceeds of a sale under section 231 (1) that is
not claimed within the 3 month period referred to in section 231 (2).




(2)

Money transferred to the administrator under subsection (1.1) is
deemed to be an unclaimed money deposit under the

Unclaimed Property Act

.




Part 34 and 35





Repealed




233-244


[Repealed 2003-45-30.]




Part 36





Repealed




245-252


[Repealed 2004-8-30.]




Part 37 — Actions for Damages





Actions for damages




253

(1)


In any proceeding for indemnity for damages or injuries sustained
because of the construction or operation of a railway, the defendants
may prove that the damage or injury alleged to have been done was
under this Act.




(2)

Nothing in this section applies to any action brought against the
company on any breach of contract, express or implied, for or relating
to the carriage of any traffic, or to any action against the company
for damages under the provisions of this Act respecting tolls.




(3)

No inspection done under this Act, and nothing in this Act and nothing
done or ordered or omitted to be done or ordered, under this Act,
relieves, or is to be construed to relieve, any company of or from or
in any way diminish or affect any liability or responsibility resting
on it, either toward the government or any person, or the spouse,
parent or child, executor or administrator, heir or personal
representative, of any person, for anything done or omitted to be done
by the company, or for any wrongful act, neglect or default,
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance of the company.




Part 38





Repealed




254


[Repealed 2004-51-43.]




Part 39 — Peace Officers





Power to appoint railway constables




255

(1)


The commissioner of the Provincial police force and any inspector of
the force may, on the application of the company, or the application
of a clerk or agent of the company, appoint any person recommended for
that purpose by the company, clerk or agent to act as constable on and
along a railway owned or operated by the company.




(2)

A person appointed under subsection (1) must take an oath or make a
solemn declaration, which may be administered by any judge or official
authorized to make the appointment or to administer oaths, in the form
or to the effect following:



I,
A.B.
, having been appointed a constable to act upon and along [
name of railway
], under the
Railway Act
, swear that I will well and truly serve our Sovereign Lady the Queen
in the office of constable, without favour or affection, malice or ill
will; that I will, to the best of my power, cause the peace to be
kept, and prevent all offences against the peace; and that while I
continue to hold the office I will, to the best of my skill and
knowledge, discharge its duties faithfully, according to law. So help
me God.




(3)

The appointment must be made in writing and be signed by the official
making the appointment, and the fact that the person appointed by the
written appointment has taken the oath or declaration must be endorsed
on the written appointment by the person administering the oath or
declaration.






Powers of constable




256

(1)


A constable appointed who has taken the oath or made the declaration
may act as a constable for the preservation of the peace, and for the
security of persons and property against unlawful acts




(a)

on the railway, and on any of the works belonging to it,




(b)

on and about any trains, roads, wharves, quays, landing places,
warehouses, land and premises belonging to the company, whether they
are in the county, city, town, municipality, district or other local
jurisdiction within which the constable was appointed, or in any other
place through which the railway passes or in which it terminates, or
through or to which any railway passes which is worked or leased by
the company, and




(c)

in all places not more than 1/4 mile distant from the railway.




(2)

A constable appointed under this Part has all the powers, protection
and privileges for the apprehending of offenders, as well by night as
by day, and for doing all things for the prevention, discovery and
prosecution of offences, and for keeping the peace, as any constable
duly appointed has within the constable's jurisdiction.






Dismissal of constable




257


The minister may by summary order, and the commissioner of the
Provincial police force may by summary order, cancel the appointment
of and dismiss any constable appointed under this Part.




Part 40 and 41





Repealed




258-260


[Repealed 2004-51-45.]




Part 42





Repealed




261-262


[Repealed 2003-45-31.]






Repealed




263-264


[Repealed 2004-8-30.]






Repealed




265


[Repealed 2003-45-31.]




Part 43 to 45





Repealed




266-281


[Repealed 2004-8-30.]




Part 46 — Saving Clause





Application of this and former Acts to companies named in special Acts




282

(1)


If in any special Act there is a provision that prevents the
application of any section in any Act repealed by S.B.C. 1911, c. 44,
to the undertaking of the company named in the special Act, the
similar provision in this Act to the repealed section does not apply
to the undertaking.




(2)

If in and by the special Act provision is made for the application to
the undertaking of the company by express enumeration of any section
or sections of a repealed Act, the section or sections expressly
enumerated, for the purposes of the special Act and of the undertaking
of the company named in the special Act, remain in full force, and
must be taken to be and to have always been incorporated with and to
form and to have always formed part of the special Act.




