




Referendum Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 400






Lieutenant Governor in Council may order a referendum




1

(1)


If the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers that an expression of
public opinion is desirable on any matter of public interest or
concern, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation, order
that a referendum be conducted in the manner provided for in this Act.




(2)

If the Lieutenant Governor in Council orders a referendum, the order
must




(a)

state the question or questions that will be put to the electorate at
the referendum,




(b)

specify the date on which the referendum will be conducted, and




(c)

designate the area of British Columbia within which the referendum
will be held.




(3)

The persons who are entitled to vote in a referendum are persons who
are voters, as defined in the

Election Act

, at the time of the referendum.






Application to
Recall and Initiative Act




2


This Act does not apply to initiative votes under the

Recall and Initiative Act

.






Results of referendum to be announced




3


The Chief Electoral Officer must announce the results of a referendum
in a manner that the Chief Electoral Officer considers will inform the
electorate of that result.






Some referendums are binding on the government




4


If more than 50% of the validly cast ballots vote the same way on a
question stated, that result is binding on the government that
initiated the referendum.






Duty if referendum is binding




5


If the results of a referendum are binding, the government must, as
soon as practicable, take steps, within the competence of the
government, that the government considers necessary or advisable to
implement the results of the referendum including any and all of the
following:




(a)

changing programs or policies, or introducing new programs or
policies, that are administered by or through the executive
government;




(b)

introducing legislation in the Legislative Assembly during its first
session after the results of such a referendum are known.






Regulations




6

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations




(a)

providing that specified provisions of the

Election Act

apply to and in relation to a referendum under this Act, and




(b)

adapting any provisions of that Act with changes that the Lieutenant
Governor in Council considers appropriate.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations that the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers
necessary or advisable respecting the manner by which a referendum
under this Act is to be conducted.






Appropriation




7


Administrative costs of conducting a referendum under this Act may be
paid out of the consolidated revenue fund.




