




Regulatory Reporting Act


[SBC 2011] CHAPTER								28




Assented to November 24, 2011










Minister to publish report





1



(1)


On or before June 30 in each year, the minister must publish a report respecting the government's regulatory reform initiatives that meets the requirements set out in subsection (2).






(2)


The report must






(a)


cover the 12-month period ending on March 31 of the year in which the report is published, and






(b)


include the information required by the regulations.






(3)


The report must be published in a manner that can reasonably be expected to bring the report to the attention of the public.






(4)


If the minister determines that the report will not be published by the date referred to in subsection (1), on or before that date the minister must make public a written statement giving the reasons for the non-compliance.








Legal proceedings





2



(1)


No action or other proceeding may be brought in respect of an obligation established under this Act.






(2)


Section 5 of the


Offence Act


does not apply to this Act or the regulations.








Power to make regulations





3



(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the


Interpretation Act


.






(2)


Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:






(a)


respecting the information that must be included in a report;






(b)


respecting the methodology by which regulatory reform initiatives are to be assessed;






(c)


respecting the enactments that are relevant for the purposes of assessing regulatory reform initiatives.






(3)


In making a regulation under this Act, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may do one or more of the following:






(a)


delegate a matter to a person;






(b)


confer a discretion on a person;






(c)


make different regulations for different enactments or regulatory reform initiatives, or classes of enactments or regulatory reform initiatives;






(d)


establish or define classes of enactments or regulatory reform initiatives.








Commencement





4



This Act comes into force on the date of Royal Assent.




