Conflict of Laws Rules for Trusts Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 65
Definitions and interpretation
1
(1)
In this Act:
"law"
means the rules of law in force in a province of Canada other than the
rules of conflict of laws;
"settlor"
means a person who creates a trust;
"trust"
means the legal relationship that exists when
(a)
assets are under the control of a trustee,
(b)
the assets constitute a separate fund and are not a part of the estate
of the trustee,
(c)
title to the assets stands in the name of the trustee or in the name
of another person on behalf of the trustee, and
(d)
the trustee has the power and the duty, in respect of which the
trustee is accountable, to hold, manage, employ, dispose of or deliver
the assets in accordance with the terms of the legal relationship and
the special duties imposed by law;
"trustee"
means a person who has control of assets for the benefit of a
beneficiary or for a specified purpose;
"validity of a trust"
means essential validity of a trust.
(2)
For the purposes of this Act
(a)
the reservation by a settlor of rights and powers, and the fact that a
trustee may have rights as a beneficiary, are not necessarily
inconsistent with the existence of a trust, and
(b)
the fact that a settlor is a trustee or a beneficiary, or both, of a
trust created by the settlor is not inconsistent with the existence of
a trust unless the settlor is both the sole trustee and the sole
beneficiary of a trust created by the settlor.
Application of Act
2
(1)
This Act applies if
(a)
the law governing the trust as determined under this Act is that of a
province of Canada, and
(b)
the
International Trusts Act
does not apply to the trust.
(2)
This Act applies to trusts arising before May 14, 1993 as well as
to trusts arising after that date, but is not to be construed as
affecting the law to be applied in relation to anything done or
omitted under a trust before that date.
(3)
This Act does not apply to preliminary issues relating to the validity
of instruments or acts by which trusts are created.
(4)
This Act does not apply to the extent that the law governing the trust
as determined under this Act does not provide for the type of trust
involved.
Law governing trust
3
(1)
A trust is governed by the law chosen by the settlor, which choice may
be express or implied.
(2)
If the law chosen by the settlor to govern the trust does not provide
for the type of trust involved, the choice is not effective and the
trust is governed by the law with which it is most closely connected.
(3)
If the settlor has not chosen the law to govern the trust, the trust
is governed by the law with which it is most closely connected.
(4)
In ascertaining the law with which a trust is most closely connected,
reference must be made in particular to
(a)
the place of administration of the trust expressly or impliedly chosen
by the settlor, or
(b)
failing the choice referred to in paragraph (a), the place of
residence or business of the trustee, or, if there are 2 or more
trustees, the place where the administration of the trust is
principally carried out.
Law governing severable aspects of trust
4
(1)
Severable aspects of a trust, including the validity of a trust, the
construction of a trust, the administration of a trust and different
assets subject to a trust, may be governed by different laws
determined in accordance with section 3.
(2)
The law governing the validity of a trust determines whether the
question to be resolved is one of validity, construction or
administration.
Replacement of governing law
5
The law governing the validity of a trust determines whether that law
or the law governing the administration or any other severable aspect
of a trust may be replaced by another law.
Residence of trust
6
The residence of a trust is the place where the administration of the
trust is carried out or is principally carried out.
Recognition and enforcement of trusts
7
(1)
Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring that recognition
or effect be given to a trust or a severable aspect of a trust if the
significant elements of the trust or aspect, other than the settlor's
choice of law, are most closely connected with a jurisdiction the law
of which does not provide for the type of trust or aspect involved.
(2)
Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring that recognition
or effect be given to a trust or a severable aspect of a trust if the
giving of recognition or effect would be contrary to the public policy
of British Columbia or would contravene a fundamental principle of the
law of a jurisdiction having a stronger policy interest in the matter
than has any other jurisdiction.
(3)
Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring that recognition
or effect be given to a trust that exists only because of a judicial
declaration in another jurisdiction, or to a severable aspect of such
a trust, if the Supreme Court is satisfied that there is a substantial
reason for refusing to give recognition or effect to the trust or
aspect.
(4)
Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring that recognition
or effect be given to a trust imposed by statute in another
jurisdiction, or to a severable aspect of such a trust, if the Supreme
Court is satisfied that there is substantial reason for refusing to
give recognition or effect to the trust or aspect.
Conflict with
Wills, Estates and Succession Act
8
If there is a conflict between a provision of this Act and a provision
of the
Wills, Estates and Succession Act
with respect to the law governing a trust created by a will or a
severable aspect of such a trust, this Act prevails.
