B.c. reg. 291/78 O.c. 1906/78 Filed july 14, 1978 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Prisons and reformatories act (canada) Procedures and rules — remission for industrious behaviour Remission credit categories 1 Remission awards shall be based on a prisoner's level of industrious Performance as reported in appraisals of his performance and shall Result in a remission credit in accordance with the following Categories:
(a) Average performance — 15 days remission credit; (b) Fair performance — 8 to 14 days remission credit; (c) Unsatisfactory performance — 0 to 7 days remission credit.
Remission award committee 2 A remission award committee shall be established in every british Columbia correctional centre, camp or unit.
Composition of committee 3 (1) The remission award committee shall be composed of an officer in Charge of the unit who shall be the chairperson, a shift supervisor And one other officer appointed by the local director.
(2) In those correction centres, camps or units where subsection (1) is Declared to be inapplicable by the commissioner, the remission award Committee shall be composed of such officer(s) as designated by the Local director.
Committee responsibilities 4 The responsibilities of the remission award committee shall be as Follows:
(a) To meet monthly and consider prisoner performance appraisals submitted By corrections branch officers; (b) To determine the number of days of remission to be credited each Sentenced prisoner; (c) To notify prisoners, records officers and any other persons deemed Advisable of the remission award.
Prisoner performance appraisal 5 A prisoner performance appraisal shall include the evaluation of a Prisoner's industrious application to the program in which he Participates, which may include work, training, leisure, living unit Or community activities, and shall include an evaluation of the degree To which he cooperates with others in the course of his participation In these activities.
Example of performance 6 Every person submitting a performance appraisal shall consider the Categories provided under section 1 and shall provide example(s) of Performance relative to the category selected.
Minimum appraisals per program activity 7 There shall be a minimum of one prisoner appraisal per month from each Program activity described in section 5 in which the prisoner Participates.
When remission awards credited 8 Remission awards shall be credited at month end or at times of Transfer.
Remission for incomplete months 9 Remission awards for incomplete months shall be made on a pro rata Basis.
Review of remission award 10 (1) A prisoner who is not satisfied with a remission award may, within 7 Days of receipt of said award, apply in writing to the district Director for a review of the decision made by the remission award Committee.
(2) Within 2 weeks of receipt of a prisoner's request for review, the District director shall examine the basis on which the remission award Committee's decision was made, determine the validity of the Prisoner's request, and advise the prisoner and the chairperson of the Remission award committee of his decision to (a) Confirm the remission award credited, (b) Increase the number of remission days credited, (c) Reduce the number of remission days credited, or (d) Direct the remission award committee to re-examine its decision.
Indeterminate sentences 11 A prisoner serving the indeterminate portion of a Definite-interdeterminate sentence shall be eligible to receive a Remission award.
[provisions of the Prisons and reformatories act (canada), r.s.c. 1985, c. p-20, relevant to the enactment of this Regulation: section 6 (1)]