B.c. reg. 120/2020 O.c. 287/2020 Deposited june 1, 2020 Effective may 17, 2021 Except division 5 of part 9 Effective may 16, 2022 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Court rules act Provincial court family rules [last amended february 5, 2024 by b.c. reg. 9/2024] Part 1 — purpose and interpretation Division 1 — general information for these rules Purpose
1 The purpose of these rules is to encourage parties to resolve their Cases by agreement or to help them obtain a just and timely decision In a way that (a) Takes into account the impact that the conduct of a case may have on a Child and family, (b) Minimizes conflict, (c) Promotes cooperation between the parties, and (d) Provides processes for resolution that are efficient and consistent With the complexity of the cases to be resolved.
Definitions and interpretation 2 (1) In these rules:
"adult" Means a person who is at least 19 years of age; "case" Means
(a) A proceeding started under these rules, or (b) A pre-existing proceeding within the meaning of rule 195 [definitions for part 13] ; "certificate of service" Means a certificate in form 7 [certificate of service] , prepared in accordance with rule 183 [proving service] , that certifies service; "clerk" Means a person who provides administrative support to the court; "consensual dispute resolution" Means
(a) Mediation with a family law mediator who is qualified as a family Dispute resolution professional in accordance with section 4 [family law mediators] Of the family law act regulation, (b) A collaborative family law process conducted in accordance with a Collaborative participation agreement, or (c) Facilitated negotiation of a child support or spousal support matter With a child support officer employed by the family justice services Division of the ministry of attorney general; "court" Means the provincial court; "early resolution registry" Means a registry specified in rule 6 (a) to which Part 2
[early resolution registries] Applies;
"family justice counsellor" Means a person appointed as a family justice counsellor under Section 10
[family justice counsellors] Of the Family law act ; "family justice manager" Means a person (a) In a class of decision makers prescribed under the Family law act , and (b) Appointed as a decision maker under the Provincial court act ; "family justice registry" Means a registry specified in rule 6 (b) to which part 6 [family justice registries] Applies;
"family law act regulation" Means the family law act regulation, b.c. reg. 347/2012; "family law matter" Means a case about one or more of the following:
(a) Parenting arrangements, including parental responsibilities and Parenting time; (b) Child support; (c) Contact with a child; (d) Guardianship of a child; (e) Spousal support; (f) Property division in respect of a companion animal; "family member" , with respect to a person, means (a) The person's spouse or former spouse, (b) A person with whom the person is living, or has lived, in a Marriage-like relationship, (c) A parent or guardian of the person's child, (d) A person who lives with, and is related to, (i) The person, or (ii) A person referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (c), or (e) The person's child, And includes a child who is living with, or whose parent or guardian Is, a person referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (e); "family violence" Includes, with or without an intent to harm a family member, (a) Physical abuse of a family member, including forced confinement or Deprivation of the necessities of life, but not including the use of Reasonable force to protect oneself or others from harm, (b) Sexual abuse of a family member, (c) Attempts to physically or sexually abuse a family member, (d) Psychological or emotional abuse of a family member, including (i) Intimidation, harassment, coercion or threats, including threats Respecting other persons, pets or property, (ii) Unreasonable restrictions on, or prevention of, a family member's Financial or personal autonomy, (iii) Stalking or following of the family member, and (iv) Intentional damage to property, and (e) In the case of a child, direct or indirect exposure to family Violence;
"file" Means to file with the clerk in the registry; "filed copy" Means a copy of a document that is filed and date stamped with the Registry stamp; "method of attendance" , in relation to a court appearance, includes (a) Attending in person, and (b) Attending by telephone, video conference or other means of electronic Communication;
"needs assessor" Means a family justice counsellor who conducts a needs assessment Under rule 16 [participating in needs assessment] Or 93
[participating in needs assessment in family justice registries] ; "parenting education program" Means an educational program that is designed to support informed and Child-focused decisions and that is approved by the family justice Services division of the ministry of attorney general; "parenting education program registry" Means a registry specified in rule 6 (c) to which Part 7
[parenting education program registries] Applies;
"party" Includes the following persons who may be named in a case:
(a) A person who files a notice to resolve a family law matter, or is Named as the other party on a notice to resolve, under rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] ; (b) A person who files an application; (c) A person who files a reply, or may file a reply, to an application; (d) A person who is named as the other party in an application under these Rules;
(e) A person who is added as a party under these rules; (f) The director of maintenance enforcement, if the application is made Under division 2 [enforcement of support orders under the Family maintenance enforcement act ] Of part 10 [enforcement] ; "peace officer" Means
(a) A sheriff, or (b) A police officer, police constable or constable, including a member of The royal canadian mounted police who is deemed to be a provincial Constable under section 14 (2) [royal canadian mounted police as provincial police force] Of the Police act ; "priority parenting matter" Means any of the following matters:
(a) Giving, refusing or withdrawing consent, by a guardian, to medical, Dental or other health-related treatments for a child, if delay will Result in risk to the child's health; (b) Applying, by a guardian, for (i) A passport, licence, permit, benefit, privilege or other thing for a Child, if delay will result in risk of harm to the child's physical, Psychological or emotional safety, security or well-being, or (ii) Travel with a child or participation by a child in an activity if Consent to the travel or activity is required and is alleged to have Been wrongfully denied; (c) Relating to change in location of a child's residence, or a guardian's Plan to change the location of a child's residence, if (i) No written agreement or order respecting parenting arrangements Applies in respect of the child, and (ii) The change of residence can reasonably be expected to have a Significant impact on the child's relationship with another guardian; (d) Relating to the removal of a child under section 64 [orders to prevent removal of child] Of the Family law act ; (e) Determining matters relating to interjurisdictional issues under Section 74 (2) (c) [determining whether to act under part 4 — care of and time with Children]
Of the Family law act ; (f) Relating to the alleged wrongful removal of a child under section 77 (2) [wrongful removal of child] Of the Family law act ; (g) Relating to the return of a child alleged to have been wrongfully Removed or retained under the convention on the civil aspects of International child abduction signed at the hague on October 25, 1980;
(h) Applying for an order under section 45 [orders respecting parenting arrangements] Or 51
[orders respecting guardianship] Of the Family law act In one of the following circumstances:
(i) The child to whom the order relates has been removed under section 30 [removal of child] , 36 [interim supervision order no longer protects the child] Or 42
[enforcement of supervision order after the protection hearing] Of the Child, family and community service act And a director under that act has advised that the order will allow The child to be returned to the person applying for the order; (ii) A director under the Child, family and community service act Has advised that the child to whom the order relates will be removed Under section 30, 36 or 42 of that act unless the order is Made;
"registry" Means the provincial court registry that is responsible for (a) Providing services to people on behalf of the court in a particular Region of the province, and (b) Maintaining all documents and records that are filed for a case; "support" Includes maintenance.
(2) In these rules, unless a term is otherwise defined or a contrary Intention appears, the definitions in the Family law act Apply.
(3) For certainty, "child support guidelines" Has the same meaning as in the Family law act And includes the federal child support guidelines established under Section 26.1 of the Divorce act (canada), as set out in part 4 [child support guidelines] Of the family law act regulation.
[am. b.c. regs. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 1; 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 1; 214/2023, s. 1.] Financial statements 3 When financial statements are required or referred to in these rules, They must be filed, unless otherwise indicated, (a) In form 4 [financial statement] , and (b) With any attachments that are described in that form for the family Law matter or other specific circumstances that apply.
Division 2 — understanding how to use these rules What these rules apply to 4 (1) These rules apply to cases in the provincial court about the following Matters:
(a) Matters under the Family maintenance enforcement act ; (b) Matters under the Family law act , other than the following parts of the act:
(i) Part 3
[parentage] , except as is necessary to make an order under that part to determine Another family law matter over which the provincial court has Jurisdiction;
(ii) Part 5
[property division] , except in respect of a companion animal; (iii) Part 6
[pension division] ; (iv) Part 8
[children's property] .
(2) For certainty, the matters referred to in subrule (1) to which these Rules apply include the following:
(a) Family law matters; (b) Protection orders under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act ; (c) Priority parenting matters; (d) Relocation;
(e) Enforcement, including enforcement of support orders under the Family maintenance enforcement act .
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 2.] What these rules do not apply to 5 These rules do not apply to the following matters:
(a) Divorce, which is addressed under (i) The
Divorce act , and (ii) The supreme court family rules; (b) Except in respect of a companion animal, property division, which is Addressed under (i) The
Family law act , and (ii) The supreme court family rules; (b.1) Pension division, which is addressed under (i) The
Family law act , and (ii) The supreme court family rules; (c) Adoption, which is addressed under (i) The
Adoption act , and (ii) The supreme court family rules; (d) Child protection, which is addressed under (i) The
Child, family and community service act , and (ii) The provincial court (child, family and community service act) rules; (e) Adult guardianship, which is addressed under (i) The
Adult guardianship act , and (ii) The provincial court (adult guardianship) rules; (f) Interjurisdictional support orders, which are addressed under the Interjurisdictional support orders act , except as provided in rules 134 (a) [filing orders] And 136
[applying to set aside interjurisdictional order] .
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 3.] Parts that apply in certain registries 6 In these rules, (a) The surrey and victoria registries are an early resolution registry For the purposes of part 2 [early resolution registries] , (b) The kelowna, nanaimo and vancouver (robson square) registries are Family justice registries for the purposes of part 6 [family justice registries] , (c) All registries, except early resolution registries and family justice Registries, are parenting education program registries for the Purposes of part 7 [parenting education program registries] , and (d) The kamloops registry is an informal trial pilot project registry for The purposes of division 5 [informal trial pilot project rules] Of part 9.
[am. b.c. regs. 236/2020, sch. 2, s. 1; 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 2 and Sch. 2, s. 1.] Which registry to use 7 (1) The registry that must be used for filing a form or document under These rules is the following:
(a) If there is an existing case with the same parties, the registry where The existing case is located; (b) If there is not an existing case with the same parties, the registry Closest to the following:
(i) If the case involves a child-related issue, the residence where the Child lives most of the time; (ii) If the case does not involve a child-related issue, the residence of The person who first files a document under these rules.
(2) If there is an existing case, (a) The existing court file must be used if the parties are the same, or (b) A new court file in the same registry must be used if paragraph (a) Does not apply.
(3) A party seeking an order about a protection order or a priority Parenting matter may do so in any registry, with permission of the Court.
Agreement or resolution possible at any time 8 Parties may come to an agreement or otherwise reach resolution about Family law issues at any time.
Part 2 — early resolution registries Division 1 — early resolution registries Early resolution registry 9 The rules set out in this part apply in the following early resolution Registries, as set out in rule 6 (a) [parts that apply in certain registries] :
(a) Surrey;
(b) Victoria.
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2020, sch. 2, s. 2.] Division 2 — early resolution requirements Early resolution requirements must Be met before application filed 10 Before filing an application about a family law matter under part 3 [application about family law matters] , a party seeking resolution of a family law matter in an early Resolution registry must, unless otherwise provided in these rules, (a) File a notice to resolve in form 1 [notice to resolve a family law matter] , (b) Provide a copy of the notice to resolve to each other party, (c) Participate in a needs assessment under rule 16 [participating in needs assessment] , (d) Complete a parenting education program under rule 17 [completing parenting education program] , and (e) Participate in at least one consensual dispute resolution session Under rule 18 [participating in consensual dispute resolution] .
Early resolution requirements must Be met before reply filed 11 Before filing a reply under rule 28 [reply to application about family law matter] To an application about a family law matter in an early resolution Registry, the party filing the reply must, unless otherwise provided In these rules, (a) Participate in a needs assessment under rule 16 [participating in needs assessment] , (b) Complete a parenting education program under rule 17 [completing parenting education program] , and (c) Participate in at least one consensual dispute resolution session Under rule 18 [participating in consensual dispute resolution] .
Exception to early resolution requirements 12 The early resolution requirements described in rules 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] And 11
[early resolution requirements must be met before reply filed] (a) Do not apply if the application about the family law matter is only For support and that party has assigned support rights to the Government under the Employment and assistance act Or the Employment and assistance for persons with disabilities act , (b) Cease to apply if the court file for the case is transferred under Rule 62
[case management orders — judge] Or 63
[case management orders — family justice manager] To a registry that is not an early resolution registry, and (c) Are not required if a party is only applying for one or more of the Following orders under part 5 [applying for other orders] Or part 10 [enforcement] :
(i) A case management order; (ii) A protection order; (iii) An order about a priority parenting matter; (iv) An order about relocation; (v) A consent order; (vi) An enforcement order.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 2.] Certain parties exempt from requirements 13 A party who is the government, a minister or a public officer is not Required to meet the requirements that apply to a party under this Part.
Protection orders and orders about Priority parenting matters take priority 14 For certainty, if a party applies for an order about a family law Matter and (a) An order about a protection order under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act , or (b) A priority parenting matter, The party may apply for the order about the protection order or the Priority parenting matter before complying with rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] Or 11
[early resolution requirements must be met before reply filed] .
Division 3 — notice of intention to proceed Intention to proceed in certain cases after one year 15 (1) The parties must meet the requirements in subrule (2) (a) and (b) if No application about a family law matter has been filed in a case and More than one year has passed since the latest date on which one of The parties took any of the following steps in the case:
(a) Filed a notice to resolve a family law matter in form 1 [notice to resolve a family law matter] :
(b) Participated in a needs assessment:
(c) Completed a parenting education program; (d) Participated in a consensual dispute resolution session.
(2) Before the parties described in subrule (1) may proceed, (a) A party must file a notice of intention to proceed in form 2 [notice of intention to proceed] And provide a copy of the notice to each other party, and (b) The parties must participate in a new needs assessment.
Division 4 — needs assessment Participating in needs assessment 16 Unless otherwise provided in these rules, each party must participate Individually in a needs assessment conducted by a needs assessor for The following:
(a) Assistance with identifying legal and non-legal needs; (b) Information about resolving issues, including (i) How to resolve family law matters and other issues out of court, and (ii) How to apply for a court order; (c) Provision of (i) A referral to an appropriate parenting education program under Division 5
[parenting education program] , or (ii) An exemption from a parenting education program under that division; (d) Referrals to other resources, including where and how (i) To seek legal advice, (ii) To access legal information, (iii) To access resources for issues that are not legal in nature, and (iv) To access resources for children dealing with family changes; (e) Assessment of whether consensual dispute resolution under division 6 [consensual dispute resolution] Is not appropriate; (f) Assessment of any risk of family violence; (g) Referrals to other resources for individuals and families experiencing Or concerned about family violence.
Division 5 — parenting education program Completing parenting education program 17 Each party must complete a parenting education program unless a needs Assessor exempts that party because (a) The party has already completed the parenting education program in the 2 years before the date of the needs assessment, (b) The family law matter is related only to spousal support, (b.1) The family law matter is related only to property division in respect Of a companion animal, (b.2) The family law matter is related to both spousal support and to Property division in respect of a companion animal, (c) Every child involved in the family law matter has reached 19 years of Age,
(d) The party cannot access an online version, (e) The parenting education program is not offered in a language in which The party is fluent, (f) The party cannot complete an online version due to literacy Challenges, or (g) The party cannot complete the parenting education program due to a Serious medical condition.
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 4.] Division 6 — consensual dispute resolution Participating in consensual dispute resolution 18 (1) The parties must attempt to resolve a family law matter by Participating in at least one consensual dispute resolution session Unless
(a) A needs assessor determines that the parties cannot access consensual Dispute resolution services, or (b) A needs assessor or a consensual dispute resolution professional Determines that participation in a consensual dispute resolution Session is not appropriate.
(2) To prepare for a consensual dispute resolution session, each party Must participate in any preparatory meetings or other preparatory Process as required by the consensual dispute resolution professional.
Certain parties not required to comply With consensual dispute resolution 19 The requirements described in rule 18 [participating in consensual dispute resolution] Do not apply to any parties if one of the parties is (a) The director of maintenance enforcement, or (b) A director under the Child, family and community service act .
Financial information for Consensual dispute resolution 20 If financial information for consensual dispute resolution is Required, it must be provided in the form required by the consensual Dispute resolution professional.
Division 7 — failure to comply with early resolution requirements Application in early resolution registry may proceed once filed 21 If a party has met the early resolution registry requirements Described in rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] , the party may proceed to make an application for an order about a Family law matter in accordance with these rules even if the other Party is unable or unwilling to comply with the early resolution Requirements described in rule 11 [early resolution requirements must be met before reply filed] .
Failure of party to comply with early resolution requirements 22 If a party who receives a notice to resolve does not comply with the Early resolution requirements under rule 11 [early resolution requirements must be met before reply filed] , the party may not participate in the case unless the court orders Otherwise.
Part 3 — application about family law matters Division 1 — applying for family law matter orders Application of part 23 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Applying for orders about family law matters 24 (1) In this rule, "order about a family law matter" Means an order about any of the following:
(a) A new order about a family law matter; (b) An order to change or cancel all or part of an existing final order About a family law matter other than property division in respect of a Companion animal; (c) An order to set aside or replace all or part of an agreement about a Family law matter.
(2) To apply for an order about a family law matter in a registry other Than an early resolution registry, a party must file and serve on each Other party an application about a family law matter in form 3 [application about a family law matter] .
(3) To apply for an order about a family law matter in an early resolution Registry, a party must (a) Meet the early resolution requirements described in rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] , and (b) After having met the early resolution requirements, file and serve on Each other party an application about a family law matter in Form 3
[application about a family law matter] .
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 5.] Additional requirements when applying for certain orders 25 (1) A party must file the following additional documents with an Application about a family law matter:
(a) For an order about an existing order or written agreement, a copy of The existing order or written agreement; (b) For an order about child support, if the party is required under the Child support guidelines to provide income information, a financial Statement in form 4 [financial statement] , and any applicable information and documents described in Form 4 as required under the child support guidelines; (c) For an order about spousal support, a financial statement in form 4.
(2) In addition to filing the additional documents under subrule (1), a Party applying for an order about being appointed as a guardian must (a) File the following additional documents with the party's application:
(i) A consent for child protection record check in form 5 under the family Law act regulation; (ii) A request, in the form provided by the registry, to search the Protection order registry, and (b) Certify on the application that the party has initiated a criminal Record check.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 3.] Additional documents required when Applying for orders about guardianship 26 (1) A party making an application for an order about guardianship under Section 51
[orders respecting guardianship] Of the Family law act , including an application for a consent order for guardianship, must File an affidavit in form 5 [guardianship affidavit] With the following exhibits attached:
(a) A child protection record check from the ministry of children and Family development; (b) A protection order record check from the protection order registry; (c) A criminal record check.
(2) The documents referred to in subrule (1) must be filed and served on Each other party (a) At least 7 days before the date set for the hearing of the application If no trial preparation conference is scheduled, or (b) At least 7 days before the date of the trial preparation conference if A trial preparation conference is scheduled.
(3) The following periods apply in relation to the documents referred to In subrule (1):
(a) An affidavit referred to in subrule (1) must be sworn no more than 7 days before the date the affidavit is filed; (b) The record checks referred to in subrule (1) (a), (b) and (c) must be Dated within 60 days before the date that the record check is Filed.
[am. b.c. regs. 236/2020, sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4; 126/2021, sch. 1, s.
4.] Serving application about family law matter 27 (1) If a party is applying for an order about a family law matter under Rule 24
[applying for orders about family law matters] , the party must ensure the personal service of the application about The family law matter by having an adult who is not a party leave a Copy of the following documents with the party who is to be served:
(a) The application about the family law matter; (b) Instructions, in the form provided by the registry, about the Following:
(i) How to file a reply; (ii) How to obtain form 6 [reply to an application about a family law matter (with counter Application)]
For filing a reply; (c) Any applicable additional documents, as described in rules 25 [additional requirements when applying for certain orders] And 26
[additional documents required when applying for orders about Guardianship]
.
(2) If a certificate of service is required under these rules, an adult Who serves documents under subrule (1) must complete a Certificate of service in form 7 [certificate of service] And provide it to the party who filed the application about the family Law matter.
(3) If a reply is not filed under division 2 [family law matter reply and counter application] Within 30 days of service of an application about a family law Matter under subrule (1), the party applying for an order about a Family law matter must file the certificate of service.
Division 2 — family law matter reply and counter application Reply to application about family law matter 28 (1) A party who is served with an application about a family law matter May file a reply in accordance with this rule.
(2) To reply to an application about a family law matter that has been Filed in a registry other than an early resolution registry, a party Must
(a) File a reply in form 6 [reply to an application about a family law matter (with counter Application)]
, and (b) If the application about the family law matter is about child support Or spousal support, file a financial statement in form 4 [financial statement] With the party's reply.
(3) To reply to an application about a family law matter that has been Filed in an early resolution registry, a party must (a) Meet the early resolution requirements described in rule 11 [early resolution requirements must be met before reply filed] , and (b) After having met the early resolution requirements, file the materials Referred to in subrule (2) (a) and (b), as applicable.
(4) A reply and, if applicable, a financial statement must be filed by a Party within 30 days after the date that the party is served the Application about the family law matter.
Content of reply 29 In a reply, a party may do any of the following:
(a) Agree with one or more of the orders applied for in the application About the family law matter; (b) Disagree with one or more of the orders applied for in the application About the family law matter; (c) Include a counter application in accordance with rule 30.
Counter applications 30 (1) In a reply, a party may include a counter application to apply for an Order about a different family law matter that was not included in the Application about the family law matter.
(2) A party must file the applicable additional documents described in Rule 25
[additional requirements when applying for certain orders] With the counter application if the counter application is about any Of the following:
(a) An existing order or agreement; (b) Child support; (c) Appointment as a guardian; (d) Spousal support.
(3) If a counter application is for an order about guardianship under Section 51
[orders respecting guardianship] Of the Family law act , the party making the counter application must file the documents Described in rule 26 (1) [additional documents required when applying for orders about Guardianship]
.
(4) The time limit for filing described in rule 26 (2) [additional documents required when applying for orders about Guardianship]
And the periods set out in rule 26 (3) apply to the Documents referred to in subrule (3) of this rule.
If no reply filed 31 If a party does not file a reply within 30 days in accordance with Rule 28
[reply to application about a family law matter] , (a) The party is not entitled to receive notice of any part of the Proceedings, including any court appearance, and (b) A judge or family justice manager may make orders in the absence of The party.
Judge or family justice manager may direct matters if Party does not file reply 32 Despite rule 31 [if no reply filed] , a judge or family justice manager may (a) Direct that a party who does not file a reply under rule 28 [reply to application about family law matter] Receive notice of and attend a family management conference or another Conference or hearing, and (b) Issue a summons in form 31 [summons — general] .
Copy to filing party 33 The registry, within 21 days after a reply is filed under rule 28 [reply to application about family law matter] , must provide a copy of the following to the party who filed the Application about the family law matter, as applicable:
(a) The reply; (b) The counter application included with the reply; (c) All documents filed with the reply and counter application.
Replying to counter application 34 A party who is replying to a counter application must file and serve On each other party the following within 30 days after the date That the party receives the reply with counter application:
(a) A reply to the counter application in form 8 [reply to a counter application] ; (b) If applicable, a financial statement in form 4 [financial statement] .
Part 4 — family management conferences Division 1 — application and purpose Application of part 35 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Purpose of family management conference 36 (1) The purpose of a family management conference is to provide an Informal and time-limited process in which the judge or family justice Manager
(a) Assists the parties to identify the issues to be resolved, (b) Explores options to resolve the issues, (c) Is able to make orders and directions under division 2 [case management orders] Of part 5 [applying for other orders] Based on information provided by or on behalf of the parties to ensure That a file is ready to proceed to the next step in the process, (d) Is able to make interim orders under rule 50 [interim orders] To address needs until the parties resolve their family law matters, And
(e) Is able to make orders under (i) Rule 31
[if no reply filed] , if a party does not file a reply, (ii) Rule 52
[consent orders] , by consent of the parties, and (iii) Rule 54
[orders made in the absence of a party — judge] Or 55
[orders made in the absence of a party — family justice manager] , in the absence of a party.
(2) A judge at a family management conference may make any other orders or Directions as appropriate in addition to those referred to in Subrule (1) (c).
Division 2 — scheduling family management conference Scheduling family management conference If reply filed 37 Subject to rules 39 [requirements to be met before scheduling family management Conference in family justice registry] And 40
[requirements to be met before scheduling family management Conference in parenting education registry] , if an application about a family law matter and a reply have been Filed, the registry must provide the parties with information about The procedure for scheduling a family management conference.
Scheduling family management conference If no reply filed 38 Subject to rules 39 [requirements to be met before scheduling family management Conference in family justice registry] And 40
[requirements to be met before scheduling family management Conference in parenting education registry] , if a party has filed an application about a family law matter and (a) A reply has not been filed, (b) Based on the certificate of service, at least 30 days have passed Since the application about the family law matter was served, and (c) If applicable, the party has met the early resolution requirements Under rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] , The registry must provide that party with information about the Procedure for scheduling a family management conference.
[am. b.c. reg. 236/2020, sch. 2, s. 5.] Requirements to be met before scheduling family Management conference in family justice registry 39 (1) If a case is in a family justice registry, the registry may not Provide a party with information about the procedure for scheduling a Family management conference unless a party has filed a referral Request in form 21 [referral request] Following the completion of a needs assessment.
(2) The registry may not schedule a family management conference for a Case in a family justice registry unless a party has filed (a) A referral request in form 21 [referral request] Following the completion of a needs assessment, and (b) One of the following:
(i) A certificate of completion of a parenting education program; (ii) A notice of exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] .
Requirements to be met before scheduling family Management conference in parenting education registry 40 The registry may not schedule a family management conference for a Case in a parenting education registry unless at least one party has Filed
(a) A certificate of completion of a parenting education program, or (b) A notice of exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] .
Attendance for preparing for subsequent hearing 41 The parties may be required to attend a family management conference To prepare for a hearing, even if part 3 [application about family law matters] Does not apply to the parties, if one of the parties has applied for One of the following orders:
(a) Enforcing, changing or setting aside a filed determination of a Parenting coordinator; (b) Prohibiting the relocation of a child under section 69 [orders respecting relocation] Of the Family law act ; (c) Setting reasonable and necessarily incurred expenses under any of the Following sections of the Family law act :
(i) Section 61
[denial of parenting time or contact] ; (ii) Section 62
[when denial is not wrongful] ; (iii) Section 212
[orders respecting disclosure] ; (iv) Section 213
[enforcing orders respecting disclosure] ; (v) Section 228
[enforcing orders respecting conduct] ; (vi) Section 230
[enforcing orders generally] .
Intention to proceed — family management conferences 42 (1) A notice of intention to proceed with an application about a family Law matter must be filed in accordance with subrule (2) if (a) A party has filed an application about a family law matter, (b) There is no final order in respect of the application, and (c) More than one year has passed since the parties have taken any step Under these rules.
(2) If subrule (1) applies, before a party may proceed, (a) The party must file a notice of intention to proceed in form 2 [notice of intention to proceed] , serve it on each other party and file a certificate of service, and (b) The parties must participate in a family management conference.
Division 3 — attendance and procedural matters for family management Conference
Attendance at family management conference 43 If a family management conference is scheduled, all parties to an Application about a family law matter must attend the family Management conference.
Lawyer attendance at family management conference 44 A lawyer for each party may attend a family management conference with The party.
Family management conference may proceed 45 A family management conference may proceed without a party who (a) Does not file a reply, or (b) Does not attend.
Information presented in family management conferences 46 For the purposes of a family management conference, the judge or Family justice manager may require a party to provide the following For consideration:
(a) Information provided in an application about a family law matter, Reply and reply to counter application, if any; (b) Evidence provided in a financial statement; (c) Evidence given orally on oath or affirmation; (d) Affidavit evidence; (e) Submissions.
Judge or family justice manager 47 A family management conference may take place before a judge or a Family justice manager, as applicable, in accordance with Division 4
[family management conference proceedings] .
Division 4 — family management conference proceedings Case management orders 48 (1) A judge at a family management conference may, based on information Provided by or on behalf of the parties, make orders under Rule 62
[case management orders — judge] To ensure that a file is ready to proceed to the next step in the Process.
(2) A family justice manager at a family management conference may, based On information provided by or on behalf of the parties, make orders Under rule 63 [case management orders — family justice manager] To ensure that a file is ready to proceed to the next step in the Process.
Completion of requirements 49 A judge or a family justice manager at a family management conference May make an order that a party complete the following, as applicable:
(a) The early resolution requirements described in rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] ; (b) The family justice registry requirements described in rule 89 [requirements in family justice registries] ; (c) The parenting education program registry requirements described in Rule 100
[requirements in parenting education program registries] .
Interim orders 50 A judge or a family justice manager at a family management conference May make interim orders, including interim orders about one or more of The following:
(a) Parental responsibilities; (b) Parenting time; (c) Child support; (d) Contact with a child; (e) Guardianship of a child; (f) Spousal support; (g) Property division in respect of a companion animal.
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 6.] Interim orders for guardianship 51 (1) A judge or a family justice manager at a family management conference May make an interim order for guardianship under section 51 [orders respecting guardianship] Of the Family law act Without an affidavit in form 5 [guardianship affidavit] Having been filed if the judge or family justice manager is satisfied That it is in the best interests of the child that an interim order For guardianship be made before that affidavit is filed.
(2) An interim order for guardianship under subrule (1), unless renewed by A judge or family justice manager, (a) May not exceed a term of 90 days after the date the order is made, and (b) If no term is specified, expires 90 days after the date the order is Made.
Consent orders 52 (1) Subject to subrule (2), a judge or a family justice manager at a Family management conference may make orders with the consent of the Parties, including final orders about one or more of the following:
(a) Parental responsibilities; (b) Parenting time; (c) Child support; (d) Contact with a child; (e) Guardianship of a child; (f) Spousal support; (g) Property division in respect of a companion animal.
(2) A family justice manager at a family management conference may not Make a final order about guardianship of a child under Subrule (1).
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 6.] Conduct orders 53 (1) Subject to subrule (2), a judge or a family justice manager at a Family management conference may make any conduct order that may be Made under division 5 [orders respecting conduct] Of part 10 [court processes] Of the Family law act , including the following:
(a) Prohibiting a party from making an application respecting any matter Over which a parenting coordinator has authority to act under an Agreement or order, other than an application to change or set aside a Parenting coordinator determination, without permission of the judge, Under section 223 [orders respecting case management] Of the Family law act ; (b) Requiring the parties to participate in family dispute resolution, Under section 224 (1) (a) [orders respecting dispute resolution, counselling and programs] Of the Family law act ; (c) Requiring one or more of the parties, or a child, to attend Counselling, specified services or programs, under Section 224 (1) (b) of the Family law act ; (d) Allocating or requiring one party to pay the fees related to family Dispute resolution, counselling, specified services or programs, if The party is ordered to attend, under section 224 (2) of the Family law act ; (e) Setting restrictions or conditions respecting communications between Parties, including respecting when or how communications may be made, Under section 225 [orders restricting communications] Of the Family law act , unless it would be more appropriate for a protection order to be Made under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of that act; (f) Reporting to the court or to a person named by the judge at the time And in the manner specified, under section 227 [other orders respecting conduct] Of the Family law act .
(2) A family justice manager at a family management conference may not Make the following conduct orders under division 5 [orders respecting conduct] Of part 10 [court processes] Of the Family law act :
(a) An order under section 223 (1) (a) or (c) [orders respecting case management] Of the Family law act ; (b) An order under section 227 (a) [other orders respecting conduct] Of the Family law act , unless the order is made with the consent of the parties.
Orders made in the absence of a party — judge 54 (1) A judge at a family management conference may make an order, including A final order, in the absence of a party.
(2) To apply to change, suspend or cancel an order made under subrule (1), The absent party must file and serve on each other party the following At least 7 days before the date referred to in the application For the court appearance:
(a) An application for a case management order in form 10 [application for case management order] ; (b) Any supporting evidence or documents.
(3) A judge may change, suspend or cancel an order made in the absence of A party if the judge determines that (a) The absent party applied in accordance with subrule (2) within a Reasonable time for the change, suspension or cancellation of the Order, and (b) Either of the following apply:
(i) The absent party did not receive notice of the application or family Management conference; (ii) There is a good reason to change, suspend or cancel the order.
Orders made in the absence of a party — family justice manager 55 (1) A family justice manager at a family management conference may make an Order, other than a final order, in the absence of a party.
(2) To apply to change, suspend or cancel an order made under subrule (1), The absent party must file and serve on each other party the following At least 7 days before the date referred to in the application For the court appearance:
(a) An application for a case management order in form 10 [application for case management order] ; (b) Any supporting evidence or documents.
(3) A family justice manager may change, suspend or cancel an order made By a family justice manager in the absence of a party if the family Justice manager determines that (a) The absent party applied in accordance with subrule (2) within a Reasonable time for the change, suspension or cancellation of the Order, and (b) Either of the following apply:
(i) The absent party did not receive notice of the application or family Management conference; (ii) There is a good reason to change, suspend or cancel the order.
Directions or orders to attend 56 A judge or family justice manager at a family management conference May order or direct that a party (a) Participate in consensual dispute resolution, (b) Return for another family management conference, (c) Attend a family settlement conference, (d) Attend a trial preparation conference, or (e) Attend a hearing or trial.
Family justice manager may not change orders made by judges 57 A family justice manager at a family management conference may not Change, suspend or cancel an order made by a judge.
Division 5 — review of orders made by family justice managers Review of orders or directions made By family justice manager 58 (1) A party may, with permission of a judge, seek review of an order or Direction made by a family justice manager under these rules by filing The following within 14 days after the date that the order or Direction was made:
(a) An application for permission and review in form 9 [application for permission and review of family justice manager Order or direction] ; (b) A copy of the order or direction to be reviewed; (c) Any supporting evidence or documents.
(2) The party seeking review of an order or direction must serve the Documents filed under subrule (1) on each other party at least 7 days before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance.
(3) In granting permission for review of an order or direction, a judge May consider if (a) The order or direction conflicts with any other order or direction in Respect of the parties, (b) The order or direction is correct, and (c) The proposed review involves matters of sufficient importance.
(4) A judge who grants permission for review of an order or direction may Do the following:
(a) Impose any appropriate terms for the review; (b) Give directions about notice of the hearing of the review.
Part 5 — applying for other orders Division 1 — general Application of part 59 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Orders to which this part applies 60 The rules in this part apply to applications for the following:
(a) Case management orders; (b) Protection orders under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act ; (c) Orders about priority parenting matters; (d) Orders about relocation; (e) Orders by consent, without a hearing.
Division 2 — case management orders Case management orders at any time 61 Case management orders under this division may be made at any time.
Case management orders — judge 62 A judge may make orders to manage a case, including orders about the Following:
(a) Transferring a court file to another registry for all purposes or Specific purposes; (b) Relating to the management of a court record, file or document, Including access to a court file; (c) Correcting or amending a filed document, including the correction of a Name or date of birth; (d) Setting a specified period for the filing and exchanging of Information or evidence, including a financial statement in Form 4
[financial statement] ; (e) Specifying or requiring information that must be disclosed by a person Who is not a party to a case; (f) Requiring that a parentage test be taken under section 33 [parentage tests] Of the Family law act ; (g) Requiring access to information in accordance with section 242 [orders respecting searchable information] Of the Family law act ; (g.1) Authorizing an official of the court, in accordance with section 10 [authorization — information for the establishment or variation of a Support provision or the enforcement of a family provision] Of the Family orders and agreements enforcement assistance act (canada), to make an application under section 12 of that act for the Release of information; (h) Recognizing an extraprovincial order other than a support order; (i) Waiving or modifying any requirement related to service or giving Notice to a person, including allowing an alternative method for the Service of a document; (j) Waiving or modifying any other requirement under these rules, Including a time limit set under these rules or a time limit set by an Order or direction of a judge, even after the time limit has expired; (k) Allowing a person to attend a court appearance by another method of Attendance;
(l) Adjourning a court appearance; (m) Respecting the conduct of a party or management of a case, including Pre-trial and trial process and evidence disclosure, as set out in Rule 112 (1) (i) [what happens at trial preparation conference] Of these rules; (n) Relating to a report under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act , including requiring that a person who prepared the report attend a Trial as a witness; (o) Adding or removing a party to a case, including leave to intervene Under section 204 (2) [intervention by attorney general or other person] Of the Family law act ; (p) Respecting the appointment of a lawyer to represent (i) The interests of a child, or (ii) A party; (q) Settling or correcting the terms of an order made under these rules; (r) Cancelling a subpoena.
[am. b.c. regs. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 3; 219/2023, sch. 2, s. 1.] Case management orders — family justice manager 63 (1) A family justice manager may make one or more case management orders That may be made by a judge under the following rules:
(a) Rule 62 (a) to (i); (b) Rule 62 (o) or (p), provided that the order is made (i) At least 60 days before the date set for the hearing or trial, if no Trial preparation conference is scheduled, or (ii) Before the trial preparation conference, if a trial preparation Conference is scheduled.
(2) A family justice manager may make one or more of the following case Management orders:
(a) Waiving or modifying any requirement under parts 1 [purpose and interpretation] To 4
[family management conferences] That is within the jurisdiction of a family justice manager, including Any related time limit set by an order or direction of a family Justice manager, even after the time limit has expired; (b) Allowing a person to attend a court appearance before a family justice Manager by another method of attendance; (c) Adjourning a court appearance, including adjourning a hearing or trial Before the date set for the hearing or trial; (d) Respecting the conduct of a party or management of a case, other than Orders relating to pre-trial and trial processes and evidence Disclosure, as set out in rule 112 (1) (i) [what happens at trial preparation conference] Of these rules; (e) Relating to a report under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act , other than requiring that a person who prepared the report attend a Trial as a witness; (f) Settling or correcting the terms of an order made by a family justice Manager under these rules.
[am. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 4.] Applying for case management orders 64 A party applying for a case management order under rule 62 or 63 must File and serve on each other party and every other person who may be Directly affected by the case management order the following, at Least 7 days before the date referred to in the application for The court appearance:
(a) An application for a case management order in form 10 [application for case management order] ; (b) Any supporting evidence or documents.
Case management orders — without notice or attendance 65 (1) A party may apply for the case management orders described in rules 62 (g) to (k) [case management orders — judge] And 63 (2) (a) or (b) [case management orders — family justice manager] Without notice to any other parties or without attending before the Court by filing an application for case management order without Notice or attendance in form 11 [application for case management order without notice or attendance] .
(2) A judge or family justice manager considering an application under This rule for a case management order without notice or attendance may Do any of the following:
(a) Approve and sign the order without the attendance of the parties; (b) Give directions to obtain further information or evidence, including a Direction requiring that the parties attend court; (c) Require that notice be given to any other parties; (d) Reject the application with reasons.
(3) If a case management order is made without notice under this rule, the Party who applied for the order must serve on each other party the Following:
(a) The case management order that is made; (b) The application for the case management order without notice or Attendance;
(c) Any supporting evidence or documents.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 5.] Case management order — Family orders and agreements enforcement assistance act (canada) 65.1 (1) Despite rule 61, a case management order described in rule 62 (g.1) Must be made only if a party files an application in form 10 [application for case management order] Or 11
[application for case management order without notice or attendance] That meets the requirements of section 8 or 9 of the Family orders and agreements enforcement assistance act (canada), as the case may be.
(2) For certainty, if the application referred to in subrule (1) is made By an individual without notice, the application must be accompanied By the results of a recent criminal record check in respect of the Individual and an affidavit that meets the requirements of section 8 (1) (a), (2) and (3) (b) or 9 (1) (a), (2) and (3) (b) of that act, as The case may be.
(3) On application for a case management order described in rule 62 (g.1), The court may consider the following:
(a) In the case of an application made by an individual without notice, Whether or not to make an order under section 11 of the Family orders and agreements enforcement assistance act (canada), requiring that the federal minister not send to the person Referred to in section 8 (2) (a) or 9 (2) (a) of that act, as the case May be, a copy of the order that authorizes the making of the Application and a notice informing the person that information will be Released;
(b) In the case of an application that is in relation to the establishment Or variation of a support provision or the enforcement of a family Provision, as those terms are defined in the Family orders and agreements enforcement assistance act (canada), (i) Whether or not to authorize, without further order of the court, the Disclosure under section 13 (3) of that act of any information Received by the court as a result of the order to the parties or any Other person, service or body or official of the court that it Considers appropriate, and (ii) If disclosure of information is authorized, whether or not to make an Order under section 13 (3) of that act to protect the confidentiality Of the information.
(4) Despite rule 65 (3), in the case of an application for a case Management order described in rule 62 (g.1) that is made by an Individual without notice, the court may order that the requirement Under rule 65 (3) to serve the materials referred to in that provision Does not apply.
[en. b.c. reg. 219/2023, sch. 2, s. 2.] Division 3 — protection orders Priority — protection orders 66 If a party is applying for both an order about a protection order Under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act And an order about a family law matter, the application for the order About the protection order may be made before complying with the Following, as applicable:
(a) The early resolution requirements under rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] Of these rules; (b) The family justice registry requirements under rule 89 [requirements in family justice registries] Of these rules; (c) The parenting education program registry requirements under rule 100 [requirements in parenting education program registries] Of these rules.
Applying for Family law act Protection orders or to Change or terminate protection orders — without notice 67 (1) A person who is applying for an order about the following, without Notice, must file an application about a protection order in Form 12
[application about a protection order] And any supporting evidence or documents:
(a) A protection order under section 183 [orders respecting protection] Of the Family law act ; (b) To change a term or condition of, or to terminate, a protection order Under section 187 [changing or terminating orders respecting protection] Of the Family law act .
(2) A person who is applying for an order about a protection order under Subrule (1) must include with the application a statement of the Reasons why the application is being made without notice.
Applying for Family law act Protection orders or to Change or terminate protection orders — with notice 68 (1) A person who is applying for an order about the following must file an Application about a protection order in form  12 [application about a protection order] And any supporting evidence or documents:
(a) A protection order under section 183 [orders respecting protection] Of the Family law act ; (b) To change a term or condition of, or to terminate, a protection order Under section 187 [changing or terminating orders respecting protection] Of the Family law act .
(2) If a person is applying for an order about a protection order under Subrule (1), the person must ensure the personal service of the Application and supporting evidence or documents by having an adult Who is not a party leave a copy of the application and supporting Evidence or documents with the other party at least 7 days before The date referred to in the application for the court appearance.
(3) The adult who serves the application under subrule (2) must complete a Certificate of service in form 7 [certificate of service] And provide the certificate to the person applying for an order about A protection order.
Evidence at protection order hearing 69 Evidence at a hearing about a protection order under rule 67 [applying for family law act protection orders or to change or Terminate protection orders — without notice] Or 68
[applying for family law act protection orders or to change or Terminate protection orders — with notice] May be provided (a) Orally on oath or affirmation, or (b) By affidavit.
Form of orders 70 A protection order made under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act Must be in form 13 [protection order] Of these rules and does not need to be signed by the parties or their Lawyers.
Judge to make new protection order 71 If a judge changes a term or condition of an existing protection Order, including an extension of the protection order, the judge must Terminate the existing protection order and make a new protection Order.
What happens if protection order is made or changed 72 (1) If a judge makes or changes a protection order in accordance with this Division, a clerk must, as soon as possible, (a) Prepare the protection order, unless the judge directs otherwise, (b) Provide a copy of the protection order to the protection order Registry,
(c) Arrange service or provide a copy of the protection order on or to the Party against whom the protection order was made or changed, as Follows:
(i) If that party is present when the order is made or changed, provide The party with the protection order; (ii) If that party is not present when the order is made or changed, Arrange for the personal service of the protection order on that party Within british columbia; (iii) If the registry is unable to arrange service under subparagraph (ii) Or that party is evading service, notify the person who obtained the Order and that person would subsequently be responsible for service, And
(d) Provide a copy of the protection order to the person who applied for The order.
(2) If the party against whom a protection order is made or changed is not Present when the order is made or changed, the party who obtained the Order must provide the registry with information about the location of The party against whom the order is made or changed for the purposes Of the registry arranging service under Subrule (1) (c) (ii).
What happens if protection order is terminated 73 If a judge terminates a protection order, a clerk must, as soon as Possible,
(a) Prepare the order terminating a protection order in form 14 [order terminating a protection order] , unless the judge directs otherwise, (b) Provide a copy of the termination order to the protection order Registry, and (c) Provide a copy of the termination order to the parties.
No limitation on protection order applications 74 A person may make subsequent applications about protection orders, Including in the following circumstances:
(a) An earlier application for a protection order was denied or dismissed; (b) The protection order has expired; (c) The protection order has been changed or terminated.
Division 4 — orders about priority parenting matters Priority — priority parenting matters 75 If a party is applying for both an order about a priority parenting Matter and an order about a family law matter, the application for the Order about the priority parenting matter may be made before complying With the following, as applicable:
(a) The early resolution requirements under rule 10 [early resolution requirements must be met before application filed] ; (b) The family justice registry requirements under rule 89 [requirements in family justice registries] ; (c) The parenting education program registry requirements under Rule 100
[requirements in parenting education program registries] .
Applying for orders about priority parenting matters 76 Subject to rule 78 [priority parenting matters — without notice] , a party who is applying for, or applying to change a term or Condition of or to cancel, an order about a priority parenting matter Must file and serve on each other party (a) The application for an order about a priority parenting matter in Form 15
[application about priority parenting matter] , and (b) Any supporting evidence or documents.
Priority parenting matters — notifying other party 77 (1) Subject to rule 78 [priority parenting matters — without notice] , if a party is applying for an order about a priority parenting Matter, the party must ensure that the application and supporting Evidence or documents are served as follows:
(a) If there is an address, an email address or a fax number provided for The address for service on the court file for the party to be served, There may be service (i) By leaving the documents at the party's address for service, (ii) By mailing the documents by ordinary mail to the party's address for Service,
(iii) By emailing the documents to the party's email address, or (iv) By faxing the documents to the party's fax number; (b) If there is no address for service on the court file for the party to Be served, there may be personal service (i) By having an adult who is not a party leave the documents with the Party to be served, or (ii) As otherwise ordered for the service of the application and supporting Evidence or documents.
(2) An application and supporting evidence or documents must be served (a) At least 7 days before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance, or (b) If a period shorter than 7 days is required, in accordance with an Order from the court.
(3) An adult who serves documents under subrule (1) must complete a Certificate of service in form 7 [certificate of service] And provide it to the person applying for an order about a priority Parenting matter.
Notice to director 77.1 If a party is applying for an order described in paragraph (h) of the Definition of "priority parenting matter", the party must serve the Director under the Child, family and community service act With a copy of the application.
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 5.] Priority parenting matters — without notice 78 (1) A party may apply for an order to waive or modify the requirement Under rule 77 [priority parenting matters — notifying other party] To serve another party by filing form 11 [application for case management order without notice or attendance] .
(2) If a judge determines that notice of an application made under rule 76 [applying for orders about priority parenting matters] Should be given to a party, the judge may make any directions the Judge considers appropriate, including (a) The date for the hearing, (b) The amount of notice, and (c) How notice must be given.
Presenting evidence — priority parenting matters 79 Evidence at a hearing about a priority parenting matter under rule 76 [applying for orders about priority parenting matters] May be provided (a) Orally on oath or affirmation, or (b) By affidavit.
Division 5 — orders about relocation Applying for orders about relocation 80 (1) This rule applies if (a) A party is applying for an order under section 69 [orders respecting relocation] Of the Family law act Prohibiting the relocation of a child, and (b) A written agreement or order referred to in section 65 [definition and application] Of the Family law act Respecting parenting arrangements or contact with the child applies to The child.
(2) A party who is applying for an order under section 69 [orders respecting relocation] Of the Family law act Prohibiting the relocation of a child must file and serve the Following on each other party, at least 7 days before the date Referred to in the application for the court appearance:
(a) An application for an order prohibiting the relocation of a child in Form 16
[application for order prohibiting the relocation of a child] ; (b) A copy of the applicable written agreement or order referred to in Section 65
[definition and application] Of the Family law act ; (c) A copy of, or the details about, the notice of relocation described in Section 66
[notice of relocation] Of the Family law act .
(3) For certainty, this rule does not apply if (a) There is no written agreement or order respecting parenting Arrangements that applies in respect of a child, and (b) A party is seeking an order under section 46 [changes to child's residence if no agreement order] Of the Family law act In respect of the child.
Division 6 — consent orders Applying for consent orders about family law matters 81 The parties who are applying for an order about a family law matter by Consent must file the following:
(a) An application for a consent order in form 17 [application for a family law matter consent order] ; (b) A draft consent order in form 18 [consent order] Signed by the parties or their lawyers; (c) Any applicable additional documents, as described in (i) Rule 25
[additional requirements when applying for certain orders] , and (ii) Rule 26
[additional documents required in relation to orders about Guardianship]
, in accordance with that rule.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 6.] Consideration of consent orders 82 A judge considering an application for a family law matter consent Order may do the following:
(a) Approve and sign the consent order without the parties' attendance at Court;
(b) Give directions to obtain further information or evidence, including To require that the parties attend court; (c) Make changes to the draft consent order and, if the parties consent to The changes, require that the parties attend the registry to review And sign the changes; (d) Reject the application with reasons.
Applying for consent orders about case management 83 (1) The parties applying for a consent order about a case management order Must file an application for a case management order in form 10 [application for case management order] And must specify in that form whether the parties are requesting a Court appearance.
(2) If the parties specify in form 10 that they are not requesting a court Appearance, the parties must file a draft consent order in Form 18
[consent order] Signed by the parties or their lawyers.
(3) A judge or family justice manager considering an application for a Consent order about a case management order may do the following:
(a) Approve and sign the consent order without the parties' attendance at Court;
(b) Give directions to obtain further information or evidence, including To require that the parties attend court; (c) Make changes to the draft consent order and, if the parties consent to The changes, require that the parties attend the registry to review And sign the changes; (d) Reject the application with reasons.
General process for consent orders 84 (1) If an application is made for a consent order without the attendance Of the parties at court, a clerk must place the application, draft Consent order and supporting documents before a judge, or a family Justice manager if the consent order is within the jurisdiction of the Family justice manager.
(2) If a direction is given under rule 82 (b) or (c) [consideration of consent orders] Or 83 (3) (b) or (c) [applying for consent orders about case management] , the parties and any other person specified by the judge or family Justice manager must be notified by the clerk and the notification Must include the date, time and place for the court appearance and any Other information in the direction.
(3) If a consent order is made, a clerk must provide a filed copy of the Consent order to the parties or their lawyers.
(4) Parties who have applied for a consent order and have had their Application rejected must include a copy of the reasons for rejection With subsequent related applications for consent orders.
Consent orders at any time 85 The parties may consent to an order at any time during a court Appearance, providing any evidence that the judge or family justice Manager may require.
Division 7 — replying to applications for other orders Replying to applications 86 (1) If a party is served with an application under this part and chooses To reply, the party (a) Must attend court on the date and time referred to in the application For the court appearance, and (b) May file a written response in reply to the application in form 19 [written response to application] .
(2) If a party chooses to file a written response in reply under subrule (1) (b), the party must file and serve the written response on each Other party before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance.
Part 6 — family justice registries Application of part 87 The rules set out in this part apply in the following family justice Registries, as set out in rule 6 (b) [parts that apply in certain registries] :
(a) Kelowna;
(b) Nanaimo;
(c) Vancouver (robson square).
[en. b.c. reg. 236/2020, sch. 2, s. 6.] Definition
88 In this part, "certificate of completion" Means a certificate issued on behalf of the ministry of attorney General attesting that the person named has completed a parenting Education program.
Requirements in family justice registries 89 (1) Before attending a family management conference under part 4 [family management conferences] , parties seeking resolution of a family law matter in a family Justice registry must meet the requirements described in Subrule (2).
(2) Unless otherwise provided in these rules, each party must (a) Participate in a needs assessment under rule 93 [participating in needs assessment in family justice registries] , and (b) Complete a parenting education program under rule 94 [completing parenting education program in family justice Registries]
.
Exceptions to family justice registry requirements 90 (1) The family justice registry requirements described in rule 89 (2) (a) Do not apply if the application about a family law matter is only for Support and that party has assigned support rights to the government Under the Employment and assistance act Or the Employment and assistance for persons with disabilities act , (b) Cease to apply if the court file for the case is transferred under Rule 62
[case management orders — judge] Or 63
[case management orders — family justice manager] To a registry that is not a family justice registry, and (c) Are not required if a party is only applying for one or more orders Under part 5 [applying for other orders] Or part 10 [enforcement] .
(2) For certainty, if a party applies for an order about a family law Matter and (a) An order about a protection order under part 9 [protection from family violence] Of the Family law act , or (b) A priority parenting matter, The party may apply for the order about the protection order or the Priority parenting matter before complying with the family justice Requirements described in rule 89 (2).
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 7.] Certain parties exempt from requirements 91 A party who is the government, a minister or a public officer is not Required to meet the requirements that apply to a party under this Part.
First referral by clerk 92 After a party files an application about a family law matter or a Reply to an application about a family law matter, a clerk must refer The parties to a needs assessor for a needs assessment under Rule 93
[participating in needs assessment in family justice registries] .
Participating in needs assessment in family justice registries 93 Unless otherwise provided in these rules, each party must participate Individually in a needs assessment conducted by a needs assessor for The following:
(a) Assistance with identifying legal and non-legal needs; (b) Information about resolving issues, including (i) How to resolve family law matters and other issues out of court, and (ii) Next steps in the court process; (c) Provision of (i) A referral to an appropriate parenting education program, or (ii) An exemption from a parenting education program under part 7 [parenting education program registries] ; (d) Referrals to other resources, including where and how (i) To seek legal advice, (ii) To access legal information, (iii) To access resources for issues that are not legal in nature, and (iv) To access resources for children dealing with family changes; (e) Referrals to consensual dispute resolution or to another family Dispute resolution professional, if appropriate; (f) Assessment of any risk of family violence; (g) Referrals to other resources for individuals and families experiencing Or concerned about family violence.
Completing parenting education program in family justice registries 94 (1) Each party must complete a parenting education program unless a local Manager of the family justice services division of the ministry of Attorney general, or a designate of the local manager, exempts that Party because (a) The party cannot access an online version, (b) The parenting education program is not offered in a language in which The party is fluent, (c) The party cannot complete an online version due to literacy Challenges,
(d) The party cannot complete the parenting education program due to a Serious medical condition, or (e) A consent order is filed that resolves all issues involving children.
(2) To request an exemption from the requirement under subrule (1), a Party must submit a request for exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] To the family justice services division of the ministry of attorney General for approval.
(3) The requirement under subrule (1) to complete a parenting education Program does not apply if (a) The party has already completed the parenting education program in the 2 years before the date of the family management conference, (b) The family law matter is related only to spousal support, (b.1) The family law matter is related only to property division in respect Of a companion animal, (b.2) The family law matter is related to both spousal support and property Division in respect of a companion animal, or (c) Every child involved in the family law matter has reached 19 years of age.
(4) A party may demonstrate completion of or exemption from the parenting Education program by filing one of the following, as applicable:
(a) A certificate of completion; (b) A notice of exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] .
[am. b.c. regs. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 8; 214/2023, s. 7.] Referral to judge after demonstrating completion of Or exemption from parenting education program 95 At any time after having met the family justice registry requirements Described in rule 89 (2) [requirements in family justice registries] , a party may request to attend a family management conference on one Or more issues in the case by filing a referral request in Form 21
[referral request] .
Scheduling family management conferences 96 After the parties have filed a referral request in form 21 [referral request] And a party has demonstrated completion or exemption of a parenting Education program, the registry must provide the parties with Information about the procedure for scheduling a family management Conference under part 4 [family management conferences] .
Part 7 — parenting education program registries Application of part 97 The rules set out in this part apply to all registries other than (a) Early resolution registries, and (b) Family justice registries.
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 6.] Transition — parenting education program registries 97.1 The rules set out in this part do not apply in respect of an Application about a family law matter if (a) The application was filed before january 4, 2022, and (b) The registry in which the application was filed was not a parenting Education program registry at the time of filing.
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 7.] Purpose
98 The purpose of this part is to promote the best interests of children By providing a parenting education program to persons who are in a Dispute over child-related issues.
Definition
99 In this part, "certificate of completion" Means a certificate issued on behalf of the ministry of attorney General attesting that the person named has completed a parenting Education program.
Requirements in parenting education program registries 100 (1) Before attending a family management conference about an application About a family law matter, each party must complete a parenting Education program unless a local manager of the family justice Services division of the ministry of attorney general, or a designate Of the local manager, exempts that party because (a) The party cannot access an online version, (b) The parenting education program is not offered in a language in which The party is fluent, (c) The party cannot complete an online version due to literacy Challenges,
(d) The party cannot complete the parenting education program due to a Serious medical condition, or (e) A consent order is filed that resolves all issues involving children.
(2) To request an exemption from the requirement under subrule (1), a Party must submit a request for exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] To the family justice services division of the ministry of attorney General for approval.
(3) The requirement under subrule (1) to complete a parenting education Program does not apply if (a) The party has already completed the parenting education program in the 2 years before the date of the family management conference, (b) The application about a family law matter is only for child support And that party has assigned child support rights to the government Under the Employment and assistance act Or the Employment and assistance for persons with disabilities act , (c) The family law matter is related only to spousal support, (c.1) The family law matter is related only to property division in respect Of a companion animal, (c.2) The family law matter is related to both spousal support and property Division in respect of a companion animal, or (d) Every child involved in the family law matter has reached 19 years of age.
[am. b.c. regs. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 9; 214/2023, s. 8.] Certain parties exempt from parenting Education program registry requirements 101 A party who is the government, a minister or a public officer is not Required to meet the requirements that apply to a party under this Part.
Demonstrating exemption or completion 102 (1) A party who is exempted under rule 100 [requirements in parenting education program registries] Must file a notice of exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] Before attending a family management conference.
(2) A party who completes a parenting education program must file a Certificate of completion before attending a family management Conference.
Requirements to be met before scheduling 103 The registry may schedule a family management conference only after at Least one party has filed, as applicable, (a) A certificate of completion, or (b) A notice of exemption in form 20 [notice of exemption from parenting education program] .
Part 8 — family settlement conferences Application of part 104 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Judge to conduct family settlement conference 105 A family settlement conference must be conducted by a judge.
Different judge to conduct family settlement conference 106 A judge who conducts a family settlement conference may conduct a Trial in respect of the same issues only if no other judge is Reasonably available to conduct the trial.
Attendance at family settlement conference 107 (1) If directed or ordered to attend a family settlement conference, the Parties must attend and may be accompanied by a lawyer.
(2) On request of a party, the judge conducting a family settlement Conference may allow a person who is not a party to attend the family Settlement conference.
What happens at family settlement conference 108 (1) The purpose of a family settlement conference is to provide a process In which a judge helps the parties try to resolve any issues in Dispute by agreement.
(2) At a family settlement conference, the judge may do one or more of the Following:
(a) Mediate any issues in disputes; (b) Make any order with the consent of the parties; (c) Make a conduct order under division 5 [orders respecting conduct] Of part 10 [court processes] Of the Family law act ; (d) Adjourn the family settlement conference for a period or generally for Any purpose, including to allow the parties to comply with an order Made under paragraph (b); (e) Direct or order the parties (i) To participate in consensual dispute resolution, (ii) To attend a further family settlement conference, (iii) To attend a trial preparation conference, or (iv) To attend a court appearance; (f) Make an order for disclosure of information, including financial Information, that may assist readiness for a hearing or trial; (g) Give a non-binding opinion on the probable outcome of a hearing or Trial.
(3) At a family settlement conference, if evidence is not required, the Judge may make any order that may be made at a family management Conference
(a) That may assist the parties to resolve any issues in dispute by Agreement, or (b) That may assist in readiness for a hearing or trial.
(4) A judge at a family settlement conference may make an order under Subrule (3) in the absence of a party.
Part 9 — trials Division 1 — general Application of part 109 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Division 2 — trial readiness statement Trial readiness statement 110 Each party must file and serve a trial readiness statement in form 22 [trial readiness statement] (a) At least 7 days before the date of the trial preparation conference if A trial preparation conference is scheduled, or (b) As ordered by the court.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 10.] Division 3 — trial preparation conferences Who must attend trial preparation conference 111 (1) When directed or ordered to attend a trial preparation conference, the Parties or their lawyers, if any, must attend the trial preparation Conference in accordance with this rule.
(2) If a party is not represented by a lawyer, the party must attend the Trial preparation conference.
(3) If a party is represented by a lawyer, the party must (a) Attend the trial preparation conference with the lawyer, or (b) Be available for consultation, if the lawyer attends without the Party.
(4) If a child will be represented by a lawyer at a trial, the lawyer must Attend the trial preparation conference.
What happens at trial preparation conference 112 (1) A judge at a trial preparation conference may make any order or give Any direction that the judge considers appropriate, including orders And direction about the following:
(a) The time required for the trial and the trial date; (b) The evidence to be required at the trial; (c) The procedure to be followed at the trial; (d) How views of a child will be heard; (e) Expert witnesses, including persons who are appointed to make Assessments under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act ; (f) The filing and exchange of lists of documents; (g) If any applications relating to the case have not yet been heard, Requiring that those applications be heard (i) At the trial preparation conference, or (ii) Within a period, or by a date, specified by the judge; (h) Requiring that the parties file a statement of agreed facts within a Period, or by a date, specified by the judge; (i) Requiring that a party (i) Disclose information, including financial information, that may assist In readiness for trial, (ii) Allow inspection or copying of, or bring to trial, specified records That are or have been in the party's possession, power or control, (iii) Submit evidence by affidavit at the trial in accordance with any Specific directions given by the judge, or (iv) Serve on each other party a written summary of the proposed evidence Of a witness within a period, or by a date, specified by the judge; (j) Any other directions the judge considers appropriate to expedite the Trial.
(2) A judge may determine at a trial preparation conference whether the Trial will include any of the following alternative trial processes:
(a) The setting of time for the trial or parts of the trial; (b) The type of evidence to be introduced; (c) The number of witnesses; (d) If family violence is an issue, alternative ways to examine and Cross-examine parties.
(3) The judge at a trial preparation conference may, if necessary, adjourn The trial.
Trial judge and trial preparation conference 113 The judge who conducts the trial preparation conference is to conduct The trial, if possible.
[en. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 11.] Division 4 — trial processes Adjourning trial date 114 (1) A party may apply to adjourn a trial under rule 62 [case management orders — judge] As follows:
(a) If the application is not with the consent of the parties, more than 45 days before the scheduled trial date; (b) If the application is with the consent of the parties, more than 7 days before the scheduled trial date; (c) If special circumstances apply, as soon as is practicable before the Scheduled trial date.
(2) Without an application by a party, the judge may adjourn a trial at Any time.
Child's evidence 115 A trial judge may admit a child's evidence about a family law dispute, Including hearsay evidence, in accordance with section 202 [court may decide how child's evidence is received] Of the Family law act , in the manner that the trial judge considers appropriate.
Reports under section 211 of Family law act 116 If a report is prepared under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act , the report must (a) Include the name and address for service of the person who prepared The report, (b) Include the person's qualifications, employment and educational Experience, and (c) Unless otherwise ordered, be filed and served on all the parties at Least 30 days before the date set for the trial.
Applications related to reports under Section 211 of Family law act 117 (1) If an application under rule 62 [case management orders — judge] Is made for an order that a person who prepared a report under Section 211
[orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act Attend a trial, that person must be served with the application and Supporting documents.
(2) A person who prepared a report under section 211 of the Family law act May
(a) Attend a conference or hearing, (b) File submissions on availability for a trial, or (c) File any other information relevant to that person's attendance To assist with the trial judge's consideration of the application Described in subrule (1).
(3) If a person who prepared a report under section 211 of the Family law act Was directed under an order to attend a trial and the trial judge Determines that it was unnecessary to call that person as a witness, The trial judge may order the party who required that person to attend To pay to the other party the reasonable costs associated with that Person's attendance.
Attendance of witnesses 118 (1) A party who requires that a witness attend a hearing or trial must (a) Complete a subpoena in form 23 [subpoena to witness] , (b) Serve the subpoena by personal service on the witness by having an Adult leave the subpoena with the witness at least 7 days before The witness is required to attend the hearing or trial, and (c) When the subpoena is served, provide reasonable estimated travelling Expenses to the witness.
(2) A witness who is served with a subpoena must (a) Attend the hearing or trial on the date and at the time and place Stated on the subpoena, and (b) Bring any records and other things required by the subpoena.
(3) A witness who is served with a subpoena may, with 2 days' notice to Each party, apply under rule 64 [applying for case management orders] To a judge for a case management order cancelling the subpoena if the Witness believes that (a) Attendance as a witness should not be required, or (b) It would be a hardship to attend the hearing or trial as required by The subpoena.
(4) An application under subrule (3) must be considered by the trial Judge, if possible.
(5) A judge who cancels a subpoena may make any order or give any Directions that the judge considers necessary and advisable in the Circumstances, including an order adjourning the hearing or trial.
If witness does not comply with subpoena 119 (1) A trial judge may issue a warrant in form 24 [warrant for arrest after subpoena] For the arrest of a witness who does not attend court as required by a Subpoena if the trial judge is satisfied that (a) The subpoena was served on the witness, (b) Reasonable travelling expenses were provided to the witness, and (c) The witness can offer relevant evidence that should be considered in Making a decision about one or more of the issues in dispute.
(2) A warrant issued under subrule (1) remains in force until (a) The witness named in the warrant attends court, whether voluntarily or Under the warrant, or (b) The warrant is cancelled.
(3) A witness who is arrested under a warrant issued under subrule (1) Must, as soon as possible, be brought before the trial judge who Issued the warrant.
(4) If a trial judge determines that a witness's evidence is still Required, the judge may (a) Release the witness on giving the witness a release in form 25 [release from custody] Requiring the witness to attend court on the date and at the time and Place stated in the release, or (b) Order a peace officer to detain the witness in custody until the Witness's presence is no longer required.
(5) If it is not possible for the witness referred to in subrule (3) to be Brought before the trial judge who issued a warrant under Subrule (1) in a timely manner, the witness must be brought Before another judge and that judge may (a) Release the witness on giving the witness a release in form 25 Requiring the witness to attend court before the trial judge on the Date and at the time and place stated in the release, or (b) Order a peace officer to detain the witness in custody until it is Possible for the witness to attend court before the trial judge.
Requirements for expert's report 120 (1) An expert's report that is to be introduced as evidence at a trial Must be signed by the expert and must include the following:
(a) The expert's name, address and area of expertise; (b) The expert's qualifications, employment and educational experience in The expert's area of expertise; (c) The instructions provided to the expert about the case; (d) The nature of the opinion being sought and the issues in the case to Which the opinion relates; (e) The expert's opinion respecting those issues; (f) The expert's reasons for the opinion, including (i) A description of the factual assumptions on which the opinion is Based,
(ii) A description of any research conducted by the expert that led to the Formation of the opinion, and (iii) A list of the documents, if any, relied on by the expert in forming The opinion.
(2) A party may call an expert to provide opinion evidence only if the Party serves a written summary of the expert's evidence on each other Party
(a) At least 60 days before the expert is to give evidence, or (b) Within a shorter period if a trial judge shortens the time Requirement.
(3) A party may introduce a report stating the opinions of an expert only If the party serves a copy of the report on each other party (a) At least 60 days before the report is introduced, or (b) Within a shorter period if a trial judge shortens the time Requirement.
(4) An expert report may be introduced in court without proof of the Expert's signature.
(5) If a party who receives another party's expert report intends to call The expert to attend the trial for cross-examination, the party must, At least 30 days before the trial date, serve on each other party A notice requiring the expert to attend the trial for Cross-examination.
(6) If a trial judge determines that it was not necessary to require a Party's expert to attend, the trial judge may order the party who Required the expert to attend to pay to the other party the reasonable Costs associated with that expert's attendance.
(7) When giving an opinion to the court under these rules, an expert has a Duty to assist the court and is not to be an advocate for any party, Whether the expert is appointed by the court or is retained by a Party.
(8) This rule does not apply to a report under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act Referred to in rule 116 [reports under section 211 of family law act] Of these rules.
Obtaining guardianship orders at trial — affidavit 121 (1) If there is a material change in any of the information contained in a Party's affidavit relating to guardianship of a child under section 51 [orders respecting guardianship] Of the Family law act Between the date the affidavit was sworn and the date of the trial, The party must ensure that the affidavit is current as of the date of The trial.
(2) If a material change referred to in subrule (1) relates to information Contained in any record check attached to an affidavit, the party must (a) Obtain a new record check, (b) File a new affidavit, attaching the new record check, and (c) Serve a copy of the filed affidavit, with the new record check, on Each of the parties and every other person who may be affected by the Orders sought, as soon as is practicable before the scheduled trial Date.
(3) If a material change referred to in subrule (1) relates to information That is not contained in a record check attached to an affidavit, the Party must (a) File a new affidavit, describing the material change, and (b) Serve a copy of the filed affidavit on each of the parties and every Other person who may be affected by the orders sought, as soon as is Practicable before the scheduled trial date.
Judge may refer calculation of child support 122 At any time during a trial, a judge may refer calculation of child Support to a person designated by the attorney general to provide such Assistance and require that the calculation be referred back to the Judge.
Judge who starts trial must continue 123 (1) A judge who has heard any evidence at a trial must finish the trial, Unless the judge dies or is otherwise unable to act.
(2) If a judge who has begun to hear evidence at a trial dies or is Otherwise unable to act, (a) The trial must be heard by another judge, and (b) The other judge may (i) Start the trial again and re-hear all the evidence, or (ii) With the consent of the parties, continue the trial at the point at Which the trial had stopped.
(3) A judge who continues a hearing under subrule (2) (b) (ii) may give Directions for hearing evidence as the judge considers necessary.
Division 5 — informal trial pilot project rules Informal trial pilot project registry 123.1 The rules set out in this division apply in the kamloops informal Trial pilot project registry, as set out in rule 6 (d) [parts that apply in certain registries] .
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 2, s. 2.] Purpose of informal trial 124 The purpose of an informal trial is to provide a trial process in Which the trial judge is able to take a facilitative role to direct, Control and manage the conduct of the trial.
Availability of informal trial 125 The court may refer parties to an informal trial if (a) The parties consent to the informal trial, and (b) The judge conducting the trial agrees that the informal trial is Appropriate.
Preliminary matters for informal trial 126 At least 7 days before the first day of an informal trial hearing, Each party must file and exchange with each other party (a) A written consent, and (b) Any information required by the court.
Informal trial process 127 (1) At an informal trial, (a) The trial judge must (i) Explain the informal trial process to the parties and the lawyers for The parties, if any, and (ii) Confirm that the parties (a) Have elected an informal trial with knowledge and understanding of the Process, and (b) Have not been threatened to agree to an informal trial or been Promised anything in exchange for agreeing to an informal trial, (b) The parties must swear or affirm that (i) The information provided under rule 126 [preliminary matters for informal trial] , and (ii) Any statements made during the informal trial Are true and may be subsequently used as evidence during the informal Trial and trial, (c) The trial judge may request that each party explain the issues in Dispute and, during the explanation of each party, the trial judge may Inquire about any relevant issue or matter, and (d) At the request of a party or on the trial judge's own initiative, the Trial judge may allow a witness other than a party to give evidence, Including a report under section 211 [orders respecting reports] Of the Family law act Or expert evidence.
(2) A trial judge at an informal trial may (a) Identify the issues to be resolved, (b) Make directions or orders regarding the type and form of evidence to Be provided and any witnesses needed at trial, (c) Make any orders that are required before trial, including (i) A protection order, (ii) Any order that may be made at a family management conference, family Settlement conference or trial preparation conference, and (iii) A final order in respect of a facilitated resolution under Rule 128 (2)
[facilitated resolution] , and (d) Make any other interim or final order.
(3) A trial judge at an informal trial (a) May admit any evidence that is relevant, material and reliable, even If the evidence might be inadmissible under strict rules of evidence, And
(b) Must determine the appropriate weight to be given to any particular Evidence.
Facilitated resolution 128 (1) During the informal trial, the trial judge may attempt to facilitate a Resolution of some or all of the issues.
(2) If the parties reach a facilitated agreement during the informal Trial, the trial judge may make a final order on the terms agreed to By the parties.
Continuation of hearing in informal trial 129 The continuation of an informal trial must be conducted in accordance With any directions made by the trial judge.
Court may direct trial 130 (1) If a trial judge determines at any time before or during an informal Trial that the informal trial is inappropriate, the trial judge may Direct that a proceeding continue under division 4 [trial processes] .
(2) If a trial judge makes a direction under subrule (1), (a) The trial judge must determine the use to be made of any evidence Already entered at the informal trial, if any, and may provide further Directions, and (b) The trial judge is seized of the matter and must hear the continuation Of the trial.
Part 10 — enforcement Division 1 — applying for orders Application of part 131 (1) The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
(2) For certainty, a family justice manager has no authority under this Part.
Filing agreements 132 A party may file, using form 26 [request to file an agreement] , a copy of a written agreement referred to in the following Provisions of the Family law act :
(a) Section 15
[when parenting coordinators may assist] ; (b) Section 44 (3)
[agreements respecting parenting arrangements] ; (c) Section 58 (3)
[agreements respecting contact] ; (c.1) Section 92 (e), (f) and (g) [agreements respecting property division] ; (d) Section 148 (2)
[agreements respecting child support] ; (e) Section 163 (3)
[agreements respecting spousal support] .
[am. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 9.] Filing parenting coordinator's determination 133 A party may file, using form 27 [request to file determination of parenting coordinator] , a copy of a determination by a parenting coordinator referred to in Section 18
[determinations by parenting coordinators] Of the Family law act .
Filing orders 134 A party may file, using form 28 [request to file an order] , a copy of any of the orders described in the following provisions:
(a) Section 18
[registration of extraprovincial or foreign order] Of the Interjurisdictional support orders act ; (b) Section 195
[provincial court enforcement of supreme court orders] Of the Family law act ; (c) Rule 15-3 (6)
[enforcement in provincial court] Of the supreme court family rules.
Applying for orders about enforcement 135 A party who is applying for an order about any of the following must File and serve on each other party, at least 7 days before the date Referred to in the application for the court appearance, an Application about enforcement in form 29 [application about enforcement] , including a copy of the agreement, determination or order to be Enforced:
(a) Enforcing a filed written agreement or order, including enforcing the Written agreement or order through a court order under any of the Following sections of the Family law act :
(i) Section 61
[denial of parenting time or contact] ; (ii) Section 63
[failure to exercise parenting time or contact] ; (iii) Section 228
[enforcing orders respecting conduct] ; (iv) Section 230
[enforcing orders generally] ; (v) Section 231
[extraordinary remedies] ; (b) Enforcing, changing or setting aside a filed determination of a Parenting coordinator; (c) Setting reasonable and necessarily incurred expenses under any of the Following sections of the Family law act :
(i) Section 61;
(ii) Section 63;
(iii) Section 212
[orders respecting disclosure] ; (iv) Section 213
[enforcing orders respecting disclosure] ; (v) Section 228;
(vi) Section 230;
(d) Determining whether arrears are owing under a support order or Agreement made under the Family law act And, if so, the amount of the arrears.
[am. b.c. reg. 236/2020, sch. 2, s. 7.] Applying to set aside interjurisdictional order 136 (1) In this rule, "designated authority" Has the same meaning as in the Interjurisdictional support orders act .
(2) A party who is applying for an order under section 19 (3) [foreign orders after registration] Of the Interjurisdictional support orders act To set aside the registration of a foreign order under that act must File and serve on the designated authority, by registered mail at Least 30 days before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance, an application about enforcement in form 29 [application about enforcement] , including a copy of the foreign order to be enforced.
(3) The adult who serves an application under subrule (2) must (a) Complete a certificate of service in form 7 [certificate of service] , and (b) File the certificate at least 10 days before the date referred to in The application for the court appearance.
Replying to application for order under this division 137 (1) If a party is served with an application under this division and Chooses to reply, the party (a) Must attend court on the date and time referred to in the application For the court appearance, and (b) May file a written response in reply to the application in form 19 [written response to application] .
(2) If a party chooses to file a written response in reply under subrule (1) (b), the party must file and serve the written response on each Other party before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance.
[am. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 8.] Division 2 — enforcement of support orders under the Family maintenance enforcement act Definitions for this division 138 In this division:
"act" Means the Family maintenance enforcement act ; "debtor" Means a person required under a maintenance order to pay maintenance Under the act; "support order" Has the same meaning as "maintenance order" in the act, including an Agreement deemed to be a maintenance order as referred to in that Definition.
Proceeding may be held separately 139 (1) A proceeding under this division may be held separately from any other Proceedings under these rules.
(2) The filing party may choose one of the following registries for a Hearing under this division:
(a) The registry where the existing case is filed; (b) The registry closest to the debtor's last known address.
Enforcement of support orders or agreements Under
Family maintenance enforcement act 140 (1) A party who is applying for the following garnishing order, summons or Warrant, as applicable, to enforce a support order under the act must File an application for garnishment, summons or warrant in Form 30
[application for garnishment, summons or warrant] And supporting documents:
(a) A summons in form 31 [summons — general] Requiring the debtor to attend court or a warrant for arrest in Form 32
[warrant for arrest] , authorizing the apprehension of the debtor to bring the debtor Before the court, under section 14 (2) [failure to provide statement of finances] Of the act, if a debtor fails to comply with an order to file a Statement of finances or prescribed document, or both, made under Section 14 (1) (a) of the act; (b) A garnishing order under section 18 [garnishment] Of the act to seize and attach, without further application or order, Any debts due and owing by the garnishee to the debtor; (c) A summons to a default hearing in form 33 [summons to a default hearing] To require the attendance of the debtor at a default hearing under Section 19
[summons for default hearing] Of the act if the debtor defaults on a payment required by a support Order;
(d) A summons under section 22 (1) (a) [failure to report] Of the act in form 31 [summons — general] Or warrant for arrest under section 22 (1) (b) of the act in Form 32
[warrant for arrest] If the debtor fails to report by (i) Failing to complete a statement of income and expenses and report to The court, the director or a person designated by the court, in Accordance with an order under section 21 (1) (a) [default hearing] Of the act, or (ii) Failing to provide particulars of each change of residential address, Place of employment or business address to the court, the director or A person designated by the court, in accordance with an order under Section 21 (1) (b) of the act; (e) A summons to a committal hearing in form 34 [summons to a committal hearing] Requiring the attendance of the debtor to a committal hearing under Section 23
[committal hearing] Of the act if the debtor fails to pay, by a date specified in an order Under section 21 (1) (d) or (11) (a) of the act, The full amount required by an order under Section 21 (1) (e) of the act; (f) A warrant of execution under section 27 [warrant of execution] Of the act if the debtor defaults on a payment required by a support Order;
(g) A warrant in form 32 [warrant for arrest] For the arrest of the debtor under section 31 (a) [arrest of absconding debtor] Of the act if there are reasonable and probable grounds for believing That the debtor is about to leave british columbia in order to evade Or hinder the enforcement of a support order.
(2) Unless the documents are served in accordance with subrule (3) or (4), The party who applied for the summons under subrule (1) must Arrange for the personal service of the summons by having an adult who Is not a party leave a copy of the following documents with the debtor At least 7 days before the date for the court appearance referred To in the summons:
(a) The issued summons; (b) The application; (c) Any supporting documents.
(3) A clerk may have the documents referred to in subrule (2) served Personally by a peace officer.
(4) A judge may order another method of service for the documents referred To in subrule (2).
Issuing and enforcing warrants for arrest for Failure to attend enforcement proceeding 141 (1) If a party who is served with a summons issued under rule 140 (1) [enforcement of support orders or agreements under family Maintenance enforcement act] Does not attend court as required by the summons, the judge may issue A warrant for arrest in form 32 [warrant for arrest] For the arrest of the party.
(2) A warrant issued under subrule (1) or rule 140 (1) (a) or (g) Remains in force until (a) The party named in the warrant attends court regarding proceedings Related to the enforcement of support, or (b) The warrant is cancelled.
(3) If arrested, the party named in a warrant issued under subrule (1) or Rule 140 (1) (a) or (g) must (a) Be brought before a justice as soon as possible, and (b) Be released when the party signs a release in form 25 [release from custody] That requires the party's attendance in court.
(4) The registry must provide notice to the party who applied for the Summons or the warrant issued under rule 140 (1) of the new Hearing date set out in the release form referred to in Subrule (3) (b).
(5) If the party named in a warrant does not attend court on a hearing Date set out in a release form referred to in Subrule (3) (b), the judge may issue a warrant for arrest in Form 32
[warrant for arrest] For the arrest of the party and order that the party be brought to a Judge promptly on the arrest.
Applications for orders under Family maintenance enforcement act 142 (1) A party who is applying for one of the following orders must file and Serve on each other party and every other person who may be affected By the order, at least 7 days before the date referred to in the Application for the court appearance, an application in form 35 [application for order under the family maintenance enforcement act] And supporting documents:
(a) Requiring a person to provide to the director correspondence and Searchable information in the possession or control of that person Under section 9 [orders respecting correspondence and searchable information] Of the act; (b) Extending the time for filing a statement of finances with the court Under section 13 (4) [statement of finances required by court] Of the act; (c) Requiring the debtor to file a statement of finances or prescribed Documents under section 14 (1) [failure to provide statement of finances] Of the act; (d) Requiring the debtor to pay an amount on failing to file a statement Of finances or, if required by section 12 or 13 of the act, Prescribed documents under section 14 (1) (b) of the Act;
(e) Providing that a corporation is jointly and separately liable with the Debtor for payments required by the support order under Section 14.2 (2)
[a corporation controlled by the debtor or by the debtor and Immediate family members] Of the act; (e.1) Suspending, changing or cancelling under section 23 (7.1) or (7.3) of The act an order to imprison a debtor, which was made at a hearing Heard in the debtor's absence; (f) Requiring payment by an attachee who failed under section 16 (3) [withdrawal of notice of attachment] Or 24 (6)
[attachment orders] Of the act to pay in accordance with a notice of attachment or to Respond in accordance with the regulations; (g) Providing that a notice of attachment has no effect because the Attachee is no longer liable or that the notice of attachment contains Or is based on a material error, under section 16 (5) of the Act;
(h) Changing an order made at a default hearing under Section 21 (1) or (2) [default hearing] Of the act; (i) Changing the amount exempt from attachment under an attachment order Or notice of attachment; (j) Setting aside an attachment order made under section 24 of the act; (k) Discharging or postponing the registration of a support order Registered against land under section 26 (10) [registration in land title office] Of the act; (l) Requiring that the director of maintenance enforcement direct the Insurance corporation of british columbia to disregard, under Section 29.2 (2)
[withdrawing the director's notice] Of the act, a notice stating that the debtor is in default and that an Action under section 29.1 (1) of the act is to be taken in Relation to (i) The debtor's driver's licence, or (ii) A licence and corresponding number plates for any motor vehicle or Trailer owned by the debtor; (m) Requiring security in any form from the debtor under section 30.1 [order requiring security for maintenance payments] Of the act; (n) Requiring an individual or authorized representative of a corporation, Partnership or proprietorship to attend a default hearing or committal Hearing and to file financial information under Section 39 (1)
[third parties compellable] Of the act.
(2) A party who applies for the following orders under section 46 [order restraining harassment] Of the act must file and serve on each other party and every other Person who may be affected by the order, at least 7 days before The date referred to in the application for the court appearance, an Application in form 35 [application for order under the family maintenance enforcement act] And supporting documents:
(a) Restraining any person from molesting, annoying, harassing, Communicating with or attempting to molest, annoy, harass or Communicate with a creditor, a debtor or the director of maintenance Enforcement, a person to whom the director has delegated a power, duty Or function under section 2 [director of maintenance enforcement] Of the act or an employee of that person; (b) Requiring a person named in an order under paragraph (a) (i) To enter into a recognizance in form 36 [recognizance — family maintenance enforcement act] , with or without sureties, or to post a bond, and (ii) To report to the court, or a person named by the court, at the times And places and for the period the court directs.
(3) A restraining order under subrule (2) must be in form 37 [restraining order — family maintenance enforcement act] .
[am. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 9.] Replying to an application for order under this division 142.1 (1) If a party is served with an application under this division and Chooses to reply, the party (a) Must attend court on the date and time referred to in the application For the court appearance, and (b) May file a written response in reply to the application in form 19 [written response to application] .
(2) If a party chooses to file a written response in reply under subrule (1) (b), the party must file and serve the written response on each Other party before the date referred to in the application for the Court appearance.
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 10.] Trial preparation conference 143 A judge may direct that a trial preparation conference be scheduled Before the hearing of an application for an order under rule 142 [applications for orders under family maintenance enforcement act] .
Service of documents under this division 144 (1) The following documents require personal service by an adult who is Not a party leaving a copy of the document with the person to be Served:
(a) A general summons; (b) A summons to a committal hearing; (c) A request for court enforcement under the act.
(2) Documents that do not require personal service under subrule (1) must Be served as follows:
(a) If there is an address, an email address or a fax number provided for The address for service on the court file for the person to be served, There may be service (i) By leaving the document at the person's address for service, (ii) By mailing the document by ordinary mail to the person's address for Service,
(iii) By emailing the document to the email address, or (iv) By faxing the document to the fax number; (b) If there is no address for service on the court file for the person to Be served, there may be personal service (i) By having an adult leave the documents with that person, or (ii) As otherwise ordered by the court.
(3) The court may order that a document be served by a peace officer.
General rules in respect of hearing of matters under this division 145 (1) Evidence for a hearing may be provided (a) Orally on oath or affirmation, or (b) By affidavit.
(2) If a party does not attend a hearing, the hearing may proceed without That party.
(3) A party may apply to transfer a court file begun under this division By using the process set out in division 2 [case management orders] Of part 5 [applying for other orders] .
Part 11 — consequences Application of part 146 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Non-compliance with rules 147 (1) A judge may do one or more of the following if a party does not comply With these rules or an order made by a judge or family justice manager Under these rules:
(a) Disregard a document filed in the course of the proceedings; (b) Change or cancel an order; (c) Order a court appearance to be cancelled or adjourned or to continue As if the party were not present, whether the party is actually Present or not; (d) Require that the party meet a requirement by a specified date; (e) Require that the party pay (i) Any other person for all or part of the expenses reasonably and Necessarily incurred by that other person as a result of the Non-compliance, (ii) An amount not exceeding $5 000 to or for the benefit of any other Person, or a spouse or child whose interests were affected by that Person's actions, or (iii) A fine not exceeding $5 000; (f) Make any order or give any directions that the judge considers Necessary and advisable in the circumstances, including an order Dismissing or granting an application made.
(2) Unless a judge otherwise orders, a failure to comply with these rules Must be treated as an irregularity.
Failure of party to attend court appearance 148 (1) Subject to rule 147 [non-compliance with rules] , if a party fails to attend a court appearance at the time scheduled For that court appearance, the judge may, after receipt of any Evidence of service of notice the judge considers appropriate, do one Or more of the following:
(a) Dismiss, cancel or proceed with the court appearance; (b) Draw any inference from the failure to attend that the judge considers Appropriate;
(c) Grant some or all of the orders sought; (d) Issue a summons in form 31 [summons — general] .
(2) If no party attends a court appearance, the judge may dismiss the Application.
Issuing and enforcing warrants for arrest For failure to attend court appearance 149 (1) If a party who is served with a summons or is present in court when The date for a court appearance is set does not attend the court Appearance, the judge may issue a warrant for arrest in form 32 [warrant for arrest] For the arrest of the party.
(2) A warrant issued under subrule (1) remains in force until (a) The party named in the warrant attends court either voluntarily or Under the warrant, or (b) The warrant is cancelled.
(3) If arrested, the party named in a warrant issued under subrule (1) Must
(a) Be brought before a justice as soon as possible, and (b) Be released when the party signs a release in form 25 [release from custody] That requires the party's attendance at court.
(4) The registry must provide notice to each other party of the new Hearing date set out in the release form referred to in Subrule (3) (b).
(5) If the party named in a warrant does not attend court on a hearing Date set out in a release form referred to in Subrule (3) (b), the judge may issue a warrant for arrest in Form 32
[warrant for arrest] For the arrest of the party and order that the party be brought to a Judge promptly on the arrest.
Hearings about extraordinary remedies under Section 231 of Family law act 150 (1) In this rule, "hearing about an extraordinary remedy" Means a hearing in which a judge decides whether to make any of the Following orders under section 231 [extraordinary remedies] Of the Family law act :
(a) An order that a person be imprisoned for a term of no more than 30 Days if the person failed to comply with an order under the Family law act And no other order will be sufficient to secure the person's Compliance;
(b) An order requiring a police officer to apprehend a child from a Guardian who has wrongfully denied another person parenting time or Contact with the child and to take the child to that other person; (c) An order requiring a police officer to apprehend a child from a person Having contact with the child who has wrongfully withheld the child From the child's guardian and to take the child to the guardian.
(2) A judge may make directions as to the conduct of a hearing about an Extraordinary remedy, including directions that the hearing be Conducted as a trial.
(3) An order made under section 231 (2) [extraordinary remedies] Of the Family law act For the imprisonment of a person must be in form 38 [order for imprisonment] .
Warrants related to orders for imprisonment Under section 231 (2) of Family law act 151 (1) If the court is of the opinion that an order for imprisonment under Section 231 (2)
[extraordinary remedies] Of the Family law act May be necessary, the court may issue a warrant in form 32 [warrant for arrest] That the person be apprehended and brought before the court.
(2) If a person referred to in subrule (1) is arrested and brought before The court, the court in a summary manner may determine whether Imprisonment is necessary.
(3) No determination may be made under subrule (2) without the person Being given a reasonable opportunity to show why imprisonment is not Necessary.
(4) The court may order the release of a person apprehended under Subrule (1) on receiving an undertaking in form 25 [release from custody] From that person.
Suspension of extraordinary remedy 152 The court at any time may direct that an imprisonment ordered under Section 231 (2)
[extraordinary remedies] Of the Family law act Be suspended for the period or on the terms or conditions the court May specify.
Release of person 153 On application by or on behalf of a person imprisoned under Section 231 (2)
[extraordinary remedies] Of the Family law act , the court may release that person, whether or not the period of the Committal has elapsed.
Part 12 — general rules Division 1 — general procedural rules Application of part 154 The rules set out in this part apply in all registries.
Deficient forms 155 (1) A clerk may refuse to accept a form for filing if it is not in the Correct form or if the form is not completed in accordance with the Instructions.
(2) A party may apply for an order under rule 62 [case management orders — judge] Or 63
[case management orders — family justice manager] To permit the filing of a form that is deficient.
Requesting conference or hearing 156 (1) If any of the following circumstances apply, a party may request that A court appearance be scheduled and must file and serve on each other Party a request for scheduling in form 39 [request for scheduling] , unless otherwise directed by the court:
(a) The matter was adjourned by the court without setting a new date; (b) The matter was struck from the court list by the court; (c) A party was referred to a program, professional or resource, or Required to attend, participate or complete a requirement, by the Court;
(d) A party was required by the court to address a deficiency under these Rules;
(e) A review of the terms of the order was provided for in the order; (f) A party is applying to change, suspend or cancel an interim order Under section 216 (3) [court may make interim orders] Of the Family law act ; (g) A party is applying for an interim order under section 216 or 217 [interim orders before changing, suspending or terminating orders] Of the Family law act After attendance at a family management conference.
(2) A party requesting that a court appearance be scheduled must serve the Form under subrule (1) on each other party at least 7 days Before the date referred to in the application for the court Appearance.
[am. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 12.] Judge may waive or modify requirements in rules 157 A judge may, at any time, waive or modify (a) Any requirement under these rules, including a requirement related to Service or giving notice to a person under these rules, or (b) A time limit set by these rules or by an order of the court, even After the time limit has expired.
Judge may give directions 158 A judge may give directions on any procedural matter that is not Provided for in these rules or an enactment.
Judge may require notice about consensual dispute resolution 158.1 If a judge has ordered or directed that a party participate in Consensual dispute resolution with a family justice counsellor under Rule 56
[directions or orders to attend] Or rule 108 (2) (e) (i) [what happens at family settlement conference] , the judge may require the parties to obtain written notice from the Family justice counsellor indicating the following:
(a) If it was determined that consensual dispute resolution was completed And, if so, the date of completion; (b) If it was determined that consensual dispute resolution was not able To be accessed or was not appropriate; (c) The kinds of family law matters that were addressed during consensual Dispute resolution; (d) The kinds of family law matters that are outstanding.
[en. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 1, s. 13.] Judge may change, suspend or cancel orders made in absence of party 159 (1) A judge may change, suspend or cancel an order made in the absence of A party if the judge determines that (a) The absent party applied in accordance with subrule (2) for the Change, suspension or cancellation of the order within a reasonable Time, and (b) Either of the following apply:
(i) The absent party did not receive notice of the application under which The order was made; (ii) There is a good reason to change, suspend or cancel the order.
(2) To apply to change, suspend or cancel an order made under subrule (1), The absent party must file and serve on each other party the following At least 7 days before the date referred to in the application For the court appearance:
(a) An application for a case management order in form 10 [application for case management order] ; (b) Any supporting evidence or documents.
Practice directions 160 The chief judge of the court may issue practice directions consistent With these rules and their purpose.
Child's views 161 If a case involves a child, the child's views must be considered Unless it is inappropriate to do so.
Child's lawyer 162 (1) If a case involves a child and the child is represented by a lawyer in The case, the lawyer for the child must (a) File and serve on the parties form 40 [notice of lawyer for child] When the lawyer starts representing the child, and (b) File and serve on the parties form 41 [notice of removal of lawyer for child] When the lawyer stops representing the child.
(2) The lawyer for a child (a) Must be notified of all hearings, conferences and trial dates relating To the case, (b) Must be served all documents that the parties are served, and (c) May attend all hearings, conferences and trial dates relating to the Case.
(3) For the purposes of these rules, a lawyer may start representing a Child at any time during a case.
Party's lawyer 163 (1) For the purposes of these rules, a lawyer may start representing a Party in a case by a party or the lawyer (a) Providing the lawyer's contact information and address for service of Documents on an application or reply, or (b) Filing and serving on each party a notice of lawyer for party in Form 42
[notice of lawyer for party] .
(2) A lawyer who represents a party under subrule (1) may represent the Party
(a) For all issues in a case, or (b) For one or more limited purposes identified in the notice of lawyer For party filed under subrule (1) (b).
(3) For the purposes of these rules, a lawyer stops representing a party In a case if one of the following applies:
(a) The party or the lawyer files and serves on each party a notice of Removal of lawyer in form 43 [notice of removal of lawyer for party] ; (b) The party or a new lawyer for the party files and serves on each party A notice of lawyer in form 42 [notice of lawyer for party] Identifying the new lawyer; (c) The limited purpose for which the lawyer was representing the party, As described in the notice of lawyer for party filed under Subrule (1) (b), has ended.
Default method of attendance 163.1 (1) Court appearances must be attended in person.
(2) Despite subrule (1), the chief judge may direct that a class of court Appearances may or must be attended by telephone, video conference or Other means of electronic communication.
(3) A direction under subrule (2) may be different for different court Registries, types of court appearances, classes of persons or Circumstances.
[en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 11.] Court may allow a different method of attendance 164 (1) Despite rule 163.1, the court may allow a person to attend a court Appearance by any method of attendance that the court specifies.
(2) The court may consider the following in making an order or direction Under subrule (1):
(a) The distance between the person's residence and the location of the Court appearance; (b) Difficulty in attending because of illness or disability; (c) The financial cost associated with attending; (d) The expense incurred, or savings realized, by using electronic Communication;
(e) Any concerns related to security, including a risk of family violence; (f) Any difficulty in conducting the court appearance that may arise from Using electronic communication.
(3) For the purposes of these rules, a reference to attending, appearing, Giving, being before a judge, justice or family justice manager, being In court or being at a place or location is not to be interpreted as Requiring in-person attendance.
[am. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 1, s. 12.] Copies permissible instead of originals 165 With the permission of the judge or the family justice manager, as Applicable, a copy of a document may be used in court instead of the Original.
Confidentiality of information 166 A party must not use or disclose any information of any other parties Contained in a record provided or entered as evidence under these Rules except to the extent necessary to resolve a case under these Rules.
Division 2 — general procedure for orders Effective date of orders 167 An order takes effect at the time it is made unless ordered otherwise.
Preparation of orders 168 (1) If one or more of the parties are represented by a lawyer, any one of The lawyers must prepare an order made at a court appearance in Form 44
[order — general] , unless another form is required by these rules, and provide it to Any other lawyers for the other parties or, if the parties are Unrepresented, to the registry (a) Within 14 days of the date the order is made, or (b) Within the period permitted by the court.
(2) Unless the court orders otherwise, an order that is prepared by a Party's lawyer and is not made by consent under section 219 [persons may consent to order being made] Of the Family law act Must be approved and signed (a) By the party's lawyer, and (b) If any other party is represented by a lawyer, by the other party's Lawyer.
(3) If the other party's lawyer does not approve and sign an order Prepared in accordance with subrule (1), reasons for not signing Must be provided to whoever prepared the order (a) Within 14 days of the date the order was provided to that other party, Or
(b) Within the period permitted by the court.
(4) A party who is not represented by a lawyer is not required to sign an Order, unless (a) Ordered otherwise by the court, or (b) Required otherwise under these rules.
(5) If no party is represented by a lawyer, a clerk must prepare an order Made at a court appearance (a) Within 14 days, or (b) Within the period permitted by the court.
(6) After an order is signed in accordance with subrule (2), it must be Delivered to the registry to be signed by the judge or family justice Manager, as applicable, and filed.
(7) After an order is filed under subrule (6), the registry must provide a Filed copy of the order to each party, or each party's lawyer, who has Provided an address for service.
Designate may sign 169 An order to be signed by a judge or family justice manager under these Rules may be signed by a designate of the judge or family justice Manager.
Correction of orders 170 Any judge may correct, at any time, a clerical mistake or omission in An order.
Division 3 — affidavits and general rules for filing Form of affidavits 171 (1) Unless a rule provides otherwise, an affidavit must be in form 45 [affidavit — general] .
(2) An affidavit must (a) Be expressed in the first person and include the name, address and Occupation of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit, (b) State whether the person swearing or affirming the affidavit is a Party or the lawyer, agent, director, officer or employee of a party, (c) Be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively and have page Numbers, and (d) Have page numbers for the exhibits if the affidavit has any exhibits.
(3) An affidavit is made when (a) The person swearing or affirming the affidavit (i) Signs the affidavit, or (ii) If the person is unable to sign the affidavit, places that person's Mark on it, and (b) The person before whom the affidavit is sworn or affirmed completes And signs a statement confirming that the affidavit was sworn or Affirmed in the person's presence.
(4) The person before whom an affidavit is sworn or affirmed must identify Each exhibit referred to in the affidavit by signing a certificate Placed on or attached to the exhibit.
(5) Subject to subrule (6), an affidavit must state only what a person Swearing or affirming the affidavit would be permitted to state in Evidence at a trial.
(6) An affidavit may contain statements as to the information and belief Of the person swearing or affirming the affidavit, if the source of The information and belief is given.
Filing unsworn documents 172 (1) In this rule, "unsworn document" Means any of the following documents that have not been sworn or Affirmed:
(a) A financial statement in form 4 [financial statement] ; (b) A guardianship affidavit in form 5 [guardianship affidavit] ; (c) An application about a protection order in form 12 [application about a protection order] That has an attached schedule 1 [affidavit for protection order] ; (d) An affidavit in form 45 [affidavit — general] .
(2) An unsworn document may be filed even though the person who made the Document has not sworn or affirmed to its contents if (a) The person has signed the document, and (b) It is not practicable for the person to swear or affirm to the Contents of the document before the document is filed.
(3) If an unsworn document is filed under subrule (2), the person who made The document must be available to swear or affirm that the contents of The document are true, as may be required by a judge or family justice Manager, including at a subsequent court appearance.
Requirement to file additional copies if not filing electronically 173 Unless the party files electronic documents in accordance with Division 7
[electronic filing] , a party who files a document under these rules must file (a) One copy for the court, (b) One copy for the filing party, (c) One copy for each party other than the filing party, and (d) If applicable, one copy for each lawyer for a child.
Who can search court files 174 (1) Unless the court otherwise orders, only the following persons may Search a court file under these rules:
(a) A party to the court file; (b) A lawyer, whether or not the lawyer represents a party, and including A lawyer for a child; (c) A family justice counsellor; (d) A person authorized by a judge; (e) A person authorized in writing by a party to the court file or by the Party's lawyer.
(2) Despite subrule (1), any person may access the following information About a case, unless the court otherwise orders:
(a) The names of the parties as identified in the case; (b) The case file number; (c) The registry at which the court file is located; (d) The date the case was started.
Division 4 — service Address for service 175 (1) Each party who files an application or reply must provide an address For service where the party can receive notice or service of Documents.
(2) An address for service may be an address other than the party's home Address.
(3) Each party is responsible for checking, on a regular basis, for the Receipt of notice or service of documents at that party's address for Service, including any email address or fax number that was provided For service.
(4) If a party's address for service changes, the party must file a notice Of change of address in form 46 [notice of address change] And serve a copy on each other party as soon as possible.
(5) If a party's address for service is outside british columbia, the Party must provide an email address for service.
Ordinary service 176 Except when a document must be provided to another person using Personal service, a document may be provided (a) By leaving the document at the person's address for service, (b) By mailing the document by registered mail to the person's address for Service,
(c) By mailing the document by ordinary mail to the person's address for Service,
(d) By emailing the document to the person's email address for service, or (e) By faxing the document to the person's fax number for service.
Personal service of certain documents 177 The following documents require personal service by an adult who is Not a party leaving a copy of the document with the person to be Served:
(a) An application about a family law matter; (b) A summons or subpoena; (c) An application about a protection order; (d) A protection order, if the person against whom the protection order Application is made was not present in court; (e) A request for court enforcement under the Family maintenance enforcement act ; (f) Any document that the court has determined requires personal service; (g) Any application that is to be served on a party who has not provided An address for service.
Summons
178 Unless otherwise ordered by the court, a summons under these rules Must be served at least 7 days before the date set in the summons for The court appearance.
Service completed 179 A document is deemed to have been served on a person as follows:
(a) If served by leaving a copy at an address for service (i) At or before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a saturday or holiday, the Document is deemed to be served on the day of service, or (ii) On a saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the Document is deemed to be served on the next day that is not a saturday Or holiday; (b) If served by sending a copy by ordinary mail to an address for Service, on the 14th day after it is mailed; (c) If served by transmitting a copy by email to the email address Provided in the address for service (i) At or before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a saturday or holiday, the Document is deemed to be served on the day of transmission, or (ii) On a saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the Document is deemed to be served on the next day that is not a saturday Or holiday; (d) If served by transmitting a copy by fax to the fax number provided in The address for service (i) At or before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a saturday or holiday, the Document is deemed to be served on the day of transmission, or (ii) On a saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the Document is deemed to be served on the next day that is not a saturday Or holiday; (e) If served by personal service (i) At or before 4 p.m. on a day that is not a saturday or holiday, the Document is deemed to be served on the day of service, or (ii) On a saturday or holiday or after 4 p.m. on any other day, the Document is deemed to be served on the next day that is not a saturday Or holiday.
Documents served on the director of maintenance enforcement 180 A document may be served on the director of maintenance enforcement by Mailing the document to the postal address provided by the director.
Documents served on a person who is not a party 181 A document other than a summons or subpoena may be served on a person Who is not a party by leaving the document with the person or by Mailing by ordinary mail the document to that person's postal address.
Alternative methods of service 182 (1) If it is not practicable to serve a document in accordance with these Rules, a party may apply under rule 62 [case management orders — judge] Or 63
[case management orders — family justice manager] For an order by a judge or family justice manager, as applicable, that The document (a) Must be served by a peace officer, or (b) May be served using an alternative method of service, if the court is Satisfied that the person to be served (i) Cannot be found after a diligent search, (ii) Is evading service of the document, or (iii) Is temporarily outside british columbia.
(2) If an order is made that permits an alternative method of service for A document, a copy of the order, the application under Subrule (1) and any supporting documents must be served with the Document, unless the permitted method of service is notice to be given By advertisement.
(3) If the court orders notice to be given by advertisement, that Advertisement must be in form 47 [notice by advertisement] And the party who applied for the order must pay for the Advertisement.
Proving service 183 (1) Subject to subrule (2), service of a document may be proved by filing A certificate of service in form 7 [certificate of service] And attaching a copy of the document served.
(2) Service of the following documents may be proved by filing the Applicable affidavit:
(a) For a summons or subpoena, an affidavit of personal service in Form 48
[affidavit of personal service] ; (b) For an order about a protection order, an affidavit of personal Service of a protection order in form 49 [affidavit of personal service of protection order] .
(3) Service of a document on a lawyer or articled student may be proved by Filing a copy of the document signed by the lawyer or articled student Or by a partner or employee of the firm of the lawyer or articled Student.
Oral proof of service 184 Instead of requiring proof of service under rule 183 [proving service] , the court may allow a person to prove by sworn or affirmed oral Evidence that the person has served a document.
Admissibility of other evidence of service 185 Nothing in rule 184 [oral proof of service] Restricts the admissibility of any other evidence of service that the Court may consider appropriate in the circumstances.
Service outside british columbia 186 An application or other document may be served on a person outside British columbia if the order sought in the application is within the Jurisdiction of the court under section 10 [real and substantial connection] Of the Court jurisdiction and proceedings transfer act Or division 7 [extraprovincial matters respecting parenting arrangements] Or 8
[international child abduction] Of part 4 of the Family law act .
Service effective if acknowledged 187 Despite any requirement about service under this part, service of a Document is deemed to be effective if the party who was served gives Written acknowledgement of receiving the document.
Division 5 — changing a filed document Changing filed application about family law matter, Reply or reply to counter application 188 (1) A party may change anything in an application about a family law Matter, a reply or a reply to a counter application, (a) Without a court order, before the first family management conference, Or
(b) With a court order or consent of the parties, at any time.
(2) A party may apply under rule 64 [applying for case management orders] To a judge or a family justice manager for an order to change anything In an application about a family law matter, a reply or a reply to a Counter application.
(3) If a party makes a change as described in subrule (1), the application About a family law matter, reply or reply to a counter application Must
(a) Indicate at the top of the document that the document has been Changed,
(b) Indicate the date on which the change to the document is made, (c) Include an indication of the changes being made to the document by (i) Underlining anything that is being added to the document, and (ii) Striking out anything that is being deleted from the document, and (d) Include a reference to the order that authorizes the change, if Applicable.
Service of changed application about family law matter, Reply or reply to counter application 189 An application about a family law matter, a reply or a reply to a Counter application that is changed under rule 188 [changing filed application about family law matter, reply or reply To counter application] Must be served on each other party within 7 days of filing the Changed application about a family law matter, reply or reply to Counter application.
Reply to change 190 (1) Subject to subrule (2) and rule 15 [intention to proceed in certain cases after one year] , a party who has been served a changed application about a family law Matter or reply under rule 189 [service of changed application about family law matter, reply or Reply to counter application] And who chooses to file a reply or reply to counter application must File and serve the reply document within 14 days of being served The changed application about a family law matter or reply, as Applicable.
(2) If an application about a family law matter or reply has been changed Under rule 188 [changing filed application about family law matter, reply or reply To counter application] To add a new application about child support or spousal support, a Party who has been served the changed application or reply and who Chooses to file a reply must file and serve the following within 30 Days of service of the changed application:
(a) The reply document; (b) The applicable additional documents described in rule 25 [additional requirements when applying for certain orders] .
Division 6 — discontinuing an application, reply or reply to counter Application
Discontinuing an application about family law matter, Reply or reply to counter application 191 (1) A party may discontinue all or part of an application, a reply or a Reply to a counter application by doing the following:
(a) Filing a notice of discontinuance in form 50 [notice of discontinuance] In accordance with subrules (2) and (3), as applicable; (b) Serving the notice of discontinuance on each other party before the Earlier of the following dates:
(i) 14 days after the party filed the notice; (ii) The date of the next scheduled court appearance.
(2) If a trial preparation conference is scheduled, a notice of Discontinuance may be filed under subrule (1) (a) Before the trial preparation conference, or (b) After the trial preparation conference, with the consent of the other Parties or with permission of the court.
(3) If a trial preparation conference is not scheduled, a notice of Discontinuance may be filed under subrule (1) (a) At least 30 days before the scheduled trial date, or (b) Less than 30 days before the scheduled trial date, with the consent of The other parties or with permission of the court.
(4) A party may only discontinue an application about a family law matter, A reply or a reply to a counter application under this rule if the Application or reply was made by the party.
(5) The discontinuation of an application about a family law matter, a Reply or a reply to a counter application by a party under this rule Does not affect any application or reply made by another party.
(6) Subject to the limitation periods set out in Sections 147 (4) (b) [duty to provide support for child] And 198 (2)
[time limits] Of the Family law act , the discontinuation of an application about a family law matter by a Party under this rule does not prevent the party from filing a new Application about the same family law matter at a later date, unless a Judge orders otherwise.
Division 7 — electronic filing Electronic filing 192 (1) A person filing documents in a registry by means of electronic filing Must
(a) Enter into an agreement with the court services branch of the ministry Of attorney general respecting the terms and conditions under which Those filings may be made, and (b) Submit documents for filing in accordance with that agreement.
(2) A person may electronically transmit a document other than a certified Copy of an order to a registry for filing.
Electronic filing of affidavits or other signed documents 193 (1) An affidavit or other signed document that is being filed for Evidentiary purposes, if submitted for filing electronically, must Clearly identify the signatory and must be accompanied by a statement, In form 51 [electronic filing statement] , of the lawyer acting for the person on whose behalf the document is Submitted for filing or, if that person is unrepresented, by a Statement of that person, in that electronic filing statement, Indicating that (a) The original paper version of the document appears to bear an original Signature of the person identified as the signatory and the person Making the electronic filing statement has no reason to believe that The signature on the document is not the signature of the identified Signatory, and (b) The version of the document that is being submitted for filing Electronically appears to be a true copy of the original paper version Of the document and the person making the electronic filing statement Has no reason to believe that it is not a true copy of the original Paper version.
(2) A person who, under subrule (1), submits a document for filing Electronically under these rules must (a) Keep the original paper version of the document until the earliest of (i) The date on which the proceeding, including any appeals, is finally Disposed of, (ii) The date on which the appeal period for the proceeding has expired, if No notice of appeal respecting the proceeding is filed within that Period, and (iii) The date on which a judge orders that the original paper version be Filed, and (b) If an order is made under paragraph (a) (iii) of this subrule, file The original paper version promptly after that order is made.
Fax filing 194 (1) A clerk may accept for filing any document, other than a certified Copy of an order, that has been transmitted to the registry by fax.
(2) A clerk may refuse to accept a document for filing that is transmitted By fax for any of the following reasons:
(a) The document is not accompanied by a fax cover sheet in form 52 [fax filing cover page — provincial court family] ; (b) The document relates to more than one court file; (c) In the opinion of the clerk, the document is illegible and cannot be Used by the court; (d) The document is incomplete; (e) The document should have been transmitted to another registry; (f) The document does not otherwise conform to practice and procedure Under these rules and any applicable enactment.
(3) A document that is transmitted by fax and received by the registry Will be filed as soon as possible unless the document is refused under Subrule (2).
(4) A person who, under subrule (1), submits a document for filing by fax Under these rules must (a) Keep the original paper version of the document until the earliest of (i) The date on which the proceeding, including any appeals, is finally Disposed of, (ii) The date on which the appeal period for the proceeding has expired, if No notice of appeal respecting the proceeding is filed within that Period, and (iii) The date on which a judge orders that the original paper version be Filed, and (b) If an order is made under paragraph (a) (iii) of this subrule, file The original paper version promptly after that order is made.
(5) If a clerk accepts for filing a document that has been transmitted by Fax, the clerk must send a confirmation of the filing to the person Who transmitted the document by doing one of the following:
(a) Transmitting the confirmation by fax to the person; (b) Providing the confirmation in a manner agreed to by the clerk and the Person.
(6) A confirmation under subrule (5) must include (a) A cover sheet, (b) The first page of the document that was filed, showing the date stamp And file number, and (c) Any other page that was altered by the court or the registry.
Part 13 — transition Definitions for part 13 195 In this part:
"effective date of these rules" Means the date on which this rule comes into force; "former rules" Means the provincial court (family) rules, b.c. reg. 417/98; "pre-existing proceeding" Means a proceeding that was started under the former rules but not Concluded before the effective date of these rules.
These rules apply to pre-existing proceedings 196 (1) A pre-existing proceeding continues under and in accordance with these Rules as though the proceeding had been started under these rules.
(2) For greater certainty, for the purposes of subrule (1), (a) A step taken under the former rules in a pre-existing proceeding is Deemed to have been taken under these rules, (b) A form filed under the former rules for a purpose relating to a Pre-existing proceeding must be treated as if it were the Corresponding form that would be filed under these rules for that same Or a similar purpose, (c) A notice of motion that was filed under the former rules continues Under these rules as if it were an application for an order or Direction, and (d) If a form was filed under the former rules but not served before the Effective date of these rules, the form must be served in accordance With the applicable requirements relating to service under these Rules.
Judge may make case management order to resolve difficulty or doubt 197 A judge, on application or on the judge's own initiative, may make Orders or directions under division 2 [case management orders] Of part 5 [applying for other orders] The judge considers appropriate if (a) There is doubt about the application or operation of these rules to a Pre-existing proceeding, or (b) Any difficulty, injustice or impossibility arises as a result of the Application of rule 196 [these rules apply to pre-existing proceedings] .
Registry may temporarily accept certain forms under former rules 198 For the period of 30 days after the effective date of these rules, the Registry may accept for filing either of the following forms under the Former rules in substitution for the related form under these rules:
(a) A reply in form 3 [reply] ; (b) A financial statement in form 4 [financial statement] That is filed with a reply.
Appendix — list of forms Form 1
— notice to resolve a family law matter [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 2
— notice of intention to proceed Form 3
— application about a family law matter [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 4
— financial statement [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 5
— guardianship affidavit Form 6
— reply to an application about a family law matter [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 7
— certificate of service Form 8
— reply to a counter application [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 9
— application for permission and review of family justice manager Order or direction Form 10
— application for case management order [en. b.c. reg. 9/2024.] Form 11
— application for case management order without notice or attendance [en. b.c. reg. 9/2024.] Form 12
— application about a protection order [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 13
— protection order Form 14
— order terminating a protection order Form 15
— application about priority parenting matter [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 16
— application for order prohibiting the relocation of a child [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 17
— application for a family law matter consent order [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 18
— consent order Form 19
— written response to application [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 20
— notice of exemption from parenting education program [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 21
— referral request [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 22
— trial readiness statement Form 23
— subpoena to witness Form 24
— warrant for arrest after subpoena Form 25
— release from custody Form 26
— request to file an agreement [en. b.c. reg. 214/2023, s. 10.] Form 27
— request to file a determination of parenting coordinator Form 28
— request to file an order Form 29
— application about enforcement [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 30
— application for garnishment, summons or warrant Form 31
— summons — general [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 32
— warrant for arrest [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 33
— summons to a default hearing [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 34
— summons to a committal hearing [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 35
— application for order under the Family maintenance enforcement act [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 36
— recognizance — Family maintenance enforcement act [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 37
— restraining order — Family maintenance enforcement act [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 38
— order for imprisonment Form 39
— request for scheduling Form 40
— notice of lawyer for child [en. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 2.] Form 41
— notice of removal of lawyer for child [en. b.c. reg. 126/2021, sch. 2.] Form 42
— notice of lawyer for party Form 43
— notice of removal of lawyer for party Form 44
— order — general [en. b.c. reg. 302/2021, sch. 3.] Form 45
— affidavit — general Form 46
— notice of address change Form 47
— notice by advertisement Form 48
— affidavit of personal service Form 49
— affidavit of personal service of protection order Form 50
— notice of discontinuance Form 51
— electronic filing statement Form 52
— fax filing cover page — provincial court family Appendix — forms Form 1
Form 2
Form 3
Form 4
Form 5
Form 6
Form 7
Form 8
Form 9
Form 10
Form 11
Form 12
Form 13
Form 14
Form 15
Form 16
Form 17
Form 18
Form 19
Form 20
Form 21
Form 22
Form 23
Form 24
Form 25
Form 26
Form 27
Form 28
Form 29
Form 30
Form 31
Form 32
Form 33
Form 34
Form 35
Form 36
Form 37
Form 38
Form 39
Form 40
Form 41
Form 42
Form 43
Form 44
Form 45
Form 46
Form 47
Form 48
Form 49
Form 50
Form 51
Form 52
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Court rules act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 80, s. 1.]