Civil Rights Protection Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 49
Definition
1
In this Act,
"prohibited act"
means any conduct or communication by a person that has as its purpose
interference with the civil rights of a person or class of persons by
promoting
(a)
hatred or contempt of a person or class of persons, or
(b)
the superiority or inferiority of a person or class of persons in
comparison with another or others,
on the basis of colour, race, religion, ethnic origin or place of
origin.
Prohibited act is actionable
2
(1)
A prohibited act is a tort actionable without proof of damage,
(a)
by any person against whom the prohibited act was directed, or
(b)
if the prohibited act was directed against a class of persons, by any
member of that class.
(2)
If a corporation or society engages in a prohibited act, every
director or officer of the corporation or society who authorized,
permitted or acquiesced in the commission of the prohibited act may be
sued by the persons referred to in subsection (1) and is liable in the
same manner as the corporation or society.
(3)
In an action brought under this section, the commission of a
prohibited act by any director or officer of a corporation or society
must be presumed, unless the contrary is shown, to be done, authorized
or concurred in by the corporation or society.
(4)
An action under this section must be commenced in the Supreme Court.
Attorney General may intervene in action
3
(1)
The Attorney General may intervene in an action commenced under
section 2.
(2)
If the Attorney General intervenes, the Attorney General becomes a
party to the proceedings.
(3)
If a person commences an action under section 2, the person must
serve the Attorney General with a copy of the notice of civil claim
within 30 days after commencing the action.
Remedies
4
(1)
A party to an action brought under section 2 may be awarded
damages or exemplary damages.
(2)
If the court awards damages or exemplary damages in an action brought
by a member of a class of persons under section 2, the court may
order payment of the damages to any person, organization or society
that, in the court's opinion, represents the interests of the class of
persons.
(3)
In an action brought under section 2, the court may, in addition
to any other relief, grant an injunction.
Offence
5
(1)
A person who engages in a prohibited act commits an offence and is
liable to a fine of not more than $2 000 or to imprisonment for
not more than 6 months, or to both.
(2)
A corporation or society that commits an offence under subsection (1)
is liable to a fine of not more than $10 000.
(3)
If a corporation or society commits an offence under subsection (1),
every director or officer of the corporation or society who
authorized, permitted or acquiesced in the commission of the
prohibited act commits an offence and is liable to the penalties under
subsection (1).
