Innovate BC Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 415
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"agency"
means Innovate BC, the agency continued under this Act;
"president"
means the president of the agency.
Innovate BC
2
(1)
Innovate BC is continued as an agency consisting of
(a)
no more than 15 directors appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council for a term not exceeding 3 years, and
(b)
the president.
(2)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may designate a chair from among
the directors.
(3)
No person may be appointed under subsection (1) (a) to a term as
director that, together with previous terms as director, would be
longer than 6 consecutive years.
Objectives of Innovate BC
3
The agency must do all of the following:
(a)
encourage development and application of advanced or innovative
technology to meet the needs of industry in British Columbia including
the implementation, administration and funding of programs and the
organization and management of projects and initiatives that serve to
further the objectives set out in this section;
(b)
consider all matters brought to its attention by the minister and if
required by the minister report its findings to the minister;
(b.1)
offer tools, resources and expert guidance to entrepreneurs and
companies in British Columbia, including in respect of building
capacity to access new markets and attract investment;
(c)
formulate recommendations to the government respecting the
acquisition, development and dissemination of scientific,
technological and scholarly knowledge to promote the industrial,
economic and social development of British Columbia,
(d)
advise the government on implementation of science, technology and
innovation policy;
(e)
gather and organize information on scientific research;
(f)
facilitate discussions on science, technology and innovation policy
with Canada or a province or with an interested person;
(g)
recommend to the government the establishment and awarding of
fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, grants and prizes
to encourage development of improved technology and retention of
skilled research personnel in British Columbia;
(h)
evaluate research and development proposals and make recommendations
to the government respecting funding of these proposals.
Grants and funding
4
The agency may
(a)
make an award described in section 3 (g) for the purposes referred to
in that section, and
(b)
fund a proposal described in section 3 (h).
Reimbursement and remuneration of directors of Innovate BC
5
Each director of the agency must be reimbursed for reasonable
travelling and out of pocket expenses necessarily incurred in the
discharge of duties under this Act and may be paid remuneration for
services that the Lieutenant Governor in Council orders.
President, officers and employees of Innovate BC
6
(1)
The agency must appoint the president and determine the remuneration
and other terms and conditions of employment of the president.
(2)
The agency is responsible for the administration of the agency's
business.
(3)
The agency may
(a)
appoint or employ officers and other employees the agency considers
necessary to carry on its business and operations,
(b)
define the duties of these officers and other employees and, subject
to the regulations, determine their remuneration and other terms and
conditions of their employment, and
(c)
provide a system of organization to carry out the business of the
agency.
(4)
The agency may delegate to the president a power or responsibility
described by subsection (3).
(5)
The officers and employees appointed or employed under this section
are officers and employees of the agency during the term of their
appointment or employment.
(6)
Subject to this Act, the
Public Service Act
and the
Public Service Labour Relations Act
do not apply to the officers and employees of the agency.
Transfer of public service or secretariat employees to Innovate BC
7
If immediately before appointment or employment under section 6 (3) an
officer or employee of the agency had been confirmed in employment
under section 6 of the
Science Council Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 379, or under the
Public Service Act
, the officer or employee is entitled to all accrued superannuation or
pension plan benefits in respect of that employment and to full credit
for contributions made by the officer or employee or attributable to
the former employer on behalf of the officer or employee in respect of
that employment.
Public service seniority
8
An officer or employee of the agency who elects or has elected to be a
public service employee under the
Public Service Act
, within 12 months after appointment or employment by the agency,
retains service seniority in the public service for the period of
office or employment with the agency.
Application of other Acts
9
(1)
The
Public Service Benefit Plan Act
applies to the officers and employees of the agency.
(2)
The Public Service Pension Plan, continued under the
Public Sector Pension Plans Act
, applies to the agency, its officers and employees.
Powers of Innovate BC
10
(1)
Subject to the regulations, the agency may
(a)
purchase material and equipment and maintain premises required by the
agency,
(b)
regulate its own affairs and its practices and procedures, and
(c)
publish documents and other materials.
(2)
Subject to the regulations, and if authorized by the agency, the
president or other officer may act on the agency's behalf for the
purposes of subsection (1) (a) and (c) and of subsection (3) (a).
(3)
Despite any enactment but subject to the regulations, the agency may,
on its own behalf,
(a)
engage or retain such persons as it considers necessary as
consultants, experts or specialists and set their remuneration, and
(b)
in addition to money appropriated for the purposes of the agency by
the Legislature, acquire money from any other lawful source and
disburse, expend or otherwise deal with the money for the purposes of
this Act.
(4)
Canadian or other rights to or in respect of a discovery, invention or
improvement in an art, process, apparatus, machine, manufacture or
composition of matter may be
(a)
acquired in the agency's own name, or
(b)
licensed, sold or otherwise granted or made available to others by the
agency.
(5)
The agency may pay or receive royalties, fees or other payments for
rights described in subsection (4).
(6)
The agency may invest money in its hands as permitted under the
provisions of the
Trustee Act
respecting the investment of trust property by a trustee.
Execution of documents by Innovate BC
11
A document required to be in writing, and to which the agency is a
party, is deemed to be properly executed if the affixing of the
agency's name is witnessed by
(a)
the signatures of the chair of the agency and one other director of
the agency authorized by the agency, or
(b)
the signature of the president if authorized by the agency.
Innovate BC is an agent of the government
12
(1)
The agency is for all purposes agent of the government and the powers
of the agency may be exercised only as agent of the government.
(2)
The agency is, as agent of the government, a legal entity.
Immunities
13
(1)
An action for damages because of anything done or omitted to be done
in good faith under this Act must not be brought against a director,
officer or employee of the agency
(a)
in the performance or intended performance of any duty, or
(b)
in the exercise or intended exercise of any power.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not absolve the government from vicarious
liability for an act or omission of
(a)
the agency,
(b)
a director, officer or employee of the agency, or
(c)
a person who is subject to the direction of the agency,
for which act or omission the government would be vicariously liable
if this section were not in force.
(3)
Subsection (1) does not absolve the agency from vicarious liability
for an act or omission of a person who is subject to the agency's
direction for which act or omission the agency would be vicariously
liable if this section were not in force.
Exemption of Innovate BC from taxation
14
The agency is not liable to taxation except to the extent that the
government is liable.
Fiscal year end
15
The fiscal year end of the agency is March 31.
Financial administration
16
(1)
The agency must establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the Minister of Finance and must, whenever required by
that minister, render detailed accounts of its revenues and
expenditures for such period or to such day as that minister may
designate.
(2)
Records of the agency must at all times be open for inspection by the
minister or such other person as the minister may designate.
(3)
The Minister of Finance may direct the Comptroller General to examine
and report to the Minister of Finance on any or all of the financial
and accounting operations of the agency.
(4)
Unless the Auditor General is appointed in accordance with the
Auditor General Act
as the auditor of the agency, the agency must appoint a person
authorized to be an auditor of a company under section 205 of the
Business Corporations Act
to audit and report on the accounts of the agency at least once each
year.
(5)
The agency must, within 90 days of the fiscal year end, submit
annually to the minister in a form approved by the minister
(a)
a report of the agency on its operations for the preceding fiscal
year,
(b)
a financial statement showing the assets and liabilities of the agency
as of the end of the preceding fiscal year, and
(c)
the annual report of the auditor of the agency.
(6)
The report and financial statement referred to in subsection (5) must
be laid before the Legislative Assembly within 120 days after the end
of the fiscal year for which the report and statement are made if the
Legislative Assembly is then sitting, or within 15 days after the
opening of the following session.
Money received by Innovate BC
17
Despite the
Financial Administration Act
, section 14 (1) of the
Financial Administration Act
does not apply to the agency, its officers or its employees for the
purposes of this Act.
Power to make regulations
18
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
