Queen's Printer Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 394
Definition
1
In this Act,
"Queen's Printer"
means the Queen's Printer and Comptroller of Stationery for British
Columbia, appointed under the
Public Service Act
.
General duties
2
The Queen's Printer, under the direction of the minister, has the
management and control of the printing, publishing and stationery
services of the ministry, and has the powers and must perform the
duties conferred on or assigned to the Queen's Printer under this Act
or any other Act.
Clerk to provide Queen's Printer with certified copies of Acts
3
The Clerk of the Legislative Assembly must provide to the Queen's
Printer a certified copy of each Act of the Legislature as soon as the
Act has received assent, or, if a Bill has been reserved, as soon as
assent has been signified in accordance with the
Constitution Act, 1867
.
Clerk to provide copy of journals and of sessional papers
4
The Clerk of the Legislative Assembly must provide to the Queen's
Printer, as soon as practicable after the close of each session,
(a)
a certified indexed copy of the journals of that session, and
(b)
a certified indexed copy of the sessional papers, consisting of
ministerial reports and other documents placed before the Legislature
at that session and ordered to be printed.
Printing, delivery, publishing and disposal of public documents
5
(1)
As soon as practicable after the close of each session, the Queen's
Printer must make arrangements for the following:
(a)
the printing of the Acts, journals, sessional papers and other public
documents placed before the Legislature during that session;
(b)
the delivery of the number of printed copies of the Acts, journals,
sessional papers and other public documents referred to in paragraph
(a) that the minister directs to
(i)
each member of the Legislative Assembly on request, and
(ii)
other persons, institutions, ministries and representative bodies, in
or out of British Columbia, as approved by the minister.
(2)
After delivery under subsection (1) (b) is complete, the
Queen's Printer may make arrangements for the publishing of printed
copies of the Acts, journals, sessional papers and other public
documents referred to in that subsection as well as for the sale or
transfer, with or without charge, of those printed copies.
Cost, price and manner of printing public documents
6
(1)
The printing and delivery of printed copies of the Acts, journals,
sessional papers and other public documents under section 5 (1) must
be done at the public expense.
(2)
The printing, delivery, publishing, selling and transferring of
printed copies of the Acts, journals, sessional papers and other
public documents under section 5 must be done in the manner determined
by the Queen's Printer.
(3)
For the purposes of section 5 (2),
(a)
the Queen's Printer may set prices that may be charged, and
(b)
a person must not charge more than the price set by the Queen's
Printer.
Publication of official Gazette
7
The Queen's Printer must make arrangements for the printing and
publishing of the official Gazette of British Columbia, known as The
British Columbia Gazette, for the publication of proclamations,
official and other notices and of all matters as may be required.
Price and manner of printing of official Gazette
8
(1)
The printing and publication of the Gazette under section 7 must be
done in the manner determined by the Queen's Printer.
(2)
The Queen's Printer may determine
(a)
the price of a subscription to the Gazette, and
(b)
the scale of charges for advertising in the Gazette.
Deemed printing
8.1
A printed copy of an Act, journal, sessional paper or other public
document to which this Act applies, or of the Gazette, is deemed to
have been printed and published by the Queen's Printer if printed and
published
(a)
on the direction of the Queen's Printer, and
(b)
in accordance with this Act.
Repealed
9
[Repealed 2015-23-69.]
Annual statement and report
10
(1)
The Queen's Printer must prepare a statement of accounts made up to
March 31 in each year and at other times the minister directs.
(2)
The Queen's Printer must make an annual report to the minister, and
must incorporate in it the annual statement of accounts.
Repealed
11
[Repealed 2015-23-69.]
Power to make regulations
12
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
