Rent Distress Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 403
Definition
1
In this Act,
"penalty"
includes
(a)
all sums due for taxes or rates,
(b)
all sums ordered to be paid by a justice, and
(c)
all other sums that are collected summarily by distress or seizure and
sale of goods.
Property exempt from distress
2
(1)
The following personal property is not liable to seizure by distress
for rent or penalty:
(a)
the beds, bedding and bedsteads, including cradles and carriages in
ordinary use by the debtor and the debtor's family;
(b)
the necessary and ordinary wearing apparel of the debtor and the
debtor's family;
(c)
one cooking stove with pipe and furnishings, one other heating stove
with pipe, one set of cooking utensils, one lamp, one table, one
washstand with furnishings, 6 towels, one clock, one broom, 2 pails,
one axe, one saw, one shovel, one washtub, one washboard, 3 smoothing
irons, one sewing machine and attachments in domestic use;
(d)
for the debtor and for each member of the debtor's family, one chair,
one plate, one cup and saucer, one knife, one fork, one spoon;
(e)
all necessary fuel, meat, fish, flour and vegetables for the ordinary
consumption of the debtor and the debtor's family for 30 days;
(f)
tools and implements of or personal property ordinarily used in the
debtor's trade or occupation, to the value of $200.
(2)
The debtor may select from the tools, implements or personal property
referred to in subsection (1) (f) the things that are exempted from
seizure under that paragraph.
Property of others is exempt
3
(1)
In this section:
"collateral"
means personal property in which a security interest has been taken;
"perfected"
has the same meaning as in the
Personal Property Security Act
;
"proceeds"
has the same meaning as in the
Personal Property Security Act
;
"purchase money security interest"
means
(a)
a security interest taken in collateral to the extent that it secures
payment of all or part of its purchase price and the credit charges
for the purchase, and
(b)
a security interest taken in collateral by a person who gives value
for the purpose of enabling the tenant to acquire rights in the
collateral, to the extent that the value is applied to acquire the
rights, and value includes interest charges,
but does not include
(c)
an interest of a lessor under a transaction of sale by and lease back
to the seller;
"security interest"
means an interest in personal property that secures payment or
performance of an obligation;
"tenant"
includes, subject to section 4, a subtenant, the assign of the tenant
or any person in actual occupation of the premises under or with the
assent of the tenant during the currency of the lease, or while the
rent is due or in arrears, whether or not the subtenant, the assign or
the person has attorned to or become the tenant of the landlord.
(2)
A landlord must not distrain for rent the personal property of a
person except that of the tenant or person who is liable for the rent,
although that property is found on the premises.
(3)
Subsection (2) does not apply
(a)
in favour of a person claiming title under an execution against the
tenant,
(b)
in favour of a person whose title is derived by purchase, gift,
transfer or assignment from the tenant, whether absolute or in trust,
(c)
if personal property has been exchanged between tenants or persons by
the one borrowing or hiring from the other for the purpose of
defeating the claim of or the right of distress by the landlord, or
(d)
if the property is claimed by
(i)
the tenant's spouse,
(ii)
the tenant's child,
(iii)
the spouse of the tenant's child,
(iv)
any other relative of the tenant living on the premises as a member of
the tenant's family, or
(v)
a person whose title is derived by purchase, gift, transfer or
assignment from a relative to whom the restriction does not apply.
(4)
A landlord's distress has priority over a security interest in the
goods of the tenant other than a purchase money security interest in
goods or proceeds of those goods that is perfected at the date of
distress.
(5)
This section does not exempt from distress personal property in a
store or shop managed or controlled by an agent or employee of the
owner of the personal property if
(a)
the clerk or agent is also the tenant and in default, and
(b)
the rent is due in respect of the premises rented if the personal
property would have been liable to seizure but for this section.
(6)
A landlord is not liable for the distress of personal property to
which the restriction in subsection (2) applies, unless
(a)
the owner of the property makes a statutory declaration containing an
inventory of the property and alleging that it is the owner's property
and that the person who is liable for the rent has no right or
interest in the property,
(b)
the owner serves the declaration on the landlord or the bailiff or
person employed by the landlord or the bailiff to levy the distress
before the distress is levied or before the property has been
appraised and sold, and
(c)
the landlord distrains or proceeds with the distress after the service
of the declaration.
Lodger may protect property from distress
4
(1)
If a superior landlord levies, or authorizes to be levied, distress on
personal property of a boarder or lodger for arrears of rent due to
the superior landlord by the superior landlord's immediate tenant, the
boarder or lodger may serve the superior landlord, or the bailiff or
other person employed by the superior landlord to levy the distress,
with an affidavit, made by the boarder or lodger, setting out the
following:
(a)
that the immediate tenant has no right or beneficial interest in the
property distrained or threatened to be distrained;
(b)
that the property is in the lawful possession of the boarder or
lodger;
(c)
that nothing is due by way of rent or otherwise from the boarder or
lodger, or the amount, if any, due from the boarder or lodger to the
immediate tenant.
(2)
The boarder or lodger may pay to the superior landlord, or to the
bailiff or other person employed by the superior landlord, the amount,
if any, due or as much as is sufficient to discharge the claim of the
superior landlord.
(3)
To the affidavit must be annexed a correct inventory, signed by the
boarder or lodger, of the property referred to in the affidavit.
Lodger may commence action for recovery of property
5
If, after being served with the affidavit and inventory, and after the
boarder or lodger has paid or tendered to the superior landlord,
bailiff, or other person employed by the superior landlord the amount,
if any, which by section 4 the boarder or lodger is authorized to pay,
the superior landlord, bailiff or other person levies or proceeds with
distress on the property of the boarder or lodger,
(a)
the superior landlord, bailiff or other person is deemed guilty of
illegal distress,
(b)
the boarder or lodger may commence an action for recovery of the
property in any court of competent jurisdiction, and
(c)
the superior landlord is also liable to an action for damages at the
suit of the boarder or lodger.
Lodger may pay rent to superior landlord
6
Payment made by a boarder or lodger under section 4 is deemed a valid
payment on account of the amount due from the boarder or lodger to the
immediate tenant mentioned in section 4.
Property distrained may be appraised and sold
7
(1)
This section applies if
(a)
personal property has been distrained for rent due, and
(b)
the tenant or owner of the property distrained does not, within
5 days after distress is taken and notice of it is left at the
dwelling house or other place on the premises charged with the rent
distrained for, commence an action for recovery of the property and
serve notice of the action on the person distraining.
(2)
After distress, notice and the expiration of the 5 days, the person
distraining must have the distrained property appraised by 2
appraisers, who must be sworn before a justice or commissioner for
taking affidavits.
(3)
After appraisal the person distraining may sell the property
distrained.
(4)
The person distraining must
(a)
apply the sale proceeds to satisfy the rent in arrears, the charges of
distress, appraisement and sale, and
(b)
pay the surplus, if any, to the sheriff for the owner's use.
Corn, hay and grain may be seized, detained and sold
8
A person having rent due may seize corn, grain or hay on any part of
the land charged with the rent, and must detain it in the nature of a
distress in the place where it is found, until it is recovered by the
owner or sold under section 7.
Triple damages for pound breach
9
On pound breach or rescue of personal property distrained for rent,
the person aggrieved is entitled to recover triple damages and costs
of action against the offender, or against the owner of the property
distrained, if the property later comes into the owner's possession.
Double damage and costs against wrongful distress
10
If distress and sale is made for rent alleged to be due, and no rent
is due to the person distraining, or to the person in whose name or
right the distress is taken, then the owner of the property distrained
and sold, or the owner's personal representatives, may, by proceeding
against the person distraining, or the personal representatives,
recover double the value of the property distrained and sold, together
with full costs of the proceedings.
Landlord may distrain and sell property fraudulently carried off the
premises
11
If a tenant or lessee of land, the rent of which is due, fraudulently
or clandestinely takes from the premises the tenant's or lessee's
personal property, to prevent the landlord or lessor from distraining
it for arrears of rent, the landlord or lessor, or any person lawfully
empowered by the landlord or lessor for that purpose, within 30 days
after the taking of the property, may seize that property, wherever
found, as distress for the arrears of rent, and dispose of the
property as if the property had been distrained by the lessor or
landlord on the premises for the arrears of rent.
Exception in case of genuine sale for valuable consideration
12
A person entitled to arrears of rent must not take or seize property
as distress for the arrears if the property was sold before seizure is
made, in good faith and for valuable consideration, to a person not
privy to the fraud.
Penalty for fraudulently conveying away or concealing property
13
(1)
A tenant or lessee who fraudulently removes and conveys away the
tenant's or lessee's personal property and every person who wilfully
and knowingly aids the tenant or lessee in doing so, or in concealing
it, must pay to the landlord or lessor double the value of the
property carried off or concealed.
(2)
The penalty under subsection (1) may be recovered by action in a court
of competent jurisdiction.
If property is not worth more than $250, landlord may complain to
justices
14
(1)
If the personal property fraudulently carried off or concealed is not
worth more than $250, the landlord, the landlord's bailiff, employee
or agent on the landlord's behalf, may exhibit a complaint in writing
against the offender before 2 or more justices who
(a)
reside near the place where the property was removed, or near the
place where it was found, and
(b)
are not interested in the land from which the property was removed.
(2)
On a complaint under subsection (1) the justices may
(a)
summon the parties concerned,
(b)
examine the facts and all proper witnesses on oath or affirmation,
(c)
in a summary way determine whether the person is guilty of the offence
with which the person is charged, and
(d)
inquire into the value of the property in question.
(3)
On proof of the offence, the justices must order the offender to pay
double the value of the property to the landlord, at a time the
justices appoint.
(4)
In case of default of payment of the amount to be paid,
(a)
it may be levied by distress and sale of the personal property of the
offender, and
(b)
for want of distress the offender must be imprisoned for
6 months, unless the money is paid.
Landlord may break open house to seize property fraudulently secured
in it
15
(1)
If personal property fraudulently or clandestinely conveyed or carried
away by a tenant or lessee, or other person acting for or aiding the
tenant or lessee, is put or found in a building or place, and is
locked up or secured to prevent the property from being taken or
seized as distress for arrears of rent, the landlord or the landlord's
employee, bailiff or other person may take and seize as distress for
rent that property, after requesting the assistance of the peace
officer of the district or place where it is suspected to be
concealed.
(2)
The peace officer is required to aid and assist, but in the case of a
dwelling house, an oath must be sworn before a justice showing
reasonable grounds to suspect that the property is inside it.
(3)
The entry and seizure must be in the daytime and those persons may
take and seize property for the arrears of rent as might have been
done if the property had been found in an open field or place.
Landlord may distrain stock or crops and give notice
16
(1)
A lessor or landlord, or the lessor's or landlord's bailiff or agent,
may as distress for arrears of rent
(a)
take and seize,
(i)
any cattle or stock of the tenant feeding or pasturing on any common
appendant or appurtenant or belonging to any part of the leased
premises, and
(ii)
all sorts of corn, grass, hops, roots, fruits, pulse or other product
growing on any part of the leased estates,
(b)
cut, gather, make, cure, carry and lay up, when ripe, in the barns or
other proper place on the leased premises and afterwards appraise the
same, and if there is no barn or proper place on the leased premises,
then at any other barn or place that the lessor or landlord hires or
procures for that purpose, and as near as may be to the premises, and
(c)
appraise or dispose of the same toward satisfaction of the rent for
which the distress is taken, and of the charges of the distress,
appraisement and sale, in the same manner as other property may be
seized, distrained and disposed of.
(2)
Notice of the place where the property distrained is deposited must,
within one week after depositing it, be given to the lessee or tenant,
or left at the lessee's or tenant's last residence.
(3)
If, after distress for arrears of rent taken for the products
mentioned, and before they are ripe, cut, cured or gathered, the
tenant or lessee, or the tenant's or lessee's personal
representatives, pays to the lessor or landlord, or to the lessor's or
landlord's agent, the rent in arrears, together with the costs and
charges of distress, or makes lawful tender of the arrears and costs,
the distress must cease and the products mentioned and distrained must
be delivered to the lessee or tenant, or the personal representative.
Property may be secured and sold on the premises
17
(1)
A person lawfully taking distress for arrears in rent may
(a)
impound or otherwise secure the distress so made on that part of the
premises chargeable with the rent as is convenient, and
(b)
appraise and dispose of it on the premises in the manner a person
distraining for rent may do off the premises.
(2)
A person has free access to any part of the premises where distress
for rent is impounded and secured, in order to view, appraise, buy and
remove property that is the subject of distress.
(3)
If a pound breach or rescue is made of the property distrained and
impounded or secured, the person aggrieved has the same remedy for
pound breach or rescue given by section 9.
Liability for excessive distress
18
If property is distrained for rent justly due, the person taking the
distress is not liable to any action for excessive distress because
more property is distrained than is reasonably necessary to satisfy
the rent due with the expenses, if within 3 days after the taking of
the distress the person abandons the excess and holds under the
distress no more property than is reasonably necessary to satisfy the
rent due with the expenses.
Distress not unlawful because of subsequent irregularity
19
If distress is made for rent or taxes due or for a penalty legally
imposed, and any irregularity or unlawful act is afterwards done by
the party distraining, or by the distraining party's agent, the
distress is not unlawful, nor is the party making it a trespasser, but
the party aggrieved by the unlawful act or irregularity may recover in
any court of competent jurisdiction satisfaction for the special
damage the aggrieved party sustains, together with the aggrieved
party's costs of suit.
Tenants not to recover by action after tender of amends
20
A tenant or lessee or other person is not entitled to recover under
section 19 in an action for an unlawful act or irregularity if
tender of amends is made by the party distraining, or by the
distraining party's agent, before the action brought.
Fees according to Schedule
21
(1)
A person is not entitled to fees, charges or expenses for levying
distress, or for doing any act or thing in relation to it, other than
those specified in and authorized in the Schedule.
(2)
If the rent or penalty exceeds $100, the fees, charges and expenses
specified in Scale 1 of the Schedule must be allowed.
(3)
If the rent or penalty does not exceed $100, the fees, charges and
expenses specified in Scale 2 of the Schedule must be allowed.
(4)
If there is any dispute over the fees, charges and expenses between
the parties the fees, charges and expenses must be reviewed by the
registrar of the Supreme Court, and the registrar may make an order
the registrar thinks fit for the costs of the review.
Persons levying distress to give copy of charges to party distrained
22
A person who makes and levies distress must give a copy of the demand,
and of all the costs and charges of the distress, signed by the
person, to the person on whose property the distress is levied.
Schedule
Scale 1 — For Distress if the Amount of Rent or
Penalty Exceeds $100
For levying distress —
3% on the first $300 or less.
2 1/2% on the excess of over $300 up to and including $1 000.
And 1% on the excess over $1 000.
For person in possession, $6 per day.
For advertisements, the sum actually and necessarily paid.
For commission to the auctioneer on sale by auction —
7 1/2% on the sum realized, not exceeding $500.
5% on the next $1 000 or part.
4% on the next $1 000 or part.
And 3% on any sum exceeding $2 500.
Reasonable fees, charges and expenses, subject to section 21 (4), if
distress is withdrawn or if no sale takes place, and for negotiations
leading to the withdrawal.
For appraisal, whether by one appraiser or more, 2¢ on the dollar on the
value as appraised.
Travelling expenses actually and necessarily incurred in levying
distress, not exceeding 15.6¢/km one way.
Scale 2 — For Distress If the Amount of Rent or
Penalty Does Not Exceed $100
$
For levying distress
5.00
For person in possession, per day
6.00
For appraisal, whether by one appraiser or more
5.00
For all expenses of advertisements, if any, the sum actually paid.
For catalogues, sale and commission, and delivery, 10% on the net
proceeds of the sale.
If distress is withdrawn or if no sale takes place, 10% of the
amount of rent or penalty or claim.
For removal at request of party whose goods are distrained, the
reasonable expenses attending the removal.
