Seed Potato Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 421
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"committee"
means the seed control committee of a seed potato control area;
"owner"
means a person who
(a)
is registered as the owner of land in the land title office,
(b)
is a purchaser of land under an agreement for purchase registered in
the land title office, and is, by the terms of the agreement liable to
pay the taxes on the land, or
(c)
is a pre-emptor, homesteader, purchaser or lessee of land from the
government,
and includes the authorized agent or representative of an owner;
"seed"
means certified potato tuber for reproduction purposes;
"seed potato control area"
means a seed potato control area under this Act.
Meeting of owners
2
(1)
Any 5 owners of land in an area that they propose for a seed potato
control area may call a meeting of the owners of land in that area by
giving public notice of the meeting.
(2)
The notice must
(a)
state the time and place of the meeting, and
(b)
describe the area proposed for a seed potato control area.
(3)
The notice must be given
(a)
by posting a copy of it, at least 15 days before the day of the
meeting,
(i)
at each post office serving the area, or
(ii)
at any 2 conspicuous public places in the area, and
(b)
by publishing the notice at least one week before the day of the
meeting in one issue of a newspaper published in British Columbia and
circulating in the area.
(4)
An owner of land in the area may attend and take part in the
discussion at the meeting.
(5)
A majority of the owners present at the meeting may decide to
circulate a petition for a seed potato control area.
Petition for seed potato control area
3
The petition must
(a)
be addressed to the Lieutenant Governor in Council,
(b)
be in the prescribed form,
(c)
describe the proposed seed potato control area,
(d)
state the variety or varieties of seeds proposed to be produced in
that area, and
(e)
state the names of 3 persons whom the petitioners want appointed as
members of the seed control committee of the seed potato control area,
and who have expressed in writing their willingness to act.
Constitution of seed potato control area
4
(1)
If the petition is signed by at least 80% of the owners of land in the
proposed seed potato control area and is presented with proof of
compliance with section 2, the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by
order,
(a)
constitute the land described in the petition a seed potato control
area, under the name considered advisable, and
(b)
appoint as the seed control committee of that control area the persons
nominated in the petition and one other person nominated by the
minister.
(2)
In constituting the seed potato control area, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council may establish different boundaries for the seed potato
control area than those set out in the petition.
(3)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by the order constituting the
seed potato control area or by a subsequent order, prescribe the
varieties of seeds that may be grown in the seed potato control area.
(4)
For the purposes of subsection (3), the varieties prescribed in the
order may differ from those stated in the petition.
Status of seed control committee
5
(1)
The members of the committee and their successors in office are a
corporation under the name set out in the order.
(2)
The order is conclusive evidence of that all proceedings leading up to
the constitution of the seed potato control area are regular and that
the committee is appointed and incorporated under this Act.
(3)
The number of members constituting the committee, the term of office
of the members, the making of appointments of members and the
constitution of a quorum are to be governed by the regulations.
(4)
There must always be one member of the committee who is the nominee of
the minister.
(5)
The other members must be nominees of the owners of land in the
control area.
Dissolution of seed control area and committee
6
For sufficient cause and on the terms considered proper, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, cancel a seed potato
control area and dissolve the committee.
Functions of committee
7
(1)
To control, facilitate and protect the growing of seed in the seed
potato control area, the committee may carry out and enforce this Act
and the regulations.
(2)
Without limiting subsection (1), the powers and duties of the
committee extend to the following:
(a)
employing, directing and supervising employees and paying their
salaries or wages;
(b)
keeping accurate records of the work done and of the costs and
expenses incurred by the committee;
(c)
submitting reports required by the minister;
(d)
exercising other powers and performing other duties prescribed by the
regulations.
(3)
The committee must not undertake any expenditure or incur any
liability in excess of the money contributed for the purposes of this
Act by the seed growers and owners of land in the seed potato control
area.
Restriction of growing to authorized varieties
8
An owner or occupier of land in a seed potato control area must not
grow or permit to grow on the land any seed of a variety other than
that prescribed under this Act to be grown there.
Offence and penalty
9
(1)
A person who contravenes any provision of this Act or the regulations,
or who hinders or obstructs the committee or any member or employee of
the committee in the performance of their duties or powers under this
Act commits an offence.
(2)
A person who commits an offence under this section is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100.
Power to make regulations
10
(1)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
(2)
Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations:
(a)
defining, redefining, reducing or extending the limits of a seed
potato control area;
(b)
prescribing the powers and duties of committees under this Act, the
number of members who may be nominated by the owners, the term of
office of members, the manner of nominating and appointing members and
the number of members required for a quorum;
(c)
regulating the times of meetings and the manner of calling and
conducting meetings of owners of land in a seed potato control area,
the method of voting and the qualification of voters at those
meetings;
(d)
prescribing the methods of seed potato control work to be followed by
the committee for a seed potato control area;
(e)
prescribing the varieties of seed to be grown in a seed potato control
area;
(f)
defining a variety area in a seed potato control area, and prescribing
the varieties of seeds that may or may not be grown or produced in a
variety area;
(g)
cancelling a variety area;
(h)
providing for the inspection, testing and approval of the seed grown
or produced and the inspection of variety areas;
(i)
requiring and compelling the owners and occupiers of land in a seed
potato control area to eliminate defective plants that are injurious,
or that might become injurious, to seed grown in an area;
(j)
governing the periods during which and the extent to which elimination
of defective plants may be practised.
