







B.C. Reg. 291/78

O.C. 1906/78


Filed July 14, 1978






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Prisons and Reformatories Act (Canada)


Procedures and Rules — Remission for Industrious Behaviour






Remission credit categories




1


Remission awards shall be based on a prisoner's level of industrious
performance as reported in appraisals of his performance and shall
result in a remission credit in accordance with the following
categories:




(a)

average performance — 15 days remission credit;




(b)

fair performance — 8 to 14 days remission credit;




(c)

unsatisfactory performance — 0 to 7 days remission credit.






Remission Award Committee




2


A Remission Award Committee shall be established in every British
Columbia correctional centre, camp or unit.






Composition of committee




3

(1)


The Remission Award Committee shall be composed of an officer in
charge of the unit who shall be the chairperson, a shift supervisor
and one other officer appointed by the local director.




(2)

In those correction centres, camps or units where subsection (1) is
declared to be inapplicable by the commissioner, the Remission Award
Committee shall be composed of such officer(s) as designated by the
local director.






Committee responsibilities




4


The responsibilities of the Remission Award Committee shall be as
follows:




(a)

to meet monthly and consider prisoner performance appraisals submitted
by Corrections Branch officers;




(b)

to determine the number of days of remission to be credited each
sentenced prisoner;




(c)

to notify prisoners, records officers and any other persons deemed
advisable of the remission award.






Prisoner performance appraisal




5


A prisoner performance appraisal shall include the evaluation of a
prisoner's industrious application to the program in which he
participates, which may include work, training, leisure, living unit
or community activities, and shall include an evaluation of the degree
to which he cooperates with others in the course of his participation
in these activities.






Example of performance




6


Every person submitting a performance appraisal shall consider the
categories provided under section 1 and shall provide example(s) of
performance relative to the category selected.






Minimum appraisals per program activity




7


There shall be a minimum of one prisoner appraisal per month from each
program activity described in section 5 in which the prisoner
participates.






When remission awards credited




8


Remission awards shall be credited at month end or at times of
transfer.






Remission for incomplete months




9


Remission awards for incomplete months shall be made on a pro rata
basis.






Review of remission award




10

(1)


A prisoner who is not satisfied with a remission award may, within 7
days of receipt of said award, apply in writing to the district
director for a review of the decision made by the Remission Award
Committee.




(2)

Within 2 weeks of receipt of a prisoner's request for review, the
district director shall examine the basis on which the Remission Award
Committee's decision was made, determine the validity of the
prisoner's request, and advise the prisoner and the chairperson of the
Remission Award Committee of his decision to




(a)

confirm the remission award credited,




(b)

increase the number of remission days credited,




(c)

reduce the number of remission days credited, or




(d)

direct the Remission Award Committee to re-examine its decision.






Indeterminate sentences




11


A prisoner serving the indeterminate portion of a
definite-interdeterminate sentence shall be eligible to receive a
remission award.



[Provisions of the
Prisons and Reformatories Act
(Canada), R.S.C. 1985, c. P-20, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 6 (1)]



