B.C. Reg. 12/2021
O.C. 35/2021
Deposited January 26, 2021
effective February 5, 2021
This consolidation is current to February 2, 2021.
See the
Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2021
for amendments effective after February 2, 2021.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Professional Governance Act
Applied Science Technologists
and Technicians Regulation
Definitions
1
(1)
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Professional Governance Act
;
"engineering discipline"
means agricultural, biomedical, bioresource, biosystems, building,
chemical, civil, computer, electrical, environmental, food, forest,
geological, geomatics, industrial, marine, mechanical, mechatronics,
metallurgical, mining, naval architecture, nuclear, petroleum,
software and structural engineering and engineering physics;
"practice of applied science technology"
, subject to subsection (2), means the provision of
(a)
advice or services that are based on an engineering discipline, or
(b)
advice or services that are ancillary to those described in paragraph
(a);
"reserved practices of professional engineering or geoscience"
means the practice reserved under section 5 or 9 of the Engineers and
Geoscientists Regulation.
(2)
The practice of applied science technology does not include the
provision of advice or services within the reserved practices of
professional engineering or geoscience except under the supervision of
a registrant of the Association of Professional Engineers and
Geoscientists of the Province of British Columbia.
Regulated practice
2
For the purposes of the definition of "regulated practice" in section
3
[definitions in respect of the Applied Science Technologists and
Technicians of British Columbia]
of Schedule 1 of the Act, the practice of applied science technology
is prescribed.
Reserved title
3
For the purposes of section 51 (1) (a)
[reserved titles]
of the Act, the following titles are reserved for the exclusive use of
registrants:
(a)
"applied science technologist";
(b)
"applied science technologist trainee";
(c)
"certified technician";
(d)
"certified technician trainee";
(e)
"registered technical specialist".
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Professional Governance Act
, S.B.C. 2018, c. 47, ss. 118 and 119.]
