B.C. Reg. 203/2010
O.C. 466/2010
Deposited June 25, 2010
effective July 1, 2010
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Body Armour Control Act
Body Armour Control Regulation
[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]
Definition and interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation,
"Act"
means the
Body Armour Control Act
.
(2)
For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "body armour"
in section 1 of the Act, the following garments and items are
prescribed as body armour:
(a)
a garment or item designed, intended or adapted for the purpose of
protecting the body from puncture or stab wounds intended to be
inflicted by another person;
(b)
panels or plates that
(i)
protect the body from projectiles discharged from a firearm or
puncture or stab wounds, and
(ii)
are designed to be inserted into pockets of vests, jackets or other
garments to create or enhance body armour.
Exemptions
2
(1)
Section 2 (2) of the Act does not apply to a person described in
section 2 (3) (a) or (b) of the Act when the person is not in the
course of employment for the period during which the person holds a
licence referred to, and is employed to perform work described, in
section 2 (3) (a) or (b) of the Act.
(2)
For the purposes of section 2 (3) (c) of the Act, section 2 (2) of the
Act does not apply to a person for the period during which the person
(a)
is employed as a peace officer,
(b)
is employed by the government, a government corporation, as defined in
the
Financial Administration Act
, the government of Canada or a local authority, if wearing body
armour is required or allowed in the course of the person's
employment,
(c)
is employed as a security guard at a gaming facility, as defined in
the
Gaming Control Act
, and registered as a gaming worker under that Act, or
(d)
is an individual who holds a valid licence issued under the
Firearms Act
(Canada) authorizing the individual to acquire or possess a firearm.
Discretionary exemptions
3
(1)
Despite any provision of the Act but subject to subsection (5) of this
section, the registrar may exempt a person from section 2 (2) of the
Act for a period not exceeding 90 days if the registrar is satisfied
that
(a)
the person does not reside in British Columbia, and
(b)
the nature of the person's proposed activities in British Columbia
make it desirable that the person possess body armour.
(2)
Despite any provision of the Act, but subject to subsection (5), the
registrar may exempt a person from section 2 (2) of the Act for a
period not exceeding 90 days if the registrar is satisfied that
because of an imminent risk to the person's safety, it is desirable
that the person be authorized to possess body armour.
(3)
A person may request an exemption under subsection (1) by providing
the following information in the form specified by the registrar:
(a)
particulars respecting the person's identity, including name, date and
place of birth, gender and citizenship or residence status and the
person's permanent residence address, telephone number and email
address, if any;
(b)
temporary address in British Columbia;
(c)
proposed activities in British Columbia in relation to which the
person requests the exemption.
(4)
A person may request an exemption under subsection (2) by providing
the following information in the form specified by the registrar:
(a)
particulars respecting the person's identity, including name, date and
place of birth, gender and citizenship or residence status and the
person's permanent residence address, telephone number and email
address, if any;
(b)
documented evidence, satisfactory to the registrar, of the imminent
risk to the person's safety.
(5)
The registrar must hold a hearing before refusing to grant an
exemption under subsection (1) or (2) and must provide written reasons
for the refusal.
(6)
The registrar must provide a person granted an exemption under
subsection (1) or (2) with written evidence of the exemption setting
out the period of the exemption.
(7)
On application, the registrar may extend an exemption under this
section for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each.
Exemption conditions
4
(1)
A person who is exempt from the requirement to hold a body armour
permit must provide to a vendor from which the person is purchasing
body armour, and allow the vendor to retain, the following
information:
(a)
the full name, residential address and telephone number of the exempt
person;
(b)
if exempt under section 2 (1), the exempt person's security worker
licence or security business licence, as applicable;
(c)
if exempt under section 2 (2) (a), the name and address of the peace
officer's employer and the peace officer's badge;
(d)
if exempt under section 2 (2) (b), the name and address of the
employer and the signed statement of the employer, or a person on
behalf of the employer, that the exempt person is required or
authorized to wear body armour in the course of their employment, or a
copy of that signed statement;
(e)
if exempt under section 2 (2) (c), the name and address of the
employer and the card number of the gaming worker's official
identification card;
(f)
if exempt under section 2 (2) (d), the licence number of the licence
issued to the person under the
Firearms Act
(Canada);
(g)
if exempt under section 3, a copy of the written evidence referred to
in section 3 (6).
(2)
A person who is exempt from the requirement to hold a body armour
permit must provide to a vendor from which the person is purchasing
body armour a piece of identification that displays a photograph of
the exempt person.
(3)
On the request of a peace officer or inspector, a person who is exempt
from the requirement to hold a body armour permit and has body armour
in the person's possession must give the peace officer or inspector
the information, and show the peace officer or inspector the
documents, referred to in subsection (1) (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) in
respect of the person's exemption.
[am. B.C. Reg. 64/2021, s. 3.]
Applying for a body armour permit
5
An applicant for a body armour permit must provide the registrar with
all the following information or records, as applicable:
(a)
particulars respecting the applicant's identity and location,
including name, date and place of birth, gender, citizenship or
residence status, address, telephone number and email address, if any;
(b)
particulars respecting the applicant's physical appearance, including
hair colour, eye colour, weight and height;
(c)
a recent photograph of the applicant;
(d)
particulars respecting any unresolved charge, or conviction entered,
against the applicant for a crime;
(e)
whether the applicant holds or has previously held a body armour
permit;
(f)
particulars of the reason the applicant needs to possess body armour
and, if the reasons relate to the applicant's employment, the name of
the employer, the employer's address and the applicant's position with
the employer.
Prescribed checks
6
For the purposes of section 4 (2) (b) of the Act, the registrar must
carry out the following checks in respect of an applicant for a new
body armour permit or the renewal of a body armour permit:
(a)
a criminal record check;
(b)
a police information check;
(c)
a correctional service information check.
Maximum term
7
For the purposes of section 6 (1) of the Act, the registrar may issue
or renew a body armour permit for a term not exceeding 5 years.
Identification requirements
8
A person who purchases body armour must show the security business
licensee or security worker licensee from whom the purchase is made
current identification that displays a photograph of the purchaser.
Fees
9
For the purposes of section 4 (2) (c) of the Act, the fee
(a)
for a body armour permit for a term of up to 5 years is $90, and
(b)
for the renewal of a body armour permit for a term of up to 5 years is
$45.
Offences
10
(1)
A person who contravenes section 4 (2) commits an offence.
(2)
A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on
conviction to the penalties set out in section 14 (1) of the Act.
Administrative penalties
11
Section 8 (3) of the Act is prescribed for the purposes of section 12
(4) of the Act.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Body Armour Control Act
, S.B.C. 2009, c. 24, s. 22.]
