B.C. Reg. 227/67
O.C. 2916/67
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Park Act
Class C Parks Regulations
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 81/2022]
Interpretation
1
In these regulations, unless context otherwise requires:
"board"
or
"park board"
means the board for a Class C park appointed under the provisions of
the
Park Act
;
"park"
means any park of Class C in the Province of British Columbia
constituted under the provisions of the
Park Act
or existing under the provisions of the
Forest Act
or the
Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act
at the enactment of the
Park Act
.
[am. B.C. Regs. 109/2002, s. 1; 81/2022, s. 1.]
Part 1 — Park Boards
Appointment of board
2
The minister shall, on appointing the park board, designate one member
to be chair of the board, and the board may appoint such other
officers from the membership as they deem necessary and shall notify
the minister of the names and addresses of all such officers.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
Meetings of park boards
3
Every park board shall meet for the transaction of its business once
each calendar year at a time and place determined by the board, and at
other times shall meet at the call of the chair as the business of the
board may require.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
Request for meeting
4
The chair shall call a meeting of the board within 14 days of the
receipt of a request in writing setting out the purpose of such a
meeting made by 2 members of the board. Seven days' notice of the
meeting shall be given by the chair, provided such notice may be
waived by all members of the board present at such a meeting.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
Minister may direct meeting
5
The board shall hold other meetings when directed to do so by the
minister.
Quorum
6
A majority of the members of the board present at a duly called
meeting of the board shall constitute a quorum competent to transact
the business of the board.
Chair to preside
7
The chair shall preside at meetings of the board, and shall exercise
one vote in the decisions of the board.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
When no chair present
8
In the absence of the chair, the members present at any duly called
meeting of the board shall elect a chair, who shall preside at that
meeting.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
Records and accounts
9
It shall be a duty of every park board to prepare and maintain proper
and adequate records and accounts of the business and meetings of the
board. Once each year, and at such other times as the minister may
require, the board shall prepare and submit to the minister a report
of the activities of the board's administration and a financial
statement setting forth the assets and liabilities of the board and
the receipts and disbursements of the past year and the accounts and
sums payable and receivable by the board. The board shall, whenever
required by the minister, submit reports of all park use permits
issued by the board and on any other matters pertaining to the
management of the board.
Funds
10
Funds received on behalf of any park board shall be deposited to the
account of that board, in a chartered bank, within 7 days of their
receipt.
Signing officers
11
The chair and secretary of each park board shall comprise the signing
officers of that board and are authorized to execute, jointly, such
contracts, agreements and documents, and to receive and disburse such
funds, on behalf of the board as the board may determine.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 2.]
Seal
12
The board may, by resolution, adopt a form of seal and, when affixed
by the proper officers of the board to any document, it shall operate
as the act or execution thereof by the board.
Resignations
13
(1)
Every member of a park board who for any reason desires to resign from
that board shall submit to the minister the member's resignation in
writing.
(2)
Every member of a park board who is absent from 3 consecutive meetings
of that board shall be deemed to have resigned from the board and may
be reappointed or replaced by the minister.
(3)
The minister may, at the minister's discretion, discharge or dismiss
any member or any officer of a park board where the minister deems it
to be in the public interest.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 3.]
Business of park boards
14
No member shall give any instruction or direction, enter into any
contract or agreement, or otherwise conduct business on behalf of a
park board except as authorized by a resolution of the board duly
recorded in the minutes of a meeting of that board.
No excessive contract without permission
15
No park board shall enter into any agreement or make any contract
through which the board assumes liability in excess of the current
liquid assets of the board without first receiving the written
approval of the minister.
No debit expenditure without permission
16
No park board shall make any expenditure or incur any indebtedness
which reduces its current liquid assets to an amount less than its
total liabilities without first receiving the written approval of the
minister.
Payment of accounts
17
Every account payable by a park board shall be paid by that board as
the same becomes due.
Installation of facilities
18
Subject to the provisions of the statutes and of these regulations any
park board may provide or install, or cause to be provided or
installed, within the park under the jurisdiction of that board such
public facilities or improvements as may be necessary to the public
use of that park.
Inspections by park boards
19
Any park board or any duly authorized agent of any park board may, at
all reasonable times, enter into and inspect any building, structure
or work of any kind within any park under the jurisdiction of that
board, and may require or order the proper maintenance or repair of
that building, structure or work.
Part 2 — Park Use Permits
Park use permit
20
Subject to the provisions of the statutes and of these regulations,
and when authorized to act as an agent for the minister for the
issuance of park use permits, any park board may grant or issue a park
use permit which may be necessary or expedient to enable the use or
establishment of facilities within the park under the jurisdiction of
that board.
Park use permit fees
21
Park use permit fees payable by the permittee to the park board in
respect of a park use permit issued by a park board and authorizing
any park use or occupancy enumerated in Schedule A of these
regulations shall be in accordance with the rates set forth in said
Schedule A.
Sale of permitted improvement
22
No building or improvement constructed or installed under a park use
permit shall be removed, sold or sublet by the permittee without
written consent of the minister or of the agent who issued the permit,
and then the building or improvement shall not be sold or sublet,
except to the holder of a park use permit authorizing that holder to
occupy or utilize that building or improvement.
Part 3 — Public Use of Parks
Powers of the park board
23
Subject to the provisions of the statutes and of these regulations,
any park board may determine the uses, activities and practices to be
accommodated within the park under the management of that board and
may define the areas within that park in which any specified activity
shall be permitted or prohibited.
Board may make rules
24
Subject to the provisions of the statutes and of these regulations,
any park board may make and promulgate such rules of conduct within
the park as may be necessary for the protection of the park under the
management of that board and for the control, protection and
convenience of the public within that park.
Repealed
25
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 4.]
No parking
26
No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle on any park road or
park land, except in an area designated for that purpose.
No obstruction by vehicle
27
No person shall cause or permit a vehicle to obstruct traffic in any
park.
No advertising
28
No commercial vehicle, or any vehicle on which is displayed
advertising of any kind, or any vehicle equipped with a public address
system shall be driven within any park for the purpose of advertising
or demonstrating, except as may be authorized by a park use permit.
No sleeping except in approved areas
29
No trailer shall be parked or used as living or sleeping quarters
within any park, except on a site or area approved for that purpose by
the park board having jurisdiction over that park.
Preservation of property
30
Subject to the provisions of the
Park Act
respecting the disposal of timber and the protection of natural
resources, no person, unless authorized by park use permit so to do,
shall remove, destroy or damage any curiosity, object, structure, work
or any property whatsoever in any park.
Construction restricted
31
No person shall construct, erect or install any building or structure
in any park, except in accordance with plans and specifications which
have been approved by the park board having jurisdiction over that
park.
Sanitation — waters protected
32
No person within any park shall throw, lay, drop, discharge or deposit
into or leave in the waters of that park, or in any storm sewer, drain
or ditch flowing into said waters, any substance, matter or thing,
either liquid or solid, which shall or may result in pollution of said
waters.
Dumping prohibited
33
No person shall deposit in any park any garbage, refuse, sewage, empty
or broken bottle, tin can, waste or other debris or obnoxious
material, except in a receptacle or pit provided for that purpose.
Sewage disposal
34
No person in a park shall use any toilet, washbasin, sink or similar
appliance in any trailer which is not equipped with a removable metal
container for the retention of garbage, waste and liquid refuse and no
person shall deposit the contents of said containers within any park,
except in places designated for that purpose by the park board having
jurisdiction over that park.
No admission charge without permit
35
No person shall, without a park use permit so to do, impose any charge
to be paid by any member of the public for admission to any area or
building in any park for any service or accommodation in any park.
Advertising
36
No person shall, without a park use permit so to do, place or display
within any park any word, character or device designed to advertise
any person, business, profession, group, association, article, thing,
exhibition, matter or event.
Fires
37
In any park in which fireplaces are provided, no person shall kindle,
build, light, maintain or use a fire except in a place provided or
designated for that purpose.
Hunting
38
No person in a park shall hunt or carry any loaded firearm other than
(a)
a member of the armed forces, or
(b)
a police officer, conservation officer or park officer
while engaged in the performance of the member's or officer's duty.
[en. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 5.]
Explosives
39
No person, other than an employee of a bona fide construction or
mining company or of a recognized government agency, while engaged in
the performance of duties, shall have in the person's possession
within any park any explosive or explosive substance without a park
use permit so to do.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 6.]
Animals
40
No person shall cause or permit any animal owned by that person, or in
the person's custody or under the person's control, to roam at large
in any park, except as authorized by a park use permit.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 7.]
Minors
41
No parent, guardian or custodian of any minor shall permit or allow
that minor to do, in any park, any act prohibited by any park
regulation or rule applicable to that park.
Information
42
Every person entering or seeking to enter or being in any park shall
give to any duly authorized representative of the park board having
jurisdiction over that park such information regarding the person's
name, address, destination, proposed activities within that park and
regarding any other matter pertaining to park use or occupancy as that
representative may request.
Observance of rules and regulations
43
Every person within the boundaries of any park shall observe and obey
every rule and regulation applicable to that park made pursuant to the
provisions of the
Park Act
or of these regulations.
Violations
44
Every person who violates any provision of these regulations shall, on
summary conviction, be guilty of an offence against the
Park Act
.
Inspections
45
The deputy minister to the minister or any duly authorized park
officer acting under the instructions of that deputy minister may
enter into any park and at all reasonable times may enter into any
building, structure or improvement within any park, for the purpose of
examining or inspecting such parks or improvements.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 8.]
Reports and statements
46
The deputy minister to the minister may require any park board to
submit to the minister such reports or statements, including financial
statements, pertaining to the business and functions of that board or
the administration, development, maintenance and use of any park under
the jurisdiction of that board as may, in the opinion of the deputy
minister to the minister, be necessary in the public interest.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2022, s. 9.]
Schedule A
Annual Park Use Permit Fees
USE
RATE
MINIMUM
ANNUAL FEE
1 Personal or Community:
(a) Cabin sites (private — seasonal and weekend)
$15 per acre
$30
(b) Cabin and lodge sites (groups, clubs and organizations)
$24 per acre
$48
(c) Campsites (private — no buildings)
$10 per acre
$15
(d) Campsites (groups and organizations — no buildings)
$2 per acre
$5
(e) Overnight camping, per site
$1 per day
$1
(f) Rights of way (incidental to above uses)
$5 per mile
$5
2 Economic — Commercial:
(a) Stores, shops and refreshment stands
$20 per acre
$60
(b) Tourist resorts, lodges and camps
$20 per acre
$60
(c) Winter sports areas, golf courses and similar recreation
areas
(i) developed areas containing building and accommodations
$20 per acre
$60
(ii) areas containing tows, lifts, T-bars and similar
improvements
$10 per acre
$10
(iii) ski runs, ski jumps, fairways and similar improvements
$2 per acre
$10
(d) Rights of way (incidental to above commercial uses)
$25 per mile
$25
3 Economic — Industrial:
(a) Rights of way (roads, flumes, ditches and other surface
and
overhead installations)
$25 per mile
$25
(b) Rights of way (pipelines and other underground
installations)
$5 per mile
$5
(c) Existing roads (use of for industrial purposes)
$5 per mile
$5
NOTE:
Agencies of the government of British Columbia, including the British
Columbia Hydro and Power Authority, the Pacific Great Eastern Railway
and other Crown corporations of the Province and ministries of
Provincial government, and ministries of the government of Canada, shall
not be charged for park use permits.
Crown corporations of the government of Canada shall be charged park use
permit fees at the standard rates set forth above.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Park Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 344, s. 29.]
