B.C. Reg. 363/95
M 448/95
Deposited August 23, 1995
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Evidence Act
Designation Regulation
[Last amended February 9, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 21/2022]
Industry Reference Group — Hepatitis C/HIV
1
For the purpose of paragraph (d) of the definition of "committee" in
section 51 (1) of the
Evidence Act
, the Industry Reference Group on Notification or Lookback related to
Hepatitis C/HIV, consisting of the group of persons set out in the
attached Schedule 1, is designated as a committee.
Provincial Perinatal and Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Review
Committee
2
For the purpose of paragraph (d) of the definition of "committee" in
section 51 (1) of the
Evidence Act
, the Provincial Perinatal and Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Review
Committee, consisting of the group of persons set out in the attached
Schedule 2, is designated as a committee.
[en. B.C. Reg. 20/98; am. B.C. Regs. 240/2006, s. (a); 50/2012, s.
(a); 33/2017, s. 1.]
Critical Incident Report Subcommittee
3
For the purpose of paragraph (c) of the definition of "committee" in
section 51 (1) of the
Evidence Act
, the Critical Incident Report Subcommittee of the Quality Assurance
Committee of the B.C. Anaesthetists' Society, consisting of the Chair
of the Quality Assurance Committee and the Vice President of the B.C.
Anaesthetists' Society, appointed in accordance with the constitution
of the B.C. Anaesthetists' Society, is designated as a committee.
[en. B.C. Reg. 160/2000; am. B.C. Reg. 21/2022, s. (b).]
Schedule 1
[am. B.C. Regs. 4/2010, s. 3; 182/2018.]
1. The Reference Group will have a core membership of the Vice
Presidents of Medicine or their designates as follows:
Hospital/Organization
Name/Title
Alternate
British Columbia's Women's Hospital
Penny Ballam, Vice President, Women's Health Programs
Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences Centre
Charles Wright, Vice President, Medical Affairs
Jeff Coleman, Vice President, Clinical Operations
St. Paul's Hospital
Tom Ward, Vice President, Medicine
Kelowna General Hospital
Phil White, Chief of Staff
Greater Victoria Hospital Society
David Newsome, Vice President, Medicine
Royal Columbian Hospital
Ron McPherson, Vice President, Medicine
Anthony Nolan, Respirologist
British Columbia's Children's Hospital
Louis Wadsworth
Doug Cochrane, Head, Dept. of Surgery
2. The Core Membership will be augmented by representation from:
University of British Columbia
Rick Mathias, Professor, Health Care & Epidemiology
Centre for Disease Control
Alison Bell, Director, Epidemiology Services
Ministry of Health
Judy Vestrup, Medical Consultant, Acute Care Division
Neil Fatin, Medical Consultant, Provincial Programs
Schedule 2
[en. B.C. Reg. 163/2018; am. B.C. Regs. 138/2018; 202/2020.]
Provincial Perinatal and Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Review
Committee
British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (Midwifery)
Amy Braunstein
British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (Neonatal)
Sarah Rourke
British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (Obstetrics)
Melanie Basso
College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia
Dr. J. Galt Wilson
Coroners Service of British Columbia
Carla Springinotic
Divisions of Family Practice
Dr. Ashnoor Nagji
First Nations Health Authority, Women's Health
Dr. Unjali Malhotra
Fraser Health Authority, Perinatologist
Dr. Kirsten Grabowska
Interior Health Authority, Medical Health Officer, Public Health
and Prevention Medicine
Dr. Sue Pollock
Interior Health Authority, Neonatologist
Dr. Jill Boulton
Interior Health Authority, Obstetrician/Gynecologist
Dr. Shiraz Moola
Island Health Authority, Nanaimo, Obstetrician/Gynecologist
Dr. Jeffrey Somerville
Ministry of Health, Women's and Maternal Health, Population and
Public Health
Dr. Michelle Barros Pinheiro
Northern Health Authority, Family Practice Physician, Maternity
Care
Dr. Bill Kingston
Obstetrician/Gynecologist, Provincial Perinatal and Maternal
Mortality and Morbidity Review Committee Member-at-Large
Dr. Jan Christilaw
Pediatric Representative
Dr. Deepak Manhas
Perinatal Services BC Medical Lead, Maternal Fetal Health,
Provincial Perinatal and Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Review
Committee Chair
Dr. Sayrin Lalji
Perinatal Services BC Provincial Director, Surveillance and
Research
Amy Hobbs
Perinatal Services BC Provincial Executive Director
Dr. Tamil Kendall
Provincial Health Services Authority, Internist, Obstetrical
Medicine
Dr. Jayson Potts
Provincial Health Services Authority, Obstetrician/Gynecologist
Dr. Petra Selke
Provincial Health Services Authority, Pathologist with Expertise
in Perinatal Pathology
Dr. Anna Lee
Vancouver Coastal Health Authority, Obstetrician/Gynecologist
Dr. Carolyn Donnelly
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Evidence Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 124, s. 51 (1).]
