B.C. Reg. 89/2009
O.C. 190/2009
Deposited March 6, 2009
effective April 27, 2009
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Cooperative Association Act
Extraprovincial Associations and
Corporations from a Designated
Province Regulation
[Last amended January 1, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 268/2019]
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Cooperative Association Act
;
"extraprovincial association"
means an extraprovincial corporation that is registered as an
extraprovincial association under this regulation;
"extraprovincial corporation"
means an extraprovincial corporation from a designated province.
Designated provinces
2
For the purposes of Part 11.1 of the Act and this regulation, the
following are designated provinces:
(a)
Alberta;
(b)
Saskatchewan;
(c)
Manitoba.
[en. B.C. Reg. 111/2013, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 268/2019, s. (b).]
Exemption and disapplication
3
(1)
An extraprovincial corporation is exempt from section 181.1
[application for registration]
of the Act.
(2)
Section 181.11
[registration]
of the Act does not apply in respect of an extraprovincial
corporation.
(3)
An extraprovincial association is exempt from sections 126 (2)
[annual report]
, 181.61
[records to be kept in British Columbia]
and 181.7
[maintenance of and access to records]
of the Act.
(4)
The following sections of the Act do not apply in respect of an
extraprovincial association:
(a)
181.11
[registration]
;
(b)
181.4 (2), (4) (b) and (5)
[attorney to be appointed for certain purposes]
;
(c)
181.41
[notices of change to be filed]
;
(d)
194.4 (5)
[dissolutions and cancellations of registrations by registrar]
;
(e)
199 (a)
[offences]
, insofar as it refers to section 126 (2) of the Act.
(5)
Section 181.4 (3) does not apply to an extraprovincial corporation or
extraprovincial association insofar as it requires a duplicate filing.
(6)
Section 5 (2) and items 6, 7, 10 and 12 of Schedule A of the
Cooperative Association Regulation, B.C. Reg. 391/2000, do not apply
in respect of an extraprovincial association.
Manner in which registrar may accept records, etc.
4
The registrar may accept records, filings, applications, information,
forms, notices and fees respecting an extraprovincial association or
extraprovincial corporation from an extraprovincial registrar in one
or more of the following manners, as applicable:
(a)
electronically;
(b)
by facsimile transmission;
(c)
by mail.
Registration of extraprovincial corporation as extraprovincial
association
5
If an extraprovincial corporation provides to the registrar, to the
satisfaction of the registrar,
(a)
a statement completed by the extraprovincial corporation in a form
established by the registrar, accompanied by a copy of the charter of
the extraprovincial corporation verified in a manner satisfactory to
the registrar, and
(b)
other information the registrar requires,
the registrar must, subject to section 181.21 of the Act,
(c)
register the extraprovincial corporation as an extraprovincial
association,
(d)
issue a certificate showing that the extraprovincial corporation is
registered as an extraprovincial association under the Act, and
(e)
publish notice of the registration in the Gazette or on a website
maintained by or on behalf of the government.
Personal information — residential addresses
6
The registrar may
(a)
collect the residential address of a director or an attorney of an
extraprovincial corporation, extraprovincial association or
amalgamated extraprovincial association from a person other than the
director or attorney for the purposes of registration of, and
maintenance of registration of, the extraprovincial corporation,
extraprovincial association or amalgamated extraprovincial
association, as the case may be,
(b)
disclose the residential address of a director or an attorney of an
extraprovincial association or amalgamated extraprovincial association
to the public for the purposes of the Act and this regulation, and
(c)
collect the residential address of a director or an attorney of an
association and disclose the residential address to an extraprovincial
registrar for the purposes of registration of, and maintenance of
registration of, the association in a designated province.
Extraprovincial association not intending to carry on business
7
If an extraprovincial association files with the registrar a notice
that the association does not carry on business in British Columbia
and does not intend to carry on business in British Columbia, the
registrar may cancel its registration.
Attorney
8
(1)
The first attorney referred to in section 181.4 (1) of the Act must be
appointed by an extraprovincial association in the statement provided
by it under section 5 of this regulation.
(2)
If an extraprovincial association appoints more than one attorney, the
name and address of every attorney must be shown on the statement
required by section 5 of this regulation, or in the notice required by
section 181.4 (3) (a) of the Act.
(3)
An attorney must, in the presence of a witness, sign the statement
referred to in section 5 as evidence of consent to act as attorney.
Notice of changes to be filed
9
An extraprovincial association must promptly give notice to the
registrar of any change
(a)
in the address of its head office in or out of British Columbia,
(b)
in the address of any attorney of the association in British Columbia,
and
(c)
of its directors.
[am. B.C. Reg. 111/2013, s. 2.]
Amalgamation of extraprovincial association
10
In addition to fulfilling the requirements of section 181.5 (1) of the
Act, an amalgamated extraprovincial association must file with the
registrar
(a)
a statement completed by the amalgamated extraprovincial association
in a form established by the registrar, accompanied by a copy,
verified in a manner satisfactory to the registrar, of the charter of
the amalgamated extraprovincial association, and
(b)
other information the registrar requires.
Mailing address for section 194.4 of Act
11
A letter mailed under section 194.4 of the Act to an extraprovincial
association may be addressed to the attorney of the association or to
its head office in British Columbia.
[am. B.C. Reg. 111/2013, s. 3.]
How registrar may transmit records, etc.
12
(1)
In this section and in section 13,
"association"
has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Act.
(2)
In subsection (4),
"service provider"
means the service provider designated by the registrar to perform a
name search required by the extraprovincial registrar referred to in
that subsection.
(3)
The registrar may collect records, filings, applications, information,
forms, notices and fees from an association for an extraprovincial
registrar and transmit them to the extraprovincial registrar in one or
more of the following manners, as applicable:
(a)
electronically;
(b)
by facsimile transmission;
(c)
by mail.
(4)
Without limiting subsection (3), the registrar may collect a name
search fee for a name search required by the extraprovincial registrar
for Alberta and transmit the fee to the service provider.
[am. B.C. Reg. 111/2013, s. 4.]
Registrar must obtain consent
13
Before transmitting the matters referred to in section 12 to an
extraprovincial registrar, the registrar must obtain the consent of
the association.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Cooperative Association Act
, S.B.C. 1999, c. 28, ss. 178.4 and 211.]
