B.C. Reg. 274/2002
O.C. 902/2002
Deposited October 11, 2002
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to Point in Time
Legislative Assembly Management Committee Act
Legislative Precinct Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 223/2015, January 18, 2016]
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"grounds"
means the legislative grounds and Confederation Garden Park;
"vehicle"
has the same meaning as in the
Motor Vehicle Act
.
Limited entry, vehicular traffic and parking
2
(1)
Without prior authorization of the Speaker, a person must not enter or
remain in or on any part of the grounds where a notice, sign or
information device, posted or erected by or under the authority of the
Speaker, indicates that entry is prohibited or is restricted to
authorized persons.
(2)
Without prior authorization of the Speaker, a person must not drive,
operate or park a vehicle in or on the grounds where a notice, sign or
information device, posted or erected by or under the authority of the
Speaker, indicates that vehicle entry or parking is prohibited or is
restricted to authorized persons or vehicles.
(3)
A notice, sign or information device posted or erected in or on the
Legislative Precinct is presumed to have been erected by or under the
authority of the Speaker, unless the contrary is established.
Prohibition on specified activities
3
A person must not skateboard, rollerblade or rollerskate in or on the
grounds.
Prohibition on occupancy
4
A person must not reside, camp or sleep in or on the grounds.
Prohibition on construction
5
(1)
Without prior authorization of the Speaker, a person must not
(a)
erect, construct, attach or post, in or on the grounds, any thing,
structure, material or object, or
(b)
cause any of these things to be done.
(2)
A person must not occupy, maintain or use any thing, structure,
material or object that is erected, constructed, attached or posted in
contravention of subsection (1).
Removal of signs
6
A person must not erect, remove, alter or deface any notice, sign or
information device in or on the Legislative Precinct, except under the
authority of the Speaker.
Animal control
7
(1)
A person must not be in possession of an animal in or on the grounds
without prior authorization of the Speaker unless the animal is
(a)
restrained by a leash not longer than 2 metres, or
(b)
confined in a container, enclosure or vehicle.
(2)
A person in possession of an animal in accordance with subsection (1)
must ensure that no excrement from that animal is left in or on the
grounds.
(3)
Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a guide dog or a service
dog, as defined in the
Guide Dog and Service Dog Act
, or to an animal employed by a peace officer in the course of that
peace officer's duties.
[am. B.C. Reg. 223/2015, App. 3, s. 5.]
Notice to violator
8
(1)
If a person found contravening section 3, 4, 5 (1) (a) or (b)
or (2), 6 or 7 (1) receives notice to cease the contravening
activity and to leave the Legislative Precinct, the person
(a)
must immediately leave the Legislative Precinct together with all
personal belongings, and
(b)
must cease the activity to which the notice applies.
(2)
Notice under subsection (1) may be oral or written notice from the
Speaker or a person acting under the authority of the Speaker or from
a peace officer.
Powers of peace officers
9
A peace officer may remove from the Legislative Precinct
(a)
a person who fails to obey a notice under section 8, and
(b)
any personal property apparently in the possession of that person.
Offences
10
(1)
A person who contravenes section 2 (1) or (2), 3, 5 (1) (a) or (b) or
(2), 6 or 7 (1) or (2) is guilty of an offence and is liable to a fine
not exceeding $1 000.
(2)
A person who contravenes 8 (1) (a) or (b) is guilty of an offence and
is liable to a fine not exceeding $2 000.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Legislative Assembly Management Committee Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 258, section 8]
