B.C. Reg. 34/83
O.C. 167/83
Filed January 31, 1983
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Plant Protection Act
Little Cherry Control Regulation
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Plant Protection Act
;
"approved source"
means a place that through testing and isolation of planting material
produces only planting material that is free of the virus causing the
little cherry disease;
"director"
means an inspector who has been appointed as director of the Crop
Protection Branch in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food;
"grower"
means a person who occupies land on which a cherry tree is grown;
"inspector"
means an inspector appointed under the authority of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Act
;
"little cherry control area"
means
(a)
the part of British Columbia that is bounded on the north by the 51st
parallel, on the east by the 119th meridian, on the west by the 121st
meridian and on the south by the International Boundary with the
United States of America, and
(b)
the area within the Electoral Areas A, B and C of the Central Kootenay
District;
"minister"
means the minister appointed for the administration of the Act;
"ornamental flowering cherry trees"
means the following species of cherry trees:
(a)
Prunus serrulata;
(b)
Prunus subhirtella;
(c)
Prunus sieboldii;
(d)
Prunus yedoensis;
(e)
Prunus incisa;
"plant pathologist"
means an inspector who is a plant pathologist employed in the
minister's ministry or the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.
[am. B.C. Regs. 152/94, ss. 1, 2; 4/2010, s. 3.]
Application
2
Sections 3, 4 and 5 apply only to the portion of the Province
within the little cherry control area.
Destruction of plants with little cherry disease
3
(1)
Where, on inspection, an inspector discovers or suspects the presence
of little cherry disease in a plant, the inspector shall notify a
plant pathologist.
(2)
Where, after examination of a plant, a plant pathologist determines or
suspects that the plant has little cherry disease, the plant
pathologist may request the grower to destroy the plant.
(3)
Where the grower fails to comply with a request under subsection (2),
the minister may order that the plant be confiscated and destroyed by
an inspector within a specified period.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]
Restrictions on cultivation of ornamental cherries
4
(1)
Subject to section 5, no person shall
(a)
plant or grow an ornamental flowering cherry tree, or
(b)
graft the grafting wood from or bud the buds of an ornamental
flowering cherry tree
in the cherry control area.
(2)
Where a person grows an ornamental flowering cherry in the control
area, other than in accordance with section 5, the person shall
immediately move the ornamental flowering cherry from the control
area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]
Cultivation of ornamental cherries can occur
5
(1)
A person may plant or grow an ornamental flowering cherry tree or the
understock for an ornamental flowering cherry tree or graft the
grafting wood from or bud the buds of an ornamental flowering cherry
tree in the control area for sale outside the control area after the
person has done all of the following:
(a)
notified the minister in writing before the person plants or grows the
ornamental flowering cherry trees;
(b)
obtained the ornamental flowering cherry stock from an approved
source;
(c)
entered into a written agreement with the minister to move all
ornamental flowering cherry stock that is older than 5 years from
budding from the little cherry control area;
(d)
where the person wishes to move understock, obtained written
permission from the director to move understock for the ornamental
flowering cherry trees into the control area.
(2)
The minister may refuse to enter into or may cancel a written
agreement referred to in subsection (1) (c) where a person has failed
to move the person's ornamental flowering cherry stock that is older
than 5 years from budding in contravention of that or a prior
agreement.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]
Transportation of cherry stock
6
(1)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 152/94, s. 3.]
(2)
No person shall move a cherry tree, understock of a cherry tree or the
buds of or the grafting wood for a cherry tree into the little cherry
control area unless the person has received written permission from
the director.
(2.1)
Where a cherry tree, understock of a cherry tree or buds of or
grafting wood for a cherry tree is imported into Canada with the
authorization of the Government of Canada, and is forthwith moved into
the little cherry control area, the permission of the director under
subsection (2) is not required.
(3)
It shall be the duty of the director to determine if the movement of a
cherry tree, understock for a cherry tree or the buds of or the
grafting wood from a cherry tree into the control area will be likely
to cause an outbreak of little cherry disease.
(4)
Where the director determines that the movement of a cherry tree,
understock for a cherry tree or the buds of or grafting wood from a
cherry tree would not transmit or cause an outbreak of little cherry
disease in the control area, the director may grant permission for the
movement into the control area.
[am. B.C. Regs. 147/89; 152/94, s. 3; 76/2022, s. 6.]
Offence
7
A person who contravenes section 4, 5 or 6 commits an offence and
is liable to a fine not exceeding $2 000.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: the
Plant Protection Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 365, s. 8.]
