B.C. Reg. 513/2004
M398/2004
Deposited November 24, 2004
effective December 31, 2004
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Transportation Act
Provincial Public Undertakings Regulation
[Last amended February 28, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 51/2022]
Part 1 — Interpretation
Definitions
1
In this regulation:
"Act"
means the
Transportation Act
;
"authorized traffic officer"
means the minister, an enforcement officer or a flagger;
"bus lane"
means a section of highway that is reserved for the exclusive use of
buses by the placement of traffic control devices;
"enforcement officer"
means any person who, under section 132 of the
Offence Act
, is
(a)
designated as an enforcement officer in respect of the Act, or
(b)
a member of a class of persons designated as enforcement officers in
respect of the Act;
"ministry"
means the minister's ministry;
"slow moving vehicle"
means a vehicle that is incapable of maintaining a minimum speed of 60
km/h on level highway;
"structure"
means any of the following:
(a)
the Nelson Bridge, being the structure that spans the West Arm of
Kootenay Lake at Nelson;
(b)
the William R. Bennett Bridge, being the structure that spans the
Okanagan Lake at Kelowna;
(c)
the Agassiz-Rosedale Bridge, being the structure that spans the Fraser
River between Agassiz and Rosedale;
(d)
the Pattullo Bridge, being the structure that spans the Fraser River
and connects the City of New Westminster with the Municipality of
Surrey;
(e)
the First Narrows Bridge, being the structure that spans Burrard Inlet
at its first narrows and connects the City of Vancouver with the
Municipality of West Vancouver and the District of North Vancouver;
(f)
the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows Bridge, being the structure
that spans Burrard Inlet at its second narrows and connects the City
of Vancouver with the District of North Vancouver;
(g)
the Oak Street Bridge, being the structure that spans the North Arm of
the Fraser River and connects the City of Vancouver with the
Municipality of Richmond;
(h)
the Knight Street Bridge, being the structure that spans the North Arm
of the Fraser River in the vicinity of Mitchell Island and connects
the City of Vancouver with the Municipality of Richmond;
(i)
the Port Mann Bridge, being the structure that spans the Fraser River
and connects the Municipality of Coquitlam with the Municipality of
Surrey;
(j)
both tubes of the George Massey Tunnel, being the structure that
passes under the South Arm of the Fraser River and connects the
Municipality of Richmond with the Municipality of Delta;
(k)
the Annacis Bridge, being the structure that spans the main channel of
the Fraser River in the vicinity of Annacis Island in the Municipality
of Delta;
(l)
the East Channel Bridge, being the structure that spans the Annacis
Channel of the Fraser River and connects the municipality of Delta
with the City of New Westminster and the Municipality of Richmond;
(m)
the Queensborough Bridge, being the structure that spans the North Arm
of the Fraser River in the City of New Westminster;
(n)
both tubes of the Cassiar Connector Tunnel, being the structure that
passes underground from Adanac Street to Triumph Street and connects
the Trans Canada Highway from First Avenue to the Ironworkers Memorial
Second Narrows Bridge in the City of Vancouver.
[am. B.C. Regs. 81/2008; 4/2010, s. 3.]
Part 2 — Traffic Regulations
Restrictions on structures
2
(1)
The following apply to and in respect of all structures:
(a)
the driver of a vehicle on or within a structure must obey the
instructions of an applicable traffic control device, except when
otherwise directed by an authorized traffic officer;
(b)
the driver of a vehicle on or within a structure must, on request by
an authorized traffic officer, produce any licence or permit issued
under the
Motor Vehicle Act
or the
Commercial Transport Act
, and allow the licence or permit to be taken in hand by the
authorized traffic officer for the purpose of inspection;
(c)
the driver of a vehicle, while driving or operating the vehicle on or
within a structure, must not make a 'U' turn, or otherwise reverse the
direction in which the vehicle is proceeding, unless otherwise
directed by an authorized traffic officer;
(d)
a person must not stop, stand or park a vehicle on or within a
structure except when it is necessary to do so to comply with
(i)
a traffic control device, or
(ii)
the direction of an authorized traffic officer;
(e)
without limiting any other right or power a person has under the Act
to remove vehicles from a highway, if a vehicle breaks down or
otherwise becomes disabled on or within a structure, any authorized
traffic officer may arrange for
(i)
the necessary towing of the vehicle,
(ii)
the supply of gasoline to the vehicle, or
(iii)
such other assistance as may be necessary,
and all charges in connection with that arrangement must be paid for
by the driver or operator when the vehicle is removed from the
structure;
(f)
without limiting any other right or power a person has under the Act
to remove vehicles from a highway, if a vehicle is unlawfully stopped,
parked or left standing on or within a structure, any authorized
traffic officer may remove that vehicle or cause that vehicle to be
removed, whether attended or unattended, from the place where it is
found, and all charges and costs in connection with that removal and
any storage of the vehicle must be paid by the owner or operator of
the vehicle before it is returned to the owner or operator;
(g)
if a vehicle, with its load, is overload or oversize, as those terms
are defined in the
Commercial Transport Act
,
(i)
the operator of the vehicle must not cause or allow the vehicle to be
on or within a structure unless the operator is authorized to do so
under the Act and the vehicle is on or within the structure at a time
and on a day specified in the authorization, and
(ii)
even if the operator holds an authorization for the vehicle to be on
or within a structure and even if the vehicle is or is to be on or
within the structure at a time and on a day specified in the
authorization, the operator of the vehicle must not cause or allow the
vehicle to be on or within the structure if the vehicle is directed to
an alternate route by an authorized traffic officer;
(h)
subject to subsection (2), when approaching a structure, the driver of
a slow moving vehicle must, if directed to do so by an authorized
traffic officer, park the vehicle at a location indicated by the
authorized traffic officer and must not proceed out of that parking
location until authorized to do so by an authorized traffic officer;
(i)
a person must not do any of the following on or within a structure
unless the person does so in accordance with an authorization issued
to the person under the Act:
(i)
lead, ride or drive any animal;
(ii)
operate a vehicle drawn by any animal;
(iii)
push, pull or operate any cart, wheelbarrow or similar device;
(iv)
operate any vehicle or transport any load that, in the opinion of an
authorized traffic officer, does or might pose a danger to the
structure or to any person on, within or near it.
(2)
Subsection (1) (h) does not apply to construction or maintenance
equipment that is
(a)
owned or hired by the minister, and
(b)
working on, or travelling to or from, a worksite.
[am. B.C. Reg. 51/2022, s. (a).]
Farm vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians
3
The following apply to and in respect of the Port Mann Bridge, the
George Massey Tunnel and the Cassiar Connector Tunnel only:
(a)
unless authorized by the minister under the Act, a person must not
operate the following vehicles on or within a structure:
(i)
a farm implement or farm machine, whether self-propelled or towed;
(ii)
any vehicle incapable of maintaining a speed of 60 km/h on level
highway;
(b)
a person must not operate a bicycle on or within any part of a
structure;
(c)
a person must not be on or within any part of a structure as a
pedestrian.
Slow vehicles and bicycles
4
The following apply to and in respect of the Ironworkers Memorial
Second Narrows Bridge, the Oak Street Bridge, the Knight Street
Bridge, the William R. Bennett Bridge, the Annacis Bridge, the East
Channel Bridge, the Queensborough Bridge and the Pattullo Bridge only:
(a)
a person must not, between the hours of 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.
and 6 p.m., Monday to Friday inclusive, operate a vehicle that is
incapable of maintaining the normal speed of traffic on the structure
or its approaches, unless the vehicle is engaged in emergency
maintenance work;
(b)
a person must not operate a bicycle on or within the roadway of the
structure or its approaches.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2008.]
Explosives
5
A person driving a vehicle that is transporting explosives of a
quantity that, under the Transportation of Dangerous Goods
Regulations, SOR/DORS/200-286, requires the person to hold an
Explosives Vehicle Certificate, must not enter on or within, or
attempt to cross over, any of the First Narrows Bridge, the
Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows Bridge, the Oak Street Bridge, the
Knight Street Bridge, the Queensborough Bridge, the Port Mann Bridge
or the Pattullo Bridge without first having obtained a police or
ministry escort.
Explosives, flammables and corrosives
6
(1)
In this section,
"contaminated vehicle"
means a vehicle that
(a)
is transporting any of the following:
(i)
gasoline, distillate or kerosene in tanks, drums, barrels or cans;
(ii)
oxygen, acetylene or butane;
(iii)
fuel oil, road oil, hot roadmix, lubricating oil or grease or solid or
liquid asphaltum;
(iv)
explosives or corrosive liquids, or
(b)
is transporting empty tanks if those tanks
(i)
had contained gasoline, distillate or kerosene, and
(ii)
have not been thoroughly cleaned with steam or filled with water.
(2)
A person must not operate a contaminated vehicle on or within any of
the Agassiz-Rosedale Bridge, the William R. Bennett Bridge, the Nelson
Bridge, the Pattullo Bridge, the First Narrows Bridge, the Ironworkers
Memorial Second Narrows Bridge, the Oak Street Bridge, the Knight
Street Bridge, the Queensborough Bridge or the Port Mann Bridge other
than during the time or times specified for that operation on signs
posted by the minister on the approaches to the structure.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2008.]
Pedestrians
7
The following apply to and in respect of the Agassiz-Rosedale Bridge,
the William R. Bennett Bridge, the Nelson Bridge, the Pattullo Bridge,
the First Narrows Bridge, the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows
Bridge, the Knight Street Bridge, the Annacis Bridge, the East Channel
Bridge, the Queensborough Bridge and the Oak Street Bridge only:
(a)
a pedestrian must not use the roadway of the structure or its
approaches, but must proceed on the sidewalk if one is provided for
that purpose;
(b)
a pedestrian must not loiter on or within the structure;
(c)
a pedestrian must not climb on or enter on or within any part of the
structure not intended for use by pedestrians.
[am. B.C. Reg. 81/2008.]
Tire repair
8
A person must not stop, stand or park a vehicle on or within any of
the First Narrows Bridge, the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows
Bridge, the Oak Street Bridge, the Knight Street Bridge, the
Queensborough Bridge, the Port Mann Bridge, the Pattullo Bridge, the
George Massey Tunnel or the Cassiar Connector Tunnel for any purpose,
including, without limitation, for the purpose of replacing a flat
tire.
Prohibited vehicles, bicycles and tire chains
9
The following apply to and in respect of the First Narrows Bridge
only:
(a)
a person must not operate, on any part of the structure or its
approaches, a vehicle having a gross weight in excess of 13 000
kg unless the vehicle is a bus as defined in the
Motor Vehicle Act
;
(b)
a person must not operate a bicycle on the roadway of the structure or
its approaches;
(c)
a person must not operate, on any part of the structure or its
approaches, a vehicle equipped with a tire chain or chains.
Emergency vehicles
10
Despite any traffic control devices in place, marked emergency
vehicles, as defined in the
Motor Vehicle Act
, may enter, use and leave a bus lane without the necessity of
sounding sirens or displaying flashing lights.
Part 3 — Building Restrictions
Sight triangle
11
In this Part,
"sight triangle"
means the area formed by a triangle in the angle formed by the right
of way boundaries or boundaries produced and 2 points on those
boundaries 6 m from the point of intersection, as shown crosshatched
in the diagram following:
Restriction on placement of buildings or other structures
12
An owner, occupier or lessee of land must not, without the consent of
the minister, place or cause or allow to be placed any building,
trailer, mobile home or other structure within the following distance
from the property line fronting on any arterial highway within a
municipality or on any highway in unorganized territory:
(a)
if a public lane or alley provides secondary access to the property, 3
m;
(b)
in any other case, 4.5 m.
Restriction on placement of signs, structures and plants
13
An owner, occupier or lessee of land at the intersection of
(a)
an arterial highway in a municipality or any highway in unorganized
territory, and
(b)
any other highway,
must not grow or place, or cause or allow to be grown or placed,
within the sight triangle on that land, any signs or structures or
trees or other plants, with horizontal dimension exceeding 0.6 m,
unless
(c)
the person has the consent of the minister to do so, or
(d)
an eye 0.9 m above the surface elevation of one highway can, by
looking directly over the sign or structure or tree or other plant,
see an object 0.9 m above the surface elevation of the other highway.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Transportation Act
, S.B.C. 2004, c. 44, s. 90.]
