B.C. Reg. 219/84
O.C. 1197/84
Deposited June 29, 1984
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Seed Potato Act
Seed Potato Regulation
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Interpretation
1
(1)
In this regulation:
"Cariboo Certified Seed Potato Control Area"
means the seed potato control area constituted under B.C. Reg. 237/59
and continued under this regulation;
"member"
means a member of a committee;
"Pemberton Certified Seed Potato Control Area"
means the seed potato control area constituted under B.C. Reg. 239/59
and continued under this regulation;
"vacancy"
, with reference to the membership of a committee, includes a vacancy
about to occur by the expiration of the term of a member.
(2)
This regulation applies to the Cariboo Certified Seed Potato Control
Area and to the Pemberton Certified Seed Potato Control Area.
[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2014, App. s. 18 (a).]
Committee
2
(1)
A committee shall be composed of 4 members.
(2)
Three of the members shall be persons acclaimed or elected by the
owners of land in the seed potato control area and the fourth member
shall be a nominee of the minister.
Term of office
3
Except for a member appointed under section 5 of the Act or a member
appointed to succeed a member who has died or otherwise ceased to be a
member, a member shall hold office from the time of the member's
appointment until the third annual meeting next following.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 18 (b); 76/2022, s. 4.]
Annual meeting of owners
4
The committee of the seed potato control area shall, before May 1 of a
year, call a meeting of the owners in the area for the purpose of
filling any vacancies in the elected membership of the committee and
for the transaction of other necessary business.
Notice of meeting
5
Notice of the date, time and place of a general meeting shall be
posted at least 10 days before the meeting in 2 conspicuous places
within the seed potato control area.
Procedure at meeting
6
The owners present at a general meeting shall choose a chair for the
meeting, who shall decide all questions of order and shall call for
nominations of candidates for membership on the committee.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Nominations for members
7
No person shall be nominated as a candidate where the person refuses
to accept the nomination.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, s. 18 (c); 76/2022, s. 3.]
Acclamation
8
Where no more candidates are nominated than there are vacancies to
fill, the persons nominated shall be acclaimed as members of the
committee.
Voting
9
Where more candidates are nominated than are required to fill the
vacancies on the committee, the chair shall, with the consent of the
majority of owners present, declare when nominations are closed and
shall then proceed to take the votes by ballot of the owners.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Tied vote
10
In the event of a tied vote the chair shall call for another vote on
the candidates who are tied.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Delay or irregularity
11
In the event of a delay or irregularity occurring in the conduct of a
general meeting or of a doubt arising as to the validity of an
election of a member, the matter shall be referred to the minister for
decision.
Special general meeting
12
The minister or a committee may at any time order the holding of a
special general meeting for any purpose.
Entitlement to vote
13
Only the member of the committee nominated by the minister and an
owner of land in the seed potato control area shall be entitled to
take part in the proceedings at a general meeting.
Vote by agent
14
An owner may be represented by an agent who may vote for the owner.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 8.]
Committee meeting
15
The committee members may meet together for the dispatch of business,
adjourn and otherwise regulate their meetings as they think fit.
Quorum
16
Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.
Officers
17
(1)
The committee shall appoint from among its members a chair and may
appoint a secretary treasurer who need not be a member.
(2)
In case of an equality of votes, the chair shall have a casting vote.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
Calling committee meetings
18
A member of the committee may, and the secretary treasurer on the
requisition of a member shall, at any time summon a meeting of the
committee.
Orders valid
19
An order or determination signed by all members of the committee shall
be valid, whether signed at a meeting of the committee or otherwise.
Vacancy
20
(1)
In the event of any casual vacancy in the membership of the committee
the remaining members of the committee shall constitute the committee
until the vacancy is filled.
(2)
Where a member of the committee is absent from the Province for 6
months or fails to attend to the member's duties for a like period,
the other members of the committee may declare the member's office
vacant.
(3)
A member of the committee ceases to hold office where
(a)
the member is convicted of an offence under the Act or regulations,
(b)
by notice in writing to the committee the member resigns his or her
office, or
(c)
the member's office is declared vacant by the other members of the
committee.
(4)
Where a vacancy occurs in the membership of the committee by reason of
death or through a member ceasing to hold office, the remaining
members of the committee, if constituted a quorum, may, subject to the
approval of the minister, fill the vacancy, and the person appointed
to fill the vacancy shall hold office for the unexpired term of the
member whose office the appointed person fills.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 18 (b) and (c); 76/2022, ss. 3 and
4.]
Storage warehouses
21
All storage warehouses for seed potatoes grown within the seed potato
control area shall be subject to approval by the committee.
Planting and source of seed
22
(1)
No person shall plant potato seed within the seed potato control area
unless obtained from sources recommended by the committee.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply to the planting of seed of the
pre-Elite, Elite and Foundation classes of those varieties licensed
for sale in Canada that have been virus tested and approved by the
committee.
(3)
Subsection (1) does not apply to the planting of plots of seedlings
and varieties which have been pathogen tested and approved by the
committee.
Storage of seed
23
(1)
An owner shall store each variety of potato separately.
(2)
No owner shall grow more than 5 potato varieties on a farm unit within
the seed potato control area.
(3)
No owner shall grow more than 3 easily distinguishable potato
varieties without applying for and receiving the approval of the
committee.
(4)
No owner shall grow 2 or more varieties that are not easily
distinguishable unless the owner applies for in writing and receives
the approval of the committee.
(5)
An owner growing 2 or more varieties that are not easily
distinguishable shall store each variety in a separate storage
building or a fully separated section of a building.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 18 (c); 76/2022, s. 3.]
Disease, insect and weed control
24
(1)
All crops shall be rogued and diseased plants destroyed and injurious
insects and weeds controlled in accordance with instructions of the
committee issued in notice form to an owner or occupier.
(2)
The notice referred to in subsection (1) shall allow the owner or
occupier at least 7 days from date of delivery of the notice to do the
things required by the notice.
(3)
The notice shall be deemed to be delivered to the owner or occupier on
the day it is handed personally to the owner or occupier, or is posted
up in some prominent place on the premises, or on the day when the
owner or occupier would in the ordinary course of the post receive the
notice when the notice is sent to the owner's or occupier's last known
address by prepaid registered mail.
(4)
Where potatoes do not meet the standards of a seed potato control
area, the owner of the potatoes shall dispose of them as the committee
may direct.
(5)
Where the committee has reasonable grounds to believe that a
warehouse, place of storage, container, vehicle or machine within the
seed potato control area is infected with a readily transmissible
potato disease, the committee may by notice direct the owner to
disinfect it at the time and place and in the manner set out in the
notice.
[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, s. 18 (b); 76/2022, s. 11.]
Offence
25
An owner or occupier within the seed potato control area who fails to
comply with the requirements of a notice given under section 24 (5)
commits an offence.
Banking
26
The committee shall deposit all money received by it in a bank, credit
union or trust company and shall not disburse any money other than by
means of cheques signed by the chair and secretary treasurer.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 11.]
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Seed Potato Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 421, s. 10.]
