




International Trusts Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 237






Definition




1


In this Act,
"Convention"
means the Convention on the Law Applicable to Trusts and their
Recognition set out in the Schedule.






Application of Convention




2


The Convention applies in British Columbia.









[Note: Convention in force in the Province of British Columbia
May 14, 1993; see Notice, Part II Gazette, Vol. 36
(1993), p. 301.]








Extension of Convention




3

(1)


The Convention is extended to trusts declared by judicial decisions
including constructive trusts and resulting trusts.




(2)

Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring that recognition
or effect be given to a trust declared by judicial decision in another
state or a severable aspect of such a trust, if the Supreme Court is
satisfied that there is a substantial reason for refusing to give
recognition or effect to the trust or aspect.




Schedule



CONVENTION ON THE LAW APPLICABLE TO TRUSTS AND ON THEIR RECOGNITION


The States signatory to the present Convention,

Considering that the trust, as developed in courts of equity in common
law jurisdictions and adopted with some modifications in other
jurisdictions, is a unique legal institution,


Desiring to establish common provisions on the law applicable to trusts
and to deal with the most important issues concerning the recognition of
trusts,


Have resolved to conclude a Convention to this effect, and have agreed
on the following provisions —


CHAPTER ONE — SCOPE


Article 1


This Convention specifies the law applicable to trusts and governs their
recognition.


Article 2


For the purposes of this Convention, the term "trust" refers to the
legal relationships created — inter vivos or on death — by a person, the
settlor, when assets have been placed under the control of a trustee for
the benefit of a beneficiary or for a specified purpose.

A trust has the following characteristics —

(a) the assets constitute a separate fund and are not a part of the
trustee's own estate;


(b) title to the trust assets stands in the name of the trustee or in
the name of another person on behalf of the trustee;


(c) the trustee has the power and the duty, in respect of which he is
accountable, to manage, employ or dispose of the assets in accordance
with the terms of the trust and the special duties imposed on him by
law.


The reservation by the settlor of certain rights and powers, and the
fact that the trustee may himself have rights as a beneficiary, are not
necessarily inconsistent with the existence of a trust.


Article 3


The Convention applies only to trusts created voluntarily and evidenced
in writing.


Article 4


The Convention does not apply to preliminary issues relating to the
validity of wills or of other acts by virtue of which assets are
transferred to the trustee.


Article 5


The Convention does not apply to the extent that the law specified by
Chapter II does not provide for trusts or the category of trusts
involved.


CHAPTER II — APPLICABLE LAW


Article 6


A trustee shall be governed by the law chosen by the settlor. The choice
must be express or be implied in the terms of the instrument creating or
the writing evidencing the trust, interpreted, if necessary, in the
light of the circumstances of the case.


Where the law chosen under the previous paragraph does not provide for
trusts or the category of trust involved, the choice shall not be
effective and the law specified in Article 7 shall apply.


Article 7


Where no applicable law has been chosen, a trust shall be governed by
the law with which it is most closely connected.


In ascertaining the law with which a trust is most closely connected
reference shall be made in particular to —


(a) the place of administration of the trust designated by the settlor;

(b) the situs of the assets of the trust;

(c) the place of residence or business of the trustee;


(d) the objects of the trust and the places where they are to be
fulfilled.


Article 8


The law specified by Article 6 or 7 shall govern the validity of the
trust, its construction, its effects, and the administration of the
trust.

In particular that law shall govern —

(a) the appointment, resignation and removal of trustees, the capacity
to act as a trustee, and the devolution of the office of trustee;


(b) the rights and duties of trustees among themselves;


(c) the right of trustees to delegate in whole or in part the discharge
of their duties or the exercise of their powers;


(d) the power of trustees to administer or to dispose of trust assets,
to create security interests in the trust assets, or to acquire new
assets;

(e) the powers of investment of trustees;

(f) restrictions on the duration of the trust, and on the power to
accumulate the income of the trust;


(g) the relationships between the trustees and the beneficiaries
including the personal liability of the trustees to the beneficiaries;

(h) the variation or termination of the trust;
(i) the distribution of the trust assets;

(j) the duty of trustees to account for their administration.


Article 9


In applying this Chapter, a severable aspect of the trust, particularly
matters of administration, may be governed by a different law.


Article 10


The law applicable to the validity of the trust shall determine whether
that law or the law governing a severable aspect of the trust may be
replaced by another law.


CHAPTER III — RECOGNITION


Article 11


A trust created in accordance with the law specified by the preceding
Chapter shall be recognized as a trust.


Such recognition shall imply as a minimum, that the trust property
constitutes a separate fund, that the trustee may sue and be sued in his
capacity as trustee, and that he may appear to act in this capacity
before a notary or any person acting in an official capacity.


In so far as the law applicable to the trust requires or provides, such
recognition shall imply, in particular —


(a) that personal creditors of the trustee shall have no recourse
against the trust assets;


(b) that the trust assets shall not form part of the trustee's estate on
his insolvency or bankruptcy;


(c) that the trust assets shall not form part of the matrimonial
property of the trustee or his spouse nor part of the trustee's estate
on his death;


(d) that the trust assets may be recovered when the trustee, in breach
of trust, has mingled trust assets with his own property or has
alienated trust assets. However, the rights and obligations of any third
party holder of the assets shall remain subject to the law determined by
the choice of law rules of the forum.


Article 12


Where the trustee desires to register assets, movable or immovable, or
documents of title to them, he shall be entitled, in so far as this is
not prohibited by or inconsistent with the law of the State where
registration is sought, to do so in his capacity as trustee or in such
other way that the existence of the trust is disclosed.


Article 13


No State shall be bound to recognize a trust the significant elements of
which, except for the choice of the applicable law, the place of
administration and the habitual residence of the trustee, are more
closely connected with States which do not have the institution of the
trust or the category of trust involved.


Article 14


The Convention shall not prevent the application of rules of law more
favourable to the recognition of trusts.


CHAPTER IV — GENERAL CLAUSES


Article 15


The Convention does not prevent the application of provisions of the law
designated by the conflicts rules of the forum, in so far as those
provisions cannot be derogated from by voluntary act, relating in
particular to the following matters —


(a) the protection of minors and incapable parties;


(b) the personal and proprietary effects of marriage;


(c) succession rights, testate and intestate, especially the
indefeasible shares of spouses and relatives;


(d) the transfer of title to property and security interests in
property;


(e) the protection of creditors in matters of insolvency;


(f) the protection, in other respects, of third parties acting in good
faith.


If recognition of a trust is prevented by application of the preceding
paragraph, the court shall try to give effect to the objects of the
trust by other means.


Article 16


The Convention does not prevent the application of those provisions of
the law of the forum which must be applied even to international
situations, irrespective of rules of conflict of laws.


If another State has a sufficiently close connection with a case then,
in exceptional circumstances, effect may also be given to rules of that
state which have the same character as mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Any Contracting State may, by way of reservation, declare
that it will not apply the second paragraph of this article.


Article 17


In the Convention the word 'law' means the rules of law in force in a
State other than its rules of conflict of laws.


Article 18


The provisions of the Convention may be disregarded when their
application would be manifestly incompatible with public policy
(ordre public)
.


Article 19


Nothing in the Convention shall prejudice the powers of States in fiscal
matters.


Article 20


Any Contracting State may, at any time, declare that the provisions of
the Convention will be extended to trusts declared by judicial
decisions. This declaration shall be notified to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and will come into effect on
the day when this notification is received.


Article 31 is applicable to the withdrawal of this declaration in the
same way as it applies to a denunciation of the Convention.


Article 21


Any Contracting State may reserve the right to apply the provisions of
Chapter III only to trusts the validity of which is governed by the law
of a Contracting State.


Article 22


The Convention applies to trusts regardless of the date on which they
were created.


However, a Contracting State may reserve the right not to apply the
Convention to trusts created before the date on which, in relation to
that State, the Convention enters into force.


Article 23


For the purposes of identifying the law applicable under the Convention,
where a State comprises several territorial units each of which has its
own rules of law in respect of trusts, any reference to the law of that
State to be construed as referring to the law in force in the
territorial unit in question.


Article 24


A State within which different territorial units have their own rules of
law in respect of trusts is not bound to apply the Convention to
conflicts solely between the laws of such units.


Article 25


The Convention shall not affect any other international instrument
containing provisions on matters governed by this Convention to which a
Contracting State is, or becomes, a Party.


CHAPTER V — FINAL CLAUSES


Article 26


Any State may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance,
approval or accession, or at the time of making a declaration in terms
of Article 29, make the reservations provided for in
Articles 16, 21 and 22.

No other reservation shall be permitted.

Any Contracting State may at any time withdraw a reservation which it
has made; the reservation shall cease to have effect on the first day of
the third calendar month after notification of the withdrawal.


Article 27


The Convention shall be open for signature by the States which were
members of the Hague Conference on Private International Law at the time
of its Fifteenth Session.


It shall be ratified, accepted or approved and the instruments of
ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.


Article 28


Any other State may accede to the Convention after it has entered into
force in accordance with Article 30, paragraph 1.


The instrument of accession shall be deposited with the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.


The accession shall have effect only as regards the relations between
the acceding State and those Contracting States which have not raised an
objection to its accession in the twelve months after the receipt of the
notification referred to in Article 32. Such an objection may also
be raised by Member States at the time when they ratify, accept or
approve the Convention after an accession. Any such objection shall be
notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands.


Article 29


If a State has two or more territorial units in which different systems
of law are applicable, it may at the time of signature, ratification,
acceptance, approval or accession declare that this Convention shall
extend to all of its territorial units or only to one or more of them
and may modify this declaration by submitting another declaration at any
time. Any such declaration shall be notified to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and shall state expressly the
territorial units to which the Convention applies.


If a State makes no declaration under this article, the Convention is to
extend to all territorial units of that State.


Article 30


The Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the third
calendar month after the deposit of the third instrument of
ratification, acceptance or approval referred to in Article 27.

Thereafter the Convention shall enter into force —

(a) for each State ratifying, accepting or approving it subsequently, on
the first day of the third calendar month after the deposit of its
instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval;


(b) for each acceding State, on the first day of the third calendar
month after the expiry of the period referred to in Article 28;


(c) for a territorial unit to which the Convention has been extended in
conformity with Article 29, on the first day of the third calendar
month after the notification referred to in that article.


Article 31


Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention by a formal
notification in writing addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands, depositary of the Convention.


The denunciation takes effect on the first day of the month following
the expiration of six months after the notification is received by the
depositary or on such later date as is specified in the notification.


Article 32


The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall
notify the States Members of the Conference and the States which have
acceded in accordance with Article 28, of the following —


(a) the signatures and ratifications, acceptances or approvals referred
to in Article 27;


(b) the date on which the Convention enters into force in accordance
with Article 30;


(c) the accessions and the objections raised to accessions referred to
in Article 28;

(d) the extensions referred to in Article 29;
(e) the declarations referred to in Article 20;

(f) the reservation or withdrawals referred to in Article 26;

(g) the denunciations referred to in Article 31.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have
signed this Convention.


Done at The Hague, on the....................... day of
.........................., 19 ............, in English and French, both
texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited
in the archives of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and
of which a certified copy shall be sent, through diplomatic channels, to
each of the States Members of the Hague Conference on Private
International Law at the date of its Fifteenth Session.








[Note: Convention in force in the Province of British Columbia
May 14, 1993; see Notice, Part II Gazette,
Vol. 36 (1993), p. 301.]






