




Legislative Assembly Management Committee Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 258






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"additional party"

means a political party with 2 or more members in the Legislative
Assembly but does not include the government party or official
opposition party;



"chair of the Government Caucus"

means the member of the Legislative Assembly designated as such by the
government party;



"chair of the Official Opposition Caucus"

means the member of the Legislative Assembly designated as such by the
official opposition party;


"committee"
means the Legislative Assembly Management Committee continued by
section 2;



"Confederation Garden Park"

means the park described in the Schedule;



"Government House Leader"

means the member of the Executive Council named as such by the
Premier;



"legislative grounds"

means the area bounded by Belleville, Menzies, Superior and Government
Streets in the City of Victoria, British Columbia;



"Legislative Precinct"

means




(a)

the Parliament Buildings,




(a.1)

the legislative grounds and Confederation Garden Park,




(b)

other buildings in Victoria or parts of them that are from time to
time occupied and used by members of the Legislative Assembly for the
purpose of their parliamentary duties including any premises from time
to time occupied by officers and staff of the Legislative Assembly,
and




(c)

other land or buildings or both, other than constituency offices,
designated by minute of the committee;



"Opposition House Leader"

means the member of the Legislative Assembly named as such by the
Leader of the Official Opposition;


"Speaker"
means, subject to section 6, the person holding office as such under
section 37 of the

Constitution Act

.






Continuation of the committee




2

(1)


The Legislative Assembly Management Committee is continued consisting
of the following members of the Legislative Assembly:




(a)

the Speaker;




(b)

the minister;




(c)

the Government House Leader;




(d)

the chair of the Government Caucus;




(e)

the Opposition House Leader;




(f)

the chair of the Official Opposition Caucus;




(g)

one member appointed from each additional party by the members of that
party;




(h)

for each member appointed under paragraph (g) one additional
government member from the Government Caucus appointed by the
Government House Leader.




(2)

The members of the committee referred to in subsection (1) (g) and (h)
must be appointed within 45 days from the final voting day for the
general election that preceded the Parliament.




(3)

The first meeting of the committee must be held within 14 days of the
appointment of the members referred to in subsection (1) (g) and (h).




(4)

A member of the committee referred to in subsection (1) (b) to (h) may
appoint a designate to take the member's place at a meeting of the
committee.




(5)

The Speaker is the chair of the committee and in the Speaker's absence
the Deputy Speaker may act as chair and, with respect to the business
of the committee, exercise the powers of the Speaker.




(6)

A quorum of the committee is 5 members of the committee consisting of




(a)

the Speaker, or in the Speaker's absence, the Deputy Speaker,




(b)

3 of the persons referred to in subsection (1) (b), (c), (d) or (h),
and




(c)

one of the persons referred to in subsection (1) (e), (f) or (g).




(7)

Each member of the committee other than the chair has a vote, and if
the votes are equal the chair has a deciding vote.




(8)

The members of the committee or their designates must attend all
meetings of the committee as and when called by the chair, unless
prevented from doing so by illness or for other unavoidable reason.






Powers and duties of the committee




3

(1)


The committee has jurisdiction to deal with all matters affecting




(a)

subject to any other enactment and any rules of conduct established by
the Legislative Assembly, policies for the administration of the
Legislative Assembly and for the conduct of the members of the
Legislative Assembly,




(b)

the provision of facilities and services, including allocation within
the Legislative Precinct, that are required for the effective
functioning of the Legislative Assembly,




(c)

the appointment, supervision and management of staff of the
Legislative Assembly, other than permanent officers of the Legislative
Assembly,




(d)

review of estimates of expenditure for the Legislative Assembly for
Vote 1 including the preparation of forecasts and analyses of
expenditures and commitments of the Legislative Assembly,




(d.1)

payments of Capital City allowance to members of the Legislative
Assembly,




(d.2)

[Repealed 2007-23-16.]




(d.3)

the voluntary group registered retirement savings plan that was
established by the committee for members of the Legislative Assembly,




(e)

payments to members of the Legislative Assembly to defray expenses in
the performance of their duties, including




(i)

expenses for residence in the Capital Regional District during the
legislative session and for any additional periods specified by the
committee,




(ii)

protocol expenses,




(iii)

travel and associated expenses of the members and persons accompanying
the members, and




(iv)

expenses for service on legislative committees when the Legislative
Assembly is not sitting,




(f)

payments or services to members for constituency offices, including
payments or services for staffing, maintaining the offices,
communication expenses and travel expenses,




(f.1)

a severance allowance for persons when they cease to be members of the
Legislative Assembly, and for this purpose may establish a severance
plan that sets out the circumstances in which such persons will be
eligible for the allowance, the amounts of the allowance payments, and
any other matter related to severance,




(f.2)

when and how




(i)

payments referred to in paragraphs (d.1), (e), (f) and (f.1) are
required to be provided by the government, and




(ii)

amounts required to be contributed by the government under the terms
of the plan described in paragraph (d.3) are to be paid, and




(g)

other matters necessary for the efficient and effective operation and
management of the Legislative Assembly.




(1.1)

[Repealed 2007-23-16.]




(1.2)

Despite the

Income Tax Act

, a Capital City allowance payable to a member under subsection (1)
(d.1) is deemed not to be wages within the meaning of that Act, and
not to form part of the income of that member for any purpose of that
Act.




(2)

Subsection (1) (b) does not empower the committee to allocate space or
provide services within the Legislative Precinct that are necessary
for




(a)

ministerial offices,




(b)

ministerial administration and support staff, or




(c)

the functioning of the Executive Council.






Powers and duties of the Speaker




4

(1)


Subject to any direction of the committee, the Speaker is responsible
for the day to day administration of the Legislative Assembly.




(1.1)

In accordance with the regulations, the Speaker is responsible for the




(a)

provision of security within the Legislative Precinct, and




(b)

management of the use and enjoyment of the Legislative Precinct by the
public and by other persons.




(2)

The committee may delegate any of its powers to the Speaker.






Proceedings and business




5

(1)


The committee may determine its own procedures.




(2)

The committee speaks by minute duly adopted by the committee.




(3)

The committee may authorize payment of reasonable and actual expenses
incurred by its members




(a)

for attendance at meetings of the committee while the Legislative
Assembly is adjourned or prorogued, or




(b)

while engaged in the work of the committee while the Legislative
Assembly is adjourned or prorogued.




(4)

The committee must have its accounts or financial procedures examined
and reported on each fiscal year by a qualified person or firm
appointed by the committee.




(5)

A member of the public service is not eligible to be appointed under
subsection (4).




(6)

The Auditor General may examine the accounts and financial procedures
of the committee and report to the Speaker at the times that the
Auditor General considers appropriate.




(7)

Subsection (6) does not restrict the Auditor General from reporting to
the Legislative Assembly on any other matter that the Auditor General
considers to be in the public interest including the matters within
the jurisdiction of the committee under section 3.




(8)

The committee must promptly file its minutes and the reports referred
to in subsections (4) and (6) with the Clerk of the Legislative
Assembly who must




(a)

make the minutes and reports available to any person for inspection
without charge and during normal business hours, and




(b)

provide a copy of the minutes and reports on payment of a reasonable
copying charge.




(9)

The committee must report annually to the Legislative Assembly on the
decisions made by the committee during the previous year.




(10)

The report under subsection (9) must include the reports referred to
in subsections (4) and (6).






Dissolution of Legislative Assembly




6

(1)


After final voting day for a general election, the person holding the
office of Speaker immediately before final voting day is deemed for
the purposes of this Act to continue in office as Speaker until a
Speaker designate is named.




(2)

[Repealed 2011-13-125.]




(3)

A Speaker designate is deemed to be Speaker for the purposes of this
Act.




(4)

[Repealed 2011-13-125.]






Appropriation




6.1


Money required to be provided by or paid on behalf of the government
under this Act must be provided or paid by the Minister of Finance
from money appropriated for that purpose by the Legislative Assembly
or, in the absence of  an adequate appropriation for that
purpose, from the consolidated revenue fund.






Conflicts




7


If there is any conflict or inconsistency between




(a)

this Act or a minute of the committee issued under this Act, and




(b)

the

Financial Administration Act

or any regulation or directive made or given under it,


then, despite the

Financial Administration Act

, this Act or the minute of the committee prevails.






Power to make regulations




8

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

providing for the security of the Legislative Precinct;




(b)

regulating, permitting or prohibiting use of the Legislative Precinct
by the public or by other persons.




(2)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations establishing
penalties for failure to comply with the regulations made under this
section.




Schedule


CONFEDERATION GARDEN PARK


All those parcels of land in the City of Victoria with the following
legal descriptions:


Parcel Identifier: 009-386-980

Lot 890, Victoria City


Parcel Identifier: 009-387-021

Lot 891, Victoria City


Parcel Identifier: 009-387-030

Lot 894, Victoria City


Parcel Identifier: 009-387-056

Lot 995, Victoria City



