




Ministry of International Business and Immigration Act


[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER								304










Ministry continued





1



(1)


The Ministry of International Business and Immigration is continued as a ministry of the public service of British Columbia.






(2)


The minister is to continue to preside over and be responsible to the Lieutenant Governor in Council for the direction of the ministry.








Deputy, employees and Agents General





2



(1)


A deputy minister and other employees required to carry out the functions of the ministry may be appointed under the


Public Service Act


.






(2)


The minister may retain the services of consultants, experts and specialists and set their remuneration.






(3)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint persons to act as Agents General to represent British Columbia outside British Columbia.






(4)


Agents General hold office during pleasure and must, while acting as Agents General, have seals of office.






(5)


An Agent General may exercise all the functions of a commissioner for taking affidavits for British Columbia under the


Evidence Act


, and of a notary public under the


Notaries Act


.






(6)


All acts and things done or affirmations and declarations taken by an Agent General under this section and attested by the Agent General's official seal are as valid as if performed in British Columbia by a commissioner for taking affidavits or notary public.








Minister's duties





3



The duties, powers and functions of the minister extend to and include all matters relating to international business and immigration for British Columbia that are not, by law or by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, assigned to another minister, ministry, branch or agency of the government.








Purposes and functions of the ministry





4



The purposes and functions of the ministry are to






(a)


develop policy options and make recommendations to the government on trade, investment and immigration,






(b)


encourage and facilitate the export of British Columbia goods and services,






(c)


promote and attract investment into British Columbia by developing and implementing investment and immigration policies and programs,






(d)


manage and coordinate government involvement in policy and program initiatives having trade, investment and immigration objectives,






(e)


establish and maintain appropriate representation for British Columbia outside British Columbia,






(f)


plan for and manage the government's role in immigration, including the selection and settlement of immigrants to British Columbia, and






(g)


perform any other duties relating to international business and immigration that may be assigned by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.








Powers of the minister





5



The minister may






(a)


negotiate and enter into agreements or arrangements relating to trade, investment and immigration or any other matter referred to in section 3 or 4






(i)


subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, with the government of a province or the government of Canada, and






(ii)


with any other person, and






(b)


do other things the Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize for the purposes referred to in section 4.








Repealed





6



[Repealed 2000-23-48.]








Power to make regulations





7



(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in section 41 of the


Interpretation Act


.






(2)


Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations for the purposes of implementing an agreement with the government of a province or the government of Canada under section 5 (a).




