




Subpoena (Interprovincial) Act


[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER								442










Definitions





1



In this Act:



"court"

means any court in a province of Canada;



"subpoena"

means a subpoena or other document requiring a
person in a province, other than the province where the subpoena originates, to attend as
a witness, to produce documents or other articles or to testify before that
court.








Adoption of interprovincial subpoena





2



(1)


A court in British Columbia must receive and adopt as an order of the court a
subpoena from a court outside British Columbia if






(a)


the subpoena is accompanied by a certificate, attached to or endorsed on the
subpoena, signed by a judge of a superior, county or district court of the province
where the subpoena originates and impressed with the seal of that court, signifying
that, on hearing and examining the applicant or the applicant's counsel, the judge is
satisfied that the attendance, in the province where the subpoena originates, of the
person subpoenaed






(i)


is necessary for the adjudication of the proceeding in which the subpoena is
issued, and






(ii)


in relation to the nature and importance of the proceeding, is reasonable and
essential to the administration of justice in that province, and






(b)


the subpoena is accompanied by the witness fees and travelling expenses in
accordance with Schedule A.






(2)


The certificate referred to in subsection (1) (a) must be in the form set out in
Schedule B or in a similar form.








Immunity by law of other province





3



A court in British Columbia must not adopt a subpoena from another province under
section 2 unless the law of that other province has a provision similar to section 6
providing absolute immunity to a person in British Columbia who is required to attend as a
witness in the other province from all proceedings of the nature set out in section 6 and
within the jurisdiction of the Legislature of that other province, except a proceeding
grounded on events occurring during or after the required attendance of the person in the
other province.








Failure to comply with adopted subpoena





4



If a person who has been served with a subpoena adopted under section 2 and given
the witness fee and travelling expenses in accordance with Schedule A at least 10 days, or a
shorter period as the judge of the court in the province where the subpoena originates may
indicate in the certificate, before the date the person is required to attend in the court
in the province where the subpoena originates, fails without lawful excuse to comply with
the order, the person is in contempt of the adopting court and subject to the penalty that
court imposes.








Proceedings in British Columbia





5



(1)


If a party to a proceeding in any court in British Columbia causes a subpoena to
be issued for service in another province in Canada, the party may attend on a judge of
the Supreme Court, who must hear and examine the party or the party's counsel, if any, and
must sign a certificate if satisfied that the attendance in British Columbia of the person
subpoenaed as a witness






(a)


is necessary for the adjudication of the proceeding in which the subpoena is
issued, and






(b)


in relation to the nature and importance of the proceeding, is reasonable and
essential to the administration of justice in British Columbia.






(2)


The certificate must be in the form set out in Schedule B or in a similar
form.






(3)


The judge must cause the certificate to be impressed with the seal of the
court.






(4)


The certificate must be either attached to or endorsed on the subpoena.








No submission to jurisdiction





6



A person required to attend before a court in British Columbia by a subpoena adopted
by a court outside British Columbia






(a)


is deemed, while in British Columbia in answer to the subpoena, not to have
submitted to the jurisdiction of the courts of British Columbia except as a witness in the
proceedings in which the person is subpoenaed, and






(b)


is absolutely immune from seizure of goods, service of process, execution of
judgment, garnishment, imprisonment or molestation of any kind relating to a legal or
judicial right, cause, action, proceeding or process within the jurisdiction of the
Legislature of British Columbia except a proceeding grounded on events occurring during or
after the required attendance of the person in British Columbia.








Order for additional witness fees and expenses





7



(1)


A person who is required to attend before a court in British Columbia by a
subpoena adopted by a court outside British Columbia, may request the court in British
Columbia to order additional fees and expenses to be paid for the person's attendance as a
witness.






(2)


If satisfied that the fees and expenses previously paid to the person for the
person's attendance are insufficient, the court may order the party who obtained the
subpoena to pay the person at once such additional fees and expenses as the court
considers sufficient.






(3)


Fees and expenses paid under an order made under this section are disbursements in
the cause.








Scope of Act





8



This Act does not apply to a subpoena that is issued with respect to a criminal
offence under an Act of Canada.





Schedule A



Witness Fees and Travelling Expenses



The witness fees and travelling expenses required to be given to the witness on
service of an interprovincial subpoena are a sum of money or a sum of money together with
valid travel warrants, sufficient to satisfy the following requirements:





1


The fare for transportation by the most direct route via public
commercial passenger carrier between the witness' place of residence and the place
where the witness is required to attend court, in accordance with the following
rules:






(a)


if the journey or part of it can be made by air, rail or bus, that part
of the journey must be by airline, rail or bus by tourist class or equivalent
class via carriers on which the witness can complete the total journey to the
place where the witness is required to attend court on the day before the witness'
attendance is required;






(b)


if railway transportation is necessary for part of the journey, and
sleeping accommodation would normally be obtained for such a journey, the fare for
sleeping accommodation must be included;






(c)


in calculating the fare for transportation, the most rapid form of
transportation by regularly scheduled carrier must be accorded priority over all
other forms;






(d)


if the material the witness is required to produce in court is of such a
weight or size as to attract extra fares or charges, the amount required must be
included.




2


The cost of hotel accommodation for the total journey and for not less
than 3 days at the place where the witness is required to attend court, in an
amount not less than $60.




3


The cost of meals for the total journey and for not less than 3 days at
the place where the witness is required to attend court, in an amount not less
than $48.




4


In addition to the amounts described above, an allowance of $20 for each
day of absence from the ordinary residence of the witness, and the witness must be
paid for not less than 3 days on account of this allowance, in an amount not less
than $60.







Schedule B




Subpoena (Interprovincial) Act





Certificate



I, ..................................................

(name of
judge)

, a judge of the ...............................................

(name of Supreme Court)

certify that I have heard and examined
............................................

(name of applicant party or the
party's counsel)

, who seeks to compel the attendance of
......................................................

(name of witness)

to
produce documents or other articles or to testify, or both, in a proceeding in British
Columbia in the ................................................................

(name of court in which witness is to appear)

in the case of
.....................................................

(style of proceeding).

I further certify that I am satisfied that the appearance of
.................................................................

(name of
witness)

as a witness in the proceeding is necessary for the adjudication of the
proceeding, and, in relation to the nature and importance of the proceeding, is reasonable
and essential to the administration of justice in British Columbia.


The

Subpoena (Interprovincial) Act

makes the
following provision for the immunity of
......................................................

(name of
witness).



A person required to attend before a court in British Columbia by subpoena
adopted by a court outside British Columbia


(a) is deemed, while in British Columbia in answer to the subpoena, not to have
submitted to the jurisdiction of the courts of British Columbia except as a witness in
the proceedings in which the person is subpoenaed, and


(b) is absolutely immune from seizure of goods, service of process, execution of
judgment, garnishment, imprisonment or molestation of any kind relating to a legal or
judicial right, cause, action, proceeding or process within the jurisdiction of the
Legislature of British Columbia except a proceeding grounded on events occurring during
or after the required attendance of the person in British Columbia.


Dated ...............................................

[month, day,
year].




(Seal of court)




(Signature of
judge)

...............................................



