"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Railway Act
Part XIV: Occupational Safety and Health Regulation
B.C. Reg. 74/93
Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.
B.C. Reg. 74/93
M84/93
Deposited March 11, 1993
Railway Act
Part XIV: Occupational Safety and Health Regulation
Division 100 - Interpretation
Definitions
100.01
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act"
means the
Railway Act
;
"accident"
means an unplanned interruption of an orderly process involving
the motion of people, objects or substances;
"adequate"
means sufficient, satisfactory or proportionate;
"appropriate"
means suitable and proper;
"atmospheric contaminant"
means a harmful, irritating or nuisance material in the air,
usually occurring in the form of dust, fume, gas, vapour or mist;
"board"
means the Workers' Compensation Board of British Columbia (WCB);
"camp accommodation"
means living, eating or sleeping quarters provided with or without
charge in cabins, tents, dwellings, bunkhouses or other
structures, fixed or mobile, including those mounted on rolling
stock not in operation, that are established, operated or
maintained for or by a railway as living quarters for the
railway's agents, employees or other persons subject to the Act;
"certificate"
means a certificate of inspection made by an inspector;
"combustible"
, in relation to a material, means capable of burning with an open
flame;
"committee"
means an occupational safety and health committee established by a
railway;
"confined space"
, in relation to a tank, silo, storage bin, process vessel or
other enclosure not designated or intended for human occupancy,
means a space in respect of which, when a person is required to
enter therein, special precautions are necessary to
(a) protect the person from a harmful atmosphere therein,
(b) prevent the person from becoming entrapped in a material
stored therein, or
(c) otherwise ensure the person's safety therein;
"contaminant"
means a harmful, irritating or nuisance material that is foreign
to the normal composition of the substance used;
"corrosive"
means capable of causing physical change, usually deterioration or
destruction, by chemical or electrochemical action as contrasted
to erosion caused by mechanical action;
"CSA"
means the Canadian Standards Association;
"dust"
means finely divided solid particles dispersed in air which have
been formed by mechanical means such as grinding, crushing,
blasting or drilling;
"employee"
means a railway employee or other person subject to the Act;
"feasible"
means possible or practicable;
"flammable"
refers to a liquid which, at normal room temperature or under
conditions of use, generates sufficient vapour to propagate a
flame through its vapour phase on contact with a source of
ignition (normally this would apply to liquids having a flash
point of 100°F (38°C) or less);
"fume"
means solid particles dispersed in air resulting from some
chemical or physical process that involves a change of state;
"gas"
means an aeriform or completely elastic fluid which does not
become liquid or solid at ordinary temperature and pressure;
"hazardous substance"
includes a controlled product and any chemical, biological or
physical agent that, by reason of a property that the agent
possesses, is hazardous to the safety or health of a person
exposed to it;
"Industrial First Aid Regulations"
means B.C. Reg. 343/79, the Industrial First Aid Regulations
1
;
"inspector"
means the chief inspecting engineer, assistant chief inspecting
engineer or an inspecting engineer or other inspector of the
ministry appointed under the Act or the
Public Service Act
;
"maintenance-of-way equipment"
means track motor cars or other rolling stock used for maintaining
rails, tracks and roadbed infrastructure;
"medical treatment"
means treatment administered by a medical practitioner or by a
registered professional under the direction of a medical
practitioner, but does not include the routine administration of
first aid;
"on-board accommodation"
means living, eating or sleeping quarters provided on rolling
stock that is operated by a railway for the accommodation of
employees;
"person"
means any person, including a railway employee, that is subject to
the Act;
"place of employment"
means any workplace where an employee is engaged in work for a
railway;
"qualified person"
means, in relation to a specified duty, a person who, because of
his or her knowledge, training and experience, is qualified to
perform that duty safely and properly;
"rolling stock"
means a locomotive, caboose, self-propelled car, box car, tank
car, maintenance-of-way equipment, snow plow, flanger or any other
mobile equipment on wheels designed to move on rails or tracks;
"shop"
, in relation to a railway, means an establishment where motive
power, rolling stock or other equipment is built or maintained and
includes all buildings, structures, tracks and yards and all
machinery and apparatus installed or used for that purpose;
"washroom"
means a room that contains a toilet.
Division 101 - Application
Common application of regulations
101.01
Divisions 100 to 107 apply to all railway employees and other
persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Act.
Application to employees performing "non-operating" functions
101.02
Divisions 206 to 245 apply to all railway employees and other
persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Act while not
employed on trains in operation.
Application to employees performing "operating" functions
101.03
Divisions 300 to 309 apply to all railway employees and other
persons who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Act while
employed on trains in operation.
Absence of specific regulations
101.04
Notwithstanding the absence of a specific regulation, all
employment and work must be carried out without undue risk of
injury or occupational illness to any person subject to this
regulation.
Conflict with codes and standards
101.05
If there is any conflict between this regulation and any code or
standard with which compliance is required by this regulation, the
provisions of this regulation govern.
Division 102 - Directives, Reports and Notices
Directives and appeals
102.01
(1)  Every railway or person must promptly comply with an
order or directive issued by the minister, or comply as soon
thereafter as provided by the order or directive.
(2)  Every railway or person, or a representative of the
railway or person, that is affected by an order or directive
issued under this regulation may appeal the order or directive to
the minister.
(3)  The appeal under subsection (2) must be made in writing
within 21 days or such further period as the minister may allow,
and must state the reasons for the appeal.
(4)  An appeal in itself does not operate as a stay in
respect of any order or directive.
Inspection reports
102.02
(1)  If an inspection report is given or sent to a railway
for posting at a place of employment, it must be posted forthwith
by the railway at the place of employment covered by the report
and in a location conspicuous to employees engaged at that place.
(2)  An inspection report must remain posted for a minimum of
45 days.
(3)  If the posting of an inspection report is not feasible
because of transient operations, the railway must adopt other
measures appropriate to the circumstances to bring the contents of
the report to the attention of the affected employees.
(4)  If an occupational safety and health committee is
required at the place of employment, the railway must produce for
the committee the inspection report, or a copy of the report, at
or before the next meeting of the committee.
Posting of notices and placards
102.03
Every railway must post in a conspicuous place at each place of
employment any placard or notice issued by the minister.
Regulations available to employees
102.04
Every railway must keep a copy of this regulation readily
available at each place of employment for reference by all
employees.
Division 103 - Occupational Safety and Health Programs and
Committees
General program requirements
103.01
(1)  A railway having 20 or more employees must establish and
maintain an occupational safety and health program as required by
this Division.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), an occupational safety
and health program may be required when, in the opinion of the
minister, such a program is necessary.
(3)  If a railway, other than a common carrier, already has
an occupational safety and health program that complies with the
requirements of the Workers' Compensation Board, that program may,
on written request to the minister, be deemed sufficient for the
purposes of this Division.
Program requirements for small railways
103.02
(1)  Subject to section 103.01 (3), if the number of
employees is less than 20, a railway must establish and maintain a
less formal program based on regular monthly meetings with
employees for discussion of safety and health matters.
(2)  The meetings must be directed to matters concerning the
correction of unsafe conditions and practices and the maintenance
of cooperative interest in the safety of the employees.
(3)  The railway must maintain a record of the meetings and
the matters discussed.
Content of programs
103.03
An occupational safety and health program required by this
Division must be designed to prevent injuries and occupational
illness and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
program must include
(a) a statement of the railway's aims and the
responsibilities of the railway, supervisors and employees,
(b) provision for the regular inspection at appropriate
intervals of premises, equipment, work methods and work practices
to ensure that prompt action is undertaken to correct any
hazardous conditions found,
(c) written instructions, where appropriate, to supplement
this regulation that are available for reference by all employees,
(d) provision for holding periodic management meetings for
the purpose of reviewing safety and health activities and accident
trends, and for the determination of necessary courses of action,
(e) provision for the prompt investigation of accidents to
determine the action necessary to prevent their reoccurrence, as
required by Division 104,
(f) the establishment and maintenance of an occupational
safety and health committee, constituted and functioning as
required by sections 103.04 and 103.05,
(g) the maintenance of records and statistics, including
reports of inspections and accident investigations, with provision
for making this information available to the occupational safety
and health committee and, on request, to an inspector, any union
representing the employees at the place of employment or, where
there is no union, the employees at the place of employment, and
(h) provision by the railway for the instruction and
supervision of employees in the safe performance of their work.
Committee membership
103.04
(1)  The occupational safety and health committee must have
(a) not fewer than 4 regular members employed by the railway
and experienced in the types of work carried on by the railway,
(b) at least one half of its members elected or appointed by
the employees and the remaining members designated by the
management of the railway, and
(c) a chairman and secretary elected from and by the members
of the committee, and if the chairman exercises management
functions the secretary must be an employee who does not and vice
versa.
(2)  If the size or nature of the railway precludes the
effective functioning of a single committee, additional committees
may be established as the situation requires or as directed by the
minister.
(3)  If a railway, other than a common carrier, already has a
committee that complies with the requirements of the Workers'
Compensation Board and the committee includes at least one full or
part-time railway employee, subsection (1) (a) may, on written
request, be waived by the minister.
(4)  A member of a committee is entitled to such time from
work as is necessary to attend meetings or to carry out any other
functions as a member of the committee and, for the purpose of
calculating wages owing to the member, any time spent by the
member while carrying out any functions as a member of the
committee is deemed to have been spent at work.
Function of committee
103.05
(1)  The committee must
(a) assist in creating a safe place of work,
(b) recommend actions which will improve the effectiveness of
the occupational safety and health program, and
(c) promote compliance with this regulation.
(2)  Without limiting the generality of the subsection (1),
the committee must
(a) determine that regular inspections of all places of
employment and accommodations have been carried out,
(b) determine that accident investigations have been made,
(c) recommend measures required to attain compliance with
this regulation and the correction of hazardous conditions,
(d) appoint, where feasible, at least one member who
exercises management functions and one member who does not, to
participate in the inspections and investigations,
(e) determine that the structures, equipment, machinery,
tools, methods of operation and work practices are in accordance
with this regulation and all other regulations as applicable under
the Act,
(f) consider recommendations from all employees with respect
to occupational safety and health matters and recommend
implementation where warranted,
(g) hold regular meetings at least once each month for the
review of
(i)  reports of current accidents or cases of occupational
illness, their causes and means of prevention,
(ii)  remedial action taken or required by the reports of
investigations and inspections, and
(iii)  any other matters relating to occupational safety and
health,
(h) record the proceedings of the committee in a form
acceptable to the minister, and
(i) promptly forward a copy of all minutes
(i)  to the management of the railway who must make copies
available to those involved in the occupational safety and health
program,
(ii)  to the minister, as requested, if the minutes are with
respect to railway related matters, and
(iii)  to any organization representing the employees if
requested by the organization.
Division 104 - Accident and Occupational Illness Reports and
Investigations
Report to the minister
104.01
Every railway must inform the minister of each accident and
occupational illness as required by B.C. Reg. 38/91, (Part XIII)
Notification and Reporting of Railway Accidents Regulation and
B.C. Reg. 39/91, (Part XV) Notification and Reporting of Rail
Transit Accidents Regulation.
Accidents and occupational illnesses to be investigated
104.02
Except in the case of a vehicle accident occurring on a public
street or highway, every railway must promptly initiate an
investigation into the cause of each accident and occupational
illness that
(a) involves injury and is required to be reported by B.C.
Reg. 38/91, (Part XIII) Notification and Reporting of Railway
Accidents Regulation and B.C. Reg. 39/91, (Part XV) Notification
and Reporting of Rail Transit Accidents Regulation,
(b) does not involve injury but has a potential for causing
serious injury, or
(c) involves an occupational illness.
Investigators' qualifications
104.03
(1)  Investigations referred to in section 104.02 must be
carried out by persons knowledgeable of the type of work involved.
(2)  The investigation must as far as possible
(a) determine the cause or causes of the occurrence,
(b) identify any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which
contributed in any manner to the occurrence, and
(c) develop recommended corrective action to prevent similar
occurrences.
Investigation reports
104.04
The railway must ensure that an investigation report is prepared
that addresses those items in section 104.03 (2).
Reporting for compensation purposes
104.05
Every railway must report to the Workers' Compensation Board, on
the appropriate forms provided by the board, each occurrence for
which compensation may be claimed.
Follow-up action and report
104.06
Every railway must initiate corrective action without undue delay
to prevent similar occurrences to those referred to in section
104.02 and must make a report of the action taken to the
occupational safety and health committee or, if there is no such
committee, must post the report for reference by the employees.
Division 105 - Right to Refuse Dangerous Work
Work restrictions
105.01
(1)  A person must not carry out, or cause to be carried out,
any work process, or operate, or cause to be operated, any tool,
appliance or equipment if that person has reasonable cause to
believe that to do so would create an undue hazard to the health
or safety of any person.
(2)  A person who refuses to carry out a work process or
refuses to operate any tool, appliance or equipment must promptly
report the reasons for the refusal to his or her supervisor or to
another person exercising a management function.
(3)  Upon receiving the report made under subsection (2), the
supervisor or other person exercising the management function must
promptly investigate the matter and
(a) ensure that any unsafe condition is remedied without
delay, or
(b) reject the report if, in the opinion of the supervisor or
other person, the report is not valid, and inform the person who
made the report of its rejection.
(4)  If the procedures under subsection (3) do not resolve
the matter and the person continues to refuse to carry out the
work process or continues to refuse to operate the tool, appliance
or equipment, the supervisor or other person exercising the
management function who received the report must investigate the
matter in the presence of the person who made the report and in
the presence of
(a) a representative of the occupational safety and health
committee who does not exercise a management function,
(b) an employee who is selected by a trade union representing
the person who made the report, or
(c) any other reasonably available employee selected by the
person who made the report if there is no occupational safety and
health committee or the person who made the report is not
represented by a trade union.
(5)  If the investigation under subsection (4) does not
resolve the matter and the person continues to refuse to carry out
the work process or continues to refuse to operate the tool,
appliance or equipment, both the supervisor or other person
exercising the management function who received the report and the
person who made the report must promptly notify an inspector, and
the inspector must investigate the matter without undue delay and
issue whatever order he or she deems necessary.
(6)  Before an investigation by the inspector and the
issuance of an order, the railway must not assign any other person
to carry out the work process or to operate the tool, appliance or
equipment unless that other person has been advised of the refusal
under subsections (2) and (4).
(7)  A person is not subject to disciplinary action because
he or she has acted in compliance with this Division or an order
made by an inspector.
(8)  The temporary assignment to alternative work of any
person who under this section refuses to carry out a work process
or refuses to operate any tool, appliance or equipment must be at
no loss in pay to that person until the matter is resolved, and is
deemed not to constitute disciplinary action.
Division 106 - General
Railway's responsibility to instruct
106.01
Every railway must ensure that adequate direction and instruction
is given to each employee in the safe performance of his or her
duties.
Supervisor's responsibility to instruct
106.02
Every supervisor must be responsible for the proper instruction of
each employee under his or her direction and control to ensure
that the employee's work is performed without undue risk.
Physical and mental impairments
106.03
An employee with a physical or mental impairment must not be
assigned to work where such an impairment endangers the employee
or any other person.
Impairment by alcohol, drug or other substances
106.04
An employee must not enter or remain on, or be permitted to enter
or remain on, the premises of any place of employment while his or
her ability to work is so affected by alcohol, a drug or other
substance as to endanger the health or safety of the employee or
any other person.
Improper conduct
106.05
An employee must not engage in any improper activity or behavior
that might create or constitute a hazard to the employee or any
other person.
Building codes and specifications
106.06
Plans and specifications for new buildings must be in compliance
with all applicable national and provincial codes, municipal
bylaws and other requirements.
Strength of structures and equipment
106.07
(1)  Every railway must ensure that
(a) machinery and equipment are capable of safely performing
the functions for which they are used, and
(b) buildings and permanent and temporary structures are
capable of withstanding any stresses likely to be imposed upon
them.
(2)  Except as provided elsewhere in this regulation, the
safe working load of any equipment must be that specified by the
manufacturer.
(3)  The safe working load must be certified by a registered
professional engineer if
(a) the manufacturer's specifications or other acceptable
warranty cannot be produced,
(b) the equipment has been modified in a manner which will
change its safe working load,
(c) wear, corrosion, damage or signs of fatigue are found
which may reduce the safe working load,
(d) the equipment is used in a manner or for purposes other
than that for which it was originally designed and such use will
change the safe working load, or
(e) in the opinion of the minister the provision of such
certification is deemed to be necessary.
Maintenance of safe work conditions
106.08
The condition of all buildings, excavations, structures,
machinery, equipment, tools and places of employment must be
maintained so that employees will not be endangered.
Re-assembled equipment or structures
106.09
When any equipment or structure is dismantled in whole or in part
and subsequently re-assembled, it must not be used until
completely checked and found to be safe for operation or use.
Inspection of places of employment
106.10
(1)  Every railway must ensure that regular inspections are
made of all places of employment, including buildings, structures,
grounds, excavations, tools, equipment, machinery and work methods
and practices, and such inspections must be made at intervals that
will prevent the development of unsafe working conditions.
(2)  Machinery, tools and equipment must be inspected in
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations or as otherwise
specified by this regulation.
(3)  Special inspections must be made when required because
of malfunction or accident.
(4)  Inspections required by subsection (1) and special
inspections required by subsection (3) must, where feasible,
include the participation of members of the occupational safety
and health committee as required by section 103.05 (2) (d).
(5)  For the purpose of subsection (4),
(a) if there is no committee, the railway must designate a
management representative and the union must designate a
representative, and
(b) if there is no union, the railway must invite the
employees to designate an employee as their representative.
(6)  Unsafe or harmful conditions found in the course of an
inspection under this section must be remedied without delay.
Correction of unsafe conditions
106.11
If a person observes what appears to be an unsafe or harmful
condition or act, that person must report it as soon as possible
to a supervisor or to some other person exercising management
functions and the person receiving the report must investigate the
reported unsafe condition or act and must ensure that any
necessary corrective action is taken without delay.
Exposure to imminent danger
106.12
If emergency action is required to correct a condition which
constitutes an immediate threat to an employee, only those
qualified and properly instructed employees necessary to correct
the unsafe condition may be exposed to the hazard and every
possible effort must be made to control the hazard while this is
being done.
Provision and use of clothing and protective equipment
106.13
(1)  Every employee must be equipped with clothing suitable
for protection against the natural elements to which he or she may
be exposed and, if required by this regulation, with gloves,
safety headgear and safety footwear.
(2)  A railway must, if required by this regulation, equip
each employee, at no cost to the employee, with respiratory,
fall-arresting, buoyancy, eye and hearing protective devices, foot
guards and other specialized protective garments and equipment.
(3)  Every railway must ensure that all safeguards, safety
appliances and devices, including personal protective equipment
necessary for the protection of employees, are available and are
used by the employees.
(4)  Nothing in this section precludes or alters a future or
existing agreement or arrangement between an employee or employees
and a railway to the effect that the railway will be responsible
for the provision, either at no cost to the employee or at some
cost to the employee, of any or all of the items described in
subsection (1).
Circumvention of safeguards
106.14
A person must not intentionally remove, impair or render
ineffective any safeguard provided for the protection of
employees.
Authorized operation of machinery and equipment
106.15
(1)  Machinery and equipment must only be operated by
authorized persons.
(2)  A railway must not authorize a person to operate
machinery or equipment unless that person has been adequately
instructed and trained and has demonstrated an ability to safely
operate the machinery or equipment.
Manual lifting and carrying restrictions
106.16
If any material, article or object is manually lifted, carried or
moved, it must be lifted, carried or moved in a manner and with
such precautions and safeguards, including training, protective
clothing and mechanical aids, as to ensure that the process does
not endanger the safety and health of any employee.
Putting equipment into operation
106.17
Before any machinery or equipment is put into operation, the
person responsible for doing so must ensure that
(a) all safeguards and air contaminant controls required by
this regulation are in place and functioning, and
(b) no person will be endangered by putting the machinery or
equipment into operation.
Checking an employee's well-being
106.18
(1)  If an employee is working under conditions which present
a significant hazard of a disabling injury and the employee might
not be able to secure assistance in the event of such an injury or
other misfortune, a railway must provide a means of periodically
checking on the well-being of the employee.
(2)  The checks required under subsection (1) must be made at
such intervals and by such means as are appropriate to the nature,
hazard and circumstances of the work being performed.
(3)  The circumstances, intervals and means of carrying out
the checks required under this section must be determined in each
case by the railway in consultation with the occupational safety
and health committee or, if there is no committee, in consultation
with the employee's representative.
(4)  An inspector, on request, may assist in establishing a
practicable means of checking the well-being of employees.
Division 107 - Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System
Compliance
107.01
Every railway and every employee must comply with B.C. Reg.
277/88, the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System
Regulation (Railways), in respect of controlled products used,
stored and handled at a place of employment.
Division 300 - Levels of Lighting
General
300.01
(1)  The levels of lighting required by this Division must,
if reasonably practicable, be provided by a lighting system
installed by the railway.
(2)  If it is not reasonably practicable to comply with
subsection (1), the railway must provide portable lanterns that
give the required levels of lighting.
Measurement of levels of lighting
300.02
For the purposes of this Division, the level of lighting in an
area must be measured
(a) at the level at which the work is performed if the work
is performed at a level higher than the floor,
(b) at floor level if the source of lighting is at floor
level, and
(c) 1 m above the floor in every other case.
Minimum levels of lighting on rolling stock
300.03
The level of lighting in an area referred to in Column 1 of
Schedule 3.1 must not be less than the level set out opposite in
Column 2.
Minimum levels of lighting off rolling stock
300.04
The level of lighting in an area referred to in Column 1 of
Schedule 3.2 must not be less than the level set out opposite in
Column 2.
Emergency lighting
300.05
(1)  If the lighting system fails in an area through which an
employee passes while carrying out procedures referred to in
section 309.07 (2) (a), emergency lighting must be available for
immediate use in the area.
(2)  The emergency lighting referred to in subsection (1)
must
(a) operate automatically, if reasonably practicable, in the
event of a failure of the lighting system, and
(b) provide a level of lighting of 3 dalx (3 foot-candles).
Division 301 - Levels of Sound
Interpretation
301.01
In this Division
"sound level meter"
means an instrument for measuring levels of sound and impulse
sound that meet the standards set out in American National
Standards Institute Standard ANSI S1.4-1983, Specification for
Sound Level Meters and referred to in that Standard as Type 0, 1
and 2.
Levels of sound
301.02
(1)  Subject to subsections (2) and (3) and section 301.03,
the level of sound in a work area must be less than 87 dB.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3), if it is not reasonably
practicable for a railway to maintain the level of sound in the
work area at less than 87 dB, an employee must not be exposed in
any 24 hour period to
(a) a level of sound in Column 1 of Schedule 3.3 for a number
of hours that exceeds the number of hours set out opposite in
Column 2, or
(b) a number of different levels of sound referred to in
Column 1 of Schedule 3.3 if the sum of the following quotients
exceeds 1: the number of hours of exposure to each level of sound
in Column 1 divided by the maximum number of hours of exposure per
24 hour period set out opposite in Column 2.
(3)  If it is not reasonably practicable for a railway to
maintain the exposure of an employee to a level of sound at or
below the levels referred to in subsection (1) or (2), the railway
must
(a) make a report in writing to the chief inspecting engineer
setting out the reasons why the exposure cannot be so maintained,
and
(b) provide every employee entering the work area with a
hearing protector that
(i)  meets the standards set out in CSA Standard Z94.2-M1984,
Hearing Protectors, and
(ii)  reduces the level of sound reaching the employee's ears
to less than 87 dB.
Impulse level of sound
301.03
If the level of impulse sound in a work area exceeds 140 dB, the
railway must provide every employee entering the work area with a
hearing protector that
(a) meets the standards set out in CSA Standard Z94.2-M1984,
Hearing Protectors, and
(b) reduces the peak level of impulse sound reaching the
employee's ears to 140 dB or less.
Sound level measurement
301.04
The levels of sound referred to in section 301.02 must be measured
by using the slow exponential time averaging characteristic and
the A weighting characteristic of a sound level meter.
Impulse sound level measurement
301.05
The level of impulse sound referred to in section 301.03 must be
measured by using the impulse exponential time averaging
characteristic of a sound level meter.
Warning signs
301.06
If the level of sound in rolling stock that is a work area is 87
dB or more or the peak level of impulse sound exceeds 140 dB, the
railway must post signs in the rolling stock warning persons
entering the work area that there is a hazardous level of sound or
impulse sound in the rolling stock and, where applicable, stating
(a) the maximum number of hours of exposure as determined
under section 301.02 (2), and
(b) the requirement to wear a hearing protector.
Division 302 - Electrical Safety
Interpretation
302.01
In this Division:
"control device"
means a device that will safely disconnect electrical equipment
from its source of energy;
"electrical equipment"
means equipment for the generation, distribution or use of
electricity;
"guarded"
means, in relation to electrical equipment, equipment that is
(a) covered, shielded, enclosed or otherwise protected in a
manner that prevents injury to an employee who touches or goes
near the equipment, or
(b) located in a place inaccessible to employees.
Safety procedures
302.02
(1)  If work, other than the work referred to in subsection
(2), is performed on electrical equipment, the railway must submit
special procedures for acceptance by the chief inspecting
engineer.
(2)  If an employee is required to throw switches, change
light bulbs or fuses or perform other work that requires no
electrical training, the following procedures apply:
(a) if the electrical equipment is live or may become live,
an employee must not work on the equipment unless the railway has
instructed the employee in procedures that are safe for work on
live conductors;
(b) subject to paragraph (c), if an employee is working on or
near electrical equipment that is live or may become live, the
electrical equipment must be guarded;
(c) if it is not practicable for electrical equipment
referred to in paragraph (b) to be guarded, the railway must take
measures to protect the employee from injury by insulating the
equipment from the employee or insulating the employee from
ground.
Switches and control devices
302.03
(1)  Every control device must be so designed and located as
to permit quick and safe operation at all times.
(2)  The path of access to every electrical switch, control
device or meter must be free from obstruction.
(3)  If an electrical switch or other control device
controlling the supply of electrical energy to electrical
equipment is operated only by a person authorized to do so by the
railway, the switch or control device must be fitted with a
locking device that only the authorized person can activate.
Electrified railway lines
302.04
All activities and operations related to electrified railway lines
must be in accordance with specific company rules approved by the
minister.
Division 303 - Sanitation
Interpretation
303.01
In this Division:
"ARI"
means the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute of the
United States;
"food preparation area"
includes an area used for the storage of food.
General
303.02
(1)  Every railway must maintain on-board accommodation and
food preparation areas used by employees in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(2)  On-board accommodation and food preparation areas must
be used by employees in a manner that the accommodation and food
preparation areas remain in as clean and sanitary condition as is
possible.
Janitorial work
303.03
All janitorial work that may cause dusty or unsanitary conditions
must be carried out in a manner that will prevent the
contamination of the air by dust or other substances injurious to
health.
Construction of on-board accommodation and washrooms
303.04
Every on-board accommodation and washroom must be constructed and
maintained in a manner that prevents adverse health and safety
conditions.
On-board sanitation
303.05
(1)  If rolling stock has on-board accommodation, the food
preparation area must be separated from the sleeping quarters.
(2)  Every on-board accommodation must have
(a) garbage disposal facilities to prevent the accumulation
of garbage,
(b) potable water, heating, ventilation and sanitary sewage
systems, and
(c) a means of vermin control.
Garbage containers
303.06
Every garbage container that is used for solid or liquid waste in
a work area must be
(a) equipped with a tight fitting cover,
(b) constructed so that it can be easily cleaned and
maintained in a sanitary condition,
(c) leak-proof, and
(d) emptied at least once each day that it is used.
Vermin control
303.07
If vermin have entered any enclosed part of a work area, on-board
accommodation, washroom or food preparation area, the railway must
immediately take all steps necessary to eliminate the vermin and
prevent the re-entry of the vermin.
Storage of equipment prohibited
303.08
A person must not use on-board accommodation, a washroom or a food
preparation area for the purpose of storing equipment unless
(a) a storage closet fitted with a door is provided in the
on-board accommodation, washroom or food preparation area, or
(b) the equipment is secured in a manner that protects
employees from injury.
Temperature levels
303.09
Every on-board accommodation, washroom and food preparation area
must, where reasonably practicable, be maintained at a temperature
of not less than 18°C (65°F) and not more than 29°C (85°F), as
measured 1 m above the floor in the centre of the room or area.
Floors, partitions and walls
303.10
(1)  Every on-board accommodation, washroom and food
preparation area must be constructed so that the floors,
partitions and walls can be easily washed and maintained in a
sanitary condition.
(2)  The floor and the lower 150 mm (6 in.) of walls and
partitions that are in contact with the floor in a food
preparation area or washroom must be watertight and impervious to
moisture.
Provision for washrooms
303.11
(1)  Every railway must, if reasonably practicable, provide a
washroom on rolling stock other than rolling stock designed for
the transportation of freight and maintenance-of-way equipment.
(2)  If it is not reasonably practicable under subsection (1)
to provide a washroom on rolling stock, the railway must provide a
washroom that is readily accessible to employees and is off the
rolling stock or coupled to the rolling stock.
Washroom locking devices
303.12
Every washroom must be fitted on the inside with a locking device
that can be opened from the outside in an emergency.
Provision for washrooms for both sexes
303.13
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), if a washroom is provided
under section 303.11 and employees of both sexes are employed at
the same place of employment, a railway must provide a separate
washroom for employees of each sex.
(2)  The railway may provide only one washroom for employees
of both sexes if the washroom is completely enclosed with solid
material that is nontransparent from the outside.
(3)  If separate washrooms are provided for employees of each
sex, each washroom must be equipped with a door that is clearly
marked to indicate the sex of the employees for whom the washroom
is provided.
Types of toilets
303.14
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), the toilet provided in a
washroom must,
(a) in the case of a locomotive, be a self-contained chemical
flush type, and
(b) in the case of a caboose, be of a type and construction
that waste is not deposited on the track bed or on any part of the
caboose.
(2)  Outside flush or dryhopper type toilets that are
suitable for year round use may be used in a locomotive or caboose
if they were installed in that locomotive or caboose before May 1,
1969.
Washroom supplies
303.15
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), every washroom must be
provided with
(a) toilet paper on a holder or in a dispenser, and
(b) hand cleaning and drying supplies.
(2)  If washroom supplies are not provided as required by
subsection (1), the railway must provide toilet paper and hand
cleaning and drying supplies to each individual employee.
(3)  A non-combustible container must be provided in or
adjacent to every washroom for the disposal of hand cleaning and
drying supplies.
(4)  A covered container or an envelope that is impervious to
moisture must be provided for the disposal of sanitary napkins in
each washroom provided for the use of female employees.
Hot and cold running water
303.16
Every washroom must, if reasonably practicable, be provided with
hot and cold running water at each washbasin in the washroom.
Restrictions on hot water
303.17
If hot water is provided for personal washing, it must not
(a) exceed a temperature of 43°C (110°F) at the discharge
spout, and
(b) be heated by mixing water with steam.
Washroom cleaning agents
303.18
Every washroom that contains a washbasin must be provided with
soap, or another cleaning agent, in a dispenser at the washbasin.
Provision of potable water
303.19
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), every railway must provide
potable water for drinking, personal washing and food preparation
that meets the standards set out in the Guidelines for Canadian
Drinking Water Quality 1978, published under the authority of the
Minister of National Health and Welfare (Canada).
(2)  The railway is not required to provide potable water for
personal washing if waterless hand cleaning supplies are provided.
Transport of potable water
303.20
Sanitary portable water containers must be used if it is necessary
to transport water for drinking, personal washing or food
preparation.
Portable storage of drinking water
303.21
(1)  If a portable storage container for drinking water is
used, the container must
(a) be securely covered and closed,
(b) be used only for the purpose of storing potable water,
and
(c) not be stored in a washroom.
(2)  If the container under subsection (1) is not a single
use storage container, water must be drawn from it by
(a) a tap,
(b) a ladle used only for the purpose of drawing water from
the container, or
(c) any means that precludes the contamination of the water.
Provision for single use drinking cups
303.22
Except where drinking water is supplied by a drinking fountain or
a single use portable storage container, sanitary single use
drinking cups must be provided.
Use of ice
303.23
If ice is added to drinking water or used for the contact
refrigeration of foodstuffs, the ice must be
(a) made from potable water, and
(b) stored and handled in a manner that prevents
contamination.
Drinking fountains
303.24
If drinking water is supplied by a drinking fountain, the fountain
must meet the standards set out in ARI Standard 1010-82, Standard
for Drinking Fountains Self-Contained, Mechanically Refrigerated
Drinking Water Coolers.
Requirements for food handlers
303.25
(1)  Every food handler must be instructed and trained in
food handling practices that prevent the contamination of food.
(2)  A person who is suffering from a communicable illness
must not work as a food handler.
Foodservice sanitation code
303.26
If food is served in a place of employment, every railway must
adopt and implement Section G, except items 2 and 11, of the
Sanitation Code for Canada's Foodservice Industry, published by
the Canadian Restaurant and Foodservices Association, dated
September, 1984.
Refrigeration and freezing of food
303.27
(1)  Food that requires refrigeration to prevent it from
becoming hazardous to health must be maintained at a temperature
of 4°C (40°F) or lower.
(2)  If food stored by the railway for consumption by
employees requires freezing to prevent it from becoming hazardous
to health, the food must be maintained at a temperature of -11°C
(12°F), or lower.
Equipment and utensils used for food
303.28
All equipment and utensils that come into contact with food must
be
(a) designed to be easily cleaned,
(b) smooth and free from cracks, crevices, pitting or
unnecessary indentations, and
(c) cleaned to maintain their surfaces in a sanitary
condition.
Contamination of food
303.29
A person must not store, prepare or eat food
(a) in a place where a dangerous substance may contaminate
food, dishes or utensils,
(b) in a washroom, or
(c) in any other place where food is likely to be
contaminated.
Storage of food waste and garbage
303.30
(1)  Food waste and garbage must not be stored in a food
preparation area.
(2)  Food waste and garbage must be held in leak proof,
non-absorptive, easily cleaned containers with tight fitting
covers and must be kept in a separate enclosed area or container
until removed for disposal.
Ventilation
303.31
(1)  Subject to subsection (2) and if reasonably practicable,
the exhaust system for on-board accommodation, a washroom or a
food preparation area must
(a) be of a mechanical type, and
(b) not be connected with any other exhaust or air supply
system.
(2)  The exhaust system for on-board accommodation, a
washroom or a food preparation area may be connected to the
exhaust duct of another room at the exhaust fan inlet if it is
connected in such a manner that an exchange of air between those
rooms or areas cannot occur.
Clothing storage
303.32
Every railway must provide clothing storage facilities for the
storage of overcoats and other clothes not worn by employees while
they are working.
Sleeping quarters
303.33
If on-board accommodation includes sleeping quarters, every
employee must be provided with
(a) a separate bed or bunk that is not part of a unit that is
more than double tiered and is so constructed that it can be
easily cleaned and disinfected,
(b) a mattress, pillow, blanket and bed cover that are kept
in a clean and sanitary condition, and
(c) cleanly laundered sheets and a pillow case at least once
a week.
Division 304 - Hazardous Substances
Interpretation
304.01
In this Division
"lower explosive limit"
means the lower limit of flammability of a chemical agent or a
combination of chemical agents at ambient temperature and pressure
expressed,
(a) for a gas or vapour, as a percentage in air by volume,
and
(b) for dust, as a weight of dust per volume of air.
Application
304.02
Sections 304.03 to 304.05 do not apply to the transportation or
handling of dangerous goods as defined in the
Transport of Dangerous Goods Act
.
Hazard investigation
304.03
(1)  If there is a likelihood that the safety or health of an
employee in a work area is or may be endangered by exposure to a
hazardous substance, a railway must, without delay,
(a) appoint a qualified person to carry out an investigation,
and
(b) notify the safety and health committee, or the safety and
health representative if any, of the proposed investigation and of
the name of the qualified person appointed to carry out that
investigation.
(2)  The person appointed to carry out the investigation
referred to in subsection (1) must take into consideration the
following criteria:
(a) the chemical, biological and physical properties of the
hazardous substance;
(b) the routes of exposure of the hazardous substance;
(c) the effects on safety and health from exposure to the
hazardous substance;
(d) the state, concentration and quantity of the hazardous
substance handled;
(e) the manner in which the hazardous substance is handled;
(f) the control methods used to eliminate or reduce exposure
to the hazardous substance;
(g) the value, level or percentage of the hazardous substance
to which an employee is likely to be exposed;
(h) whether the value, level or percentage referred to in
paragraph (g) is likely to
(i)  exceed that prescribed in section 304.20 or 304.21 or
Division 301, or
(ii)  be less than that prescribed in Division 300.
Written report
304.04
On completion of the investigation referred to in section 304.03
(1) and after consultation with the safety and health committee or
the safety and health representative, the qualified person must
set out, in a signed written report, his or her
(a) observations respecting the criteria considered under
section 304.03 (2), and
(b) recommendations respecting the manner of compliance with
sections 304.06 to 304.23.
Filing of report
304.05
The report referred to in section 304.04 must be kept by the
railway for a period of 2 years after the date on which the
qualified person signed the report.
Substitution of substances
304.06
(1)  A hazardous substance must not be used for any purpose
in a work area if it is reasonably practicable to substitute for
the hazardous substance a substance that is not a hazardous
substance.
(2)  If a hazardous substance is required for any purpose in
a work area and an equivalent substance that is less hazardous is
available for that purpose, the equivalent substance must be
substituted for the hazardous substance if reasonably practicable.
Ventilation
304.07
Every ventilation system used to control the concentration of an
airborne hazardous substance must be designed, constructed and
installed so that
(a) the concentration of the airborne dangerous substance
does not exceed the values, levels and percentages prescribed in
sections 304.20 and 304.21 if the airborne hazardous substance is
a chemical agent, and
(b) the concentration of the airborne hazardous substance is
not hazardous to the safety or health of employees if the airborne
hazardous substance is not a chemical agent.
Storage, handling and use of hazardous substance
304.08
Every hazardous substance stored, handled or used in a work area
must be stored, handled or used in a manner whereby the hazard
related to that substance is reduced to a minimum.
Confinement of hazard
304.09
Subject to section 304.11, if a hazardous substance is stored,
handled or used in a work area, any hazard resulting from that
storage, handling or use must be confined to as small an area as
practicable.
Quantity of a hazardous substance
304.10
The quantity of a hazardous substance used or processed in a work
area must, to the extent that is practicable, be limited to the
quantity required for use or processing in the work area in one
work day.
Ignition of combination substance
304.11
If a hazardous substance is capable of combining with another
substance to form an ignitable combination and a hazard of
ignition of the combination by static electricity exists in a work
area, the railway must adopt and implement the standards set out
in the United States National Fire Prevention Association Inc.
publication NFPA 77-1983, Recommended Practice on Static
Electricity.
Containers
304.12
Every radioactive material used in a work area must, when not in
use, be packaged in accordance with the requirements of the
Transport Packaging of Radioactive Materials Regulations issued by
the Atomic Energy Control Board, Ottawa.
Labelling
304.13
Every container of a hazardous substance that is stored, handled
or used in a work area must be labelled, marked, or tagged in
compliance with B.C. Reg. 277/88, the Workplace Hazardous
Materials Information System Regulation (Railways), [WHMIS].
Material safety data sheets
304.14
Material safety data sheets pertaining to a hazardous substance
stored, handled or used in a work area must be made available in
compliance with B.C. Reg. 277/88, the Workplace Hazardous
Materials Information System Regulation (Railways), [WHMIS].
Transfer of hazardous substance
304.15
Every assembly of pipes, pipe fittings, valves, safety devices,
pumps, compressors and other fixed equipment that is used for
transferring a hazardous substance from one location to another
must be
(a) marked or tagged in compliance with B.C. Reg. 277/88, the
Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System Regulation
(Railways), [WHMIS] to identify the hazardous substance being
transferred,
(b) fitted with valves and other control and safety devices
to ensure its safe operation, and
(c) adequate for its intended purpose having regard to the
corrosiveness, pressure, temperature and other properties of the
hazardous substance being transferred.
Training of employees
304.16
If an employee is required to handle or be exposed to, or is
likely to handle or be exposed to, a hazardous substance, the
railway must instruct and train the employee in compliance with
B.C. Reg. 277/88, the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information
System Regulation (Railways), [WHMIS].
Instructions pertaining to an assembly of pipes
304.17
If an employee operates, maintains or repairs an assembly of pipes
referred to in section 304.15, the railway must
(a) bring to the attention of the employee each valve and
other control and safety device connected to the assembly of
pipes, and
(b) instruct and train the employee in the safe and proper
use of the assembly of pipes in compliance with B.C. Reg. 277/88,
the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System Regulation
(Railways), [WHMIS].
Written records
304.18
(1)  The railway must keep a written record of the employee
training program referred to in B.C. Reg. 277/88, the Workplace
Hazardous Materials Information System Regulation (Railways),
[WHMIS] and the record must be
(a) kept readily available for examination by the employee,
and
(b) kept for 2 years after the employee is no longer
(i)  required to handle or be exposed to the hazardous
substance, or likely to be required to handle or be exposed to the
hazardous substance, or
(ii)  required to operate, maintain or repair the assembly of
pipes.
(2)  The record referred to in subsection (1) must include
the name of the employee who was instructed and trained and the
date of the instruction and training.
Medical examinations
304.19
(1)  If the report referred to in section 304.04 contains a
recommendation for a medical examination, the railway may consult
a medical practitioner regarding that recommendation.
(2)  If the railway
(a) consults a medical practitioner in accordance with
subsection (1) and the medical practitioner confirms the
recommendation for a medical examination, or
(b) does not consult a medical practitioner in accordance
with subsection (1),
the railway must not permit an employee to work with the hazardous
substance in a work area until a medical practitioner acceptable
to the employee has examined the employee and declared the
employee fit for work with the hazardous substance.
(3)  If the railway consults a medical practitioner in
accordance with subsection (1), the railway must keep a copy of
the decision of the medical practitioner with the report referred
to in section 304.04.
(4)  The cost of the medical examination referred to in
subsection (2) must be paid by the railway.
Control of hazards
304.20
(1)  An employee must not be exposed to a concentration of
(a) an airborne chemical agent in excess of the value for
that chemical agent adopted by the American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists in its publication entitled
Threshold Limit Values and Biological Exposure Indices for
1986-1987, or
(b) an airborne hazardous substance, other than a chemical
agent, that is hazardous to the safety or health of the employee.
(2)  If there is a possibility that an employee may be
exposed to a concentration of an airborne chemical agent in excess
of the value referred to in subsection (1) (a), the air must be
sampled by a qualified person and the concentration of the
chemical agent determined by a test in accordance with
(a) the standards set out by the American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists in its publication entitled
Manual of Analytical Methods Recommended for Sampling and Analysis
of Atmospheric Contaminants, 1958,
(b) the standards set out by the United States National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health in the NIOSH Manual
of Analytical Methods, Third Edition, Volumes 1 and 2, February,
1984, or
(c) a method set out in the United States Federal Register,
Volume 40, No. 33, February , 1975, as amended by Volume 41, No.
53, March 17, 1976.
(3)  A record of each test made under subsection (2) must be
kept by the railway for 3 years after the date of the test.
(4)  The record referred to in subsection (3) must include
(a) the date, time and location of the test,
(b) the chemical agent for which the test was made,
(c) the sampling and testing method used,
(d) the result obtained, and
(e) the name and occupation of the qualified person who made
the test.
Concentration of airborne chemical agents
304.21
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), the concentration of an
airborne chemical agent or combination of airborne chemical agents
in a work area must be less than 50% of the lower explosive limit
of the chemical agent or combination of chemical agents.
(2)  Where a source of ignition could ignite the
concentration of an airborne chemical agent or combination of
airborne chemical agents in a work area, that concentration must
not exceed 10% of the lower explosive limit of the chemical agent
or combination of chemical agents.
Explosive signalling devices
304.22
A person must not handle or use an explosive signalling device
unless that person is a qualified person.
Radiation emitting devices
304.23
(1)  If a radar device or a telecommunications transmitter
capable of producing and emitting energy in excess of 5W is used
in a work area, the railway must make a written report to the
Radiation Protection Bureau of the Department of National Health
and Welfare (Canada), setting out a description of the device or
the transmitter.
(2)  If a radio frequency device or a microwave device in the
frequency range 10 MHz-300 GHz is used in a work area, the railway
must adopt and implement Safety Code 6, the recommended safety
procedures for the installation and use of radio frequency and
microwave devices in the frequency range 10 MHz-300 GHz, published
by the Radiation Protection Bureau of the Department of National
Health and Welfare (Canada), February, 1979.
Division 305 - Safety Materials, Equipment, Devices and Clothing
Interpretation
305.01
In this Division:
"oxygen deficient atmosphere"
means an atmosphere in which there is less than 18% by volume of
oxygen at a pressure of one atmosphere or in which the partial
pressure of oxygen is less than 135 mm Hg;
"protection equipment"
means safety materials, equipment, devices and clothing.
General
305.02
A person granted access to a work area who is exposed to a safety
or health hazard must use the protection equipment prescribed by
this Division if
(a) it is not reasonably practicable to eliminate the hazard
in the work area or to control it within safe limits, and
(b) the use of protection equipment could prevent or reduce
injury from the hazard.
Design of protection equipment
305.03
All protection equipment must
(a) be designed to protect a person from the hazard for which
it is provided, and
(b) not in itself create a hazard.
Maintenance of protection equipment
305.04
Every railway must provide protection equipment that is
(a) maintained, inspected and tested by a qualified person,
and
(b) maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by a
qualified person if necessary to prevent a health hazard.
Protective headwear
305.05
If there is any hazard of head injury in a work area, the railway
must provide protective headwear that meets the standards set out
in CSA Standard Z94.1-Ml977, Industrial Protective Headwear,
April, 1977, as amended to September, 1982.
Protective footwear
305.06
(1)  If there is any hazard of a foot injury or electric
shock through footwear in a work area, protective footwear that
meets the standard set out in CSA Standard Z195-Ml984, Protective
Footwear, March, 1984, must be used.
(2)  If there is any hazard of slipping in a work area,
non-slip footwear must be used.
Eye and face protection
305.07
If there is any hazard of injury to the eyes, face, ears or front
of the neck of in a work area, the railway must provide eye or
face protectors that meet the standards set out in CSA Standard
Z94.3-Ml982, Industrial Eye and Face Protectors, May, 1982.
Respiratory protection
305.08
(1)  If there is any hazard of an airborne dangerous
substance or an oxygen deficient atmosphere in a work area, the
railway must provide a respiratory protective device that is
listed in the NIOSH Certified Equipment List as of October 1, 1984
and dated February, 1985, published by the United States National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
(2)  The respiratory protective device referred to in
subsection (1) must be selected, fitted, cared for, used and
maintained in accordance with the standards set out in CSA
Standards Z94.4-M1982, Selection, Care and Use of Respirators,
May, 1982, as amended to September, 1984, but excluding clauses
6.1.5, 10.3.3.1.2 and 10.3.3.4.2 (c).
(3)  If air is provided for the purpose of the respiratory
protective device referred to in subsection (1),
(a) the air must meet the standards set out in clauses 5.5.2
to 5.5.11 of CSA Standard CAN3-Z180.1-M85, Compressed Breathing
Air and Systems, December, 1985, and
(b) the system that supplies air must be constructed, tested,
operated and maintained in accordance with the CSA Standard
referred to in paragraph (a).
Defective breathing cylinders
305.09
(1)  If a self-contained breathing apparatus cylinder has a
dent more than 1.5 mm deep and less than 50 mm in major diameter
or shows evidence of deep pitting, cracks, splits, gouges or any
other defect with a sharp bottom, the cylinder must be removed
from service until it has been shown to be safe for use by a
hydrostatic test.
(2)  The hydrostatic test performed under subsection (1) must
be performed in accordance with the procedures set out in
subsection 73.34 (e) of the Regulations for the Transportation of
Dangerous Commodities by Rail, published under the authority of
the Canadian Transport Commission and adopted under B.C. Reg.
85/89, the Storage, Handling and Transportation of Dangerous Goods
by Railway.
Skin protection
305.10
If there is any hazard of injury or disease through the skin in a
work area, the railway must provide to each person granted access
to the work area
(a) a shield or screen,
(b) a cream to protect the skin, or
(c) an appropriate body covering.
Loose clothing
305.11
Loose fitting clothing, long hair, dangling accessories, jewellery
or other similar items that are likely to be hazardous to the
health or safety of an employee in a work area must not be worn
unless they are tied, covered or otherwise secured so as to
prevent the hazard.
Protection equipment records
305.12
(1)  A record of all protection equipment provided by the
railway must be kept for a period of 2 years after the equipment
ceases to be used.
(2)  The record referred to in subsection (1) must contain
(a) a description of the equipment and the date of its
acquisition by the railway,
(b) the date and result of each inspection and test of the
equipment,
(c) the date and nature of any maintenance work performed on
the equipment since its acquisition by the railway, and
(d) the name of the person who performed the inspection, test
or maintenance of the equipment.
Instructions and training
305.13
(1)  Every person granted access to a work area where
protection equipment is required must be instructed by the railway
in the use of the equipment.
(2)  Every employee who uses protective equipment must be
instructed and trained in the use, operation and maintenance of
the equipment.
(3)  The instructions referred to in subsection (2) must be
(a) set out in writing, and
(b) readily available for examination by each person granted
access to the work area.
Reporting of defects in protective equipment
305.14
If an employee finds any defect in protective equipment that may
render it unsafe for use, the employee must report the defect to
the railway as soon as possible.
Tagging of defective protective equipment
305.15
The railway must mark or tag as unsafe and remove from service any
protective equipment that has a defect which may render it unsafe
for use.
Division 306 - Hand Tools and Materials Handling
Interpretation
306.01
In this Division
"hand tool"
means a tool designed to be held in the hand and operated by
manual power.
Hand tools
306.02
If an employee finds any defect in a hand tool that may render it
unsafe for use, the employee must report the defect to the railway
as soon as possible.
Defective hand tools
306.03
The railway must mark or tag as unsafe and remove from service any
hand tool that has a defect that may render it unsafe for use by
any employee.
Manual handling of materials
306.04
If the manual handling of materials, goods or things may be
hazardous to the health or safety of an employee because of the
weight, size, shape, toxicity or other characteristic of the
materials, goods or things, the railway must issue instructions
that the materials, goods or things must not, if reasonably
practicable, be handled manually.
Employee training
306.05
If an employee is required to manually lift or carry loads in
excess of 10 kg. (22 lbs.), the railway must issue instructions
and train the employee
(a) in a safe method of lifting and carrying the loads, and
(b) in a work procedure appropriate to the conditions of the
work area and the employee's physical condition.
Written instructions
306.06
If an employee is required to manually lift or carry loads in
excess of 45 kg. (100 lbs.), the instructions given under section
306.05 must be
(a) set out in writing,
(b) readily available to the employee to whom they apply, and
(c) kept by the railway for 2 years after the instructions
cease to apply.
Hand carts
306.07
If a hand cart is provided for use in a work area, it must be
(a) capable of carrying the intended load without tipping,
and
(b) fitted with a braking mechanism to prevent uncontrolled
movement if the hand cart is used for serving food or beverages.
Division 307 - Design and Construction of Rolling Stock
General
307.01
Rolling stock must, to the extent that is reasonably practicable,
be designed and constructed so that a failure of any part of the
rolling stock will not result in loss of control of the rolling
stock or create a hazardous condition.
Fuel tanks
307.02
If a fuel tank, compressed gas cylinder or similar container
contains a dangerous substance and is mounted on rolling stock, it
must be
(a) located or protected so that under all conditions it is
not hazardous to the health or safety of an employee who is
required to operate or ride on the rolling stock, and
(b) connected to fuel overflow and vent pipes that are
located so that fuel spills and vapours
(i)  cannot be ignited by hot exhaust pipes or other hot or
sparking parts, and
(ii)  are not hazardous to the health or safety of an
employee who is required to operate or ride on the rolling stock.
Protection from the elements
307.03
(1)  All rolling stock occupied by an operator must be fitted
with a roof or other structure that protects the operator from
exposure to any weather condition that is likely to be hazardous
to the operator's health or safety.
(2)  If heat produced by self-propelled rolling stock is
capable of raising the temperature in the operator's compartment
or position to 29°C (85°F) or higher, the compartment or position
must be protected from the heat by an insulated barrier.
Vibration
307.04
All self-propelled rolling stock must be designed and constructed
so that the operator will not be injured or the operator's control
of the rolling stock will not be impaired by any vibration,
jolting or uneven movement of the rolling stock.
Controls
307.05
The arrangement and design of dial displays and controls and
general layout and design of the operator's compartment or
position on all self-propelled rolling stock must not hinder or
prevent the operator from operating the rolling stock.
Control systems
307.06
All self-propelled rolling stock must be fitted with braking and
other control systems that
(a) are capable of safely controlling and stopping the
movement of the rolling stock or any accessory equipment that is
on or forms a part of the rolling stock, and
(b) respond reliably and quickly to moderate effort on the
part of the operator.
Electric rolling stock
307.07
Self-propelled rolling stock that is electrically powered must be
designed and constructed so that the operator and all other
employees are protected from electrical shock or injury by means
of protective guards, screens or panels secured by bolts, screws
or other equally reliable fasteners.
Automatic rolling stock
307.08
Rolling stock that is controlled or operated by a remote or
automatic system must be prevented from making physical contact
with an employee by the provision of an emergency stop system.
Warning device
307.09
Self-propelled rolling stock used for transporting passengers and
locomotives operated in an area occupied by employees must be
fitted with a horn or other audible warning device that emits a
distinctive sound that can be heard clearly above the noise of the
rolling stock or the locomotive and any ambient noise.
Inspection, testing and maintenance
307.10
(1)  Before a class of rolling stock is operated for the
first time, the railway must set out in writing instructions for
the inspection, testing and maintenance of that class of rolling
stock.
(2)  The instructions referred to in subsection (1) must
specify the nature and frequency of inspections, tests and
maintenance.
Qualifications and reports
307.11
(1)  Every inspection, test and maintenance of rolling stock
must be performed by a qualified person.
(2)  The qualified person referred to in subsection (1) must
(a) comply with the instructions referred to in section
307.10 (1), and
(b) make and sign a report of any inspection, test or
maintenance work performed by the qualified person.
(3)  The report referred to in subsection (2) (b) must
(a) include the date of the inspection, test or maintenance
work performed by the qualified person,
(b) identify the rolling stock that was inspected, tested or
maintained, and
(c) set out the safety observations of the qualified person
who inspected, tested or maintained the rolling stock.
(4)  The railway must keep a copy of
(a) the instructions referred to in section 307.10 (1) for
one year after the instructions are set out in writing, and
(b) the report referred to in subsection (2) (b) for one year
after the report is signed.
Operator instruction and training
307.12
(1)  Every operator of self-propelled rolling stock must be
instructed and trained by the railway in the procedures to be
followed for
(a) the safe and proper use of the rolling stock, and
(b) the fueling, if applicable, of the rolling stock.
(2)  The railway must keep a record of any instruction and
training referred to in subsection (1) for as long as the operator
remains in the employ of the railway.
Operation of rolling stock
307.13
The railway must not allow or require an employee to operate
self-propelled rolling stock unless the employee is capable of
operating the rolling stock safely.
Repairs to rolling stock
307.14
Any repair to or modification or replacement of any part of the
rolling stock must not decrease the safety of the rolling stock or
any part of it.
Transporting and positioning of employees
307.15
Rolling stock must not be used for transporting or positioning an
employee unless the rolling stock is designed for that purpose.
Employee seating
307.16
If seating is provided for employees on rolling stock, it must be
securely installed and, if reasonably practicable, upholstered
with a material that breathes.
Housekeeping
307.17
The floor and the cab and other occupied parts of rolling stock
must, insofar as is reasonably practicable, be kept free of any
grease, oil, ice, materials, tools or equipment that may cause an
employee to slip or trip.
Fueling of rolling stock
307.18
If rolling stock is fueled in a work area, the fueling must be
done in a place where the vapours from the fuel are readily
dissipated, all in accordance with section 307.12 (1) (b).
Tools
307.19
If tools, tool boxes or spare parts are carried on rolling stock,
they must be securely stored.
Storage restrictions
307.20
(1)  All materials, goods and things must be stored and
placed in rolling stock in such a manner that the maximum safe
load carrying capacity of the floor of the rolling stock or other
supporting structures is not exceeded.
(2)  Materials, goods or things must not be stored or placed
in rolling stock in a manner that may
(a) reduce the distribution of light,
(b) obstruct or encroach on corridors or exits,
(c) impede the safe operation of the rolling stock,
(d) obstruct the ready access to or the use and operation of
fire protection equipment,
(e) interfere with the operation of fixed fire protection
equipment, or
(f) be hazardous to the health or safety of any employee.
Requirement for machine guards
307.21
(1)  Every machine on rolling stock that has exposed parts
that are moving, rotating, electrically charged or hot, or that
processes, transports or handles material that constitutes a
hazard to an employee, must be equipped with a machine guard that
(a) prevents the employee or any part of the employee's body
from coming into contact with the parts or material,
(b) prevents access by the employee to the exposed parts or
the hazardous material during the operation of the machine, or
(c) makes the machine inoperative if the employee or any part
of the employee's clothing is in or near a part of the machine
that is likely to cause injury.
(2)  To the extent that it is reasonably practicable, the
machine guard referred to in subsection (1) must not be removable.
(3)  The machine guard must be constructed, installed and
maintained so that it meets the requirements of subsection (1).
Operation of machines with guards
307.22
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), a person must not use or
operate a machine on rolling stock that is equipped with a machine
guard unless the machine guard is in its proper position.
(2)  The machine may be operated when the machine guard is
not in its proper position in order to permit the repair of the
machine or the removal of an injured person from the machine.
Division 308 - First Aid
Interpretation
308.01
In this Division:
"isolated work area"
means a work area that, under normal travel conditions using the
fastest available means of transportation, is more than 2 hours
travel time from a hospital or medical facility;
"medical facility"
means a medical clinic or the office of a medical practitioner.
General
308.02
(1)  Every railway must establish written instructions that
provide for the prompt rendering of first aid to an employee for
an injury or occupational illness.
(2)  The railway must keep a copy of the instructions
referred to in subsection (1) readily available for examination by
employees.
Provision for first aid
308.03
Every work area in which 2 or more employees are working must have
at least one employee who is
(a) instructed and trained to provide artificial respiration,
control a hemorrhage and render other life saving first aid as may
be required by the nature of the work done in the work area, and
(b) readily available and accessible to provide first aid to
employees during working hours.
First aid supplies and equipment
308.04
(1)  Every railway must provide and maintain in each work
area the first aid supplies and equipment set out in Schedule 3.4.
(2)  First aid supplies and equipment must be
(a) located at or near the work area,
(b) available and accessible during all working hours,
(c) inspected regularly and maintained in a clean, dry and
serviceable condition, and
(d) clearly identified by a conspicuous sign.
Emergency transportation
308.05
(1)  If an employee requires emergency transportation to a
hospital, medical facility or the employee's residence because of
an injury or occupational illness occurring in the course of his
employment, the railway must provide the employee with a suitable
means of transportation and first aid during the transportation.
(2)  If an employee is employed at an isolated work area and
emergency transportation for that employee is required, the
railway must maintain effective communications between the
isolated work area and the emergency transportation.
First aid records
308.06
(1)  If first aid is rendered in accordance with this
Division, the employee who renders the first aid must
(a) enter in a first aid record
(i)  the date and time of the reporting of the injury or
occupational illness,
(ii)  the full name of the injured or ill employee,
(iii)  the date, time and location of the occurrence of the
injury or occupational illness,
(iv)  a brief description of the injury or occupational
illness,
(v)  a brief description of the first aid rendered, and
(vi)  a brief description of arrangements made for the
treatment or transportation of the injured or ill employee, and
(b) sign the first aid record below the information required
by paragraph (a).
(2)  The railway must keep the first aid record containing
information entered in accordance with subsection (1) for 2 years
after the date of that entry.
Division 309 - Safe Occupancy of the Workplace
Interpretation
309.01
In this Division
"ULC List"
means the Underwriters' Laboratories of Canada publication
entitled List of Equipment and Materials, Volume 1, July, 1985,
and the supplement thereto dated July, 1986.
Provision for fire extinguishers
309.02
(1)  Every railway must equip rolling stock, other than
rolling stock that is used for transporting freight, with at least
one portable fire extinguisher.
(2)  The portable fire extinguisher referred to in subsection
(1) must,
(a) in the case of a locomotive, be a multi-purpose dry
chemical portable fire extinguisher that has a capacity of not
less than 5 kg (11 lb.) or be a portable fire extinguisher that
has an equivalent classification as listed in the ULC List,
(b) in the case of a caboose, be a multi-purpose dry chemical
portable fire extinguisher that has a capacity of not less than 1
kg (2.2 lb) or be a portable fire extinguisher that has an
equivalent classification as listed in the ULC List,
(c) in the case of rolling stock used to transport employees,
be a portable fire extinguisher with a classification of not less
than 1-B, C or 1-A rating as listed in the ULC List, and
(d) in the case of maintenance-of-way equipment used to
transport or handle combustible or flammable substances, be a
portable fire extinguisher that has a classification of not less
than 5-B rating as listed in the ULC List.
Requirements of fire extinguishers
309.03
Every portable fire extinguisher referred to in section 309.02
must
(a) be installed, inspected, used, maintained and tested in
accordance with the standards set out in the National Fire
Protection Association Standard, Standard for Portable Fire
Extinguishers, NFPA 10-1984, 1984,
(b) be of a type that has been examined, tested and
classified by the Underwriters' Laboratories of Canada,
(c) bear the label of the Underwriters' Laboratories of
Canada, and
(d) be readily available for use by placing it in a
convenient and accessible location.
Instructions
309.04
Instructions for the operation of portable fire extinguishers must
be posted in a conspicuous place in close proximity to the fire
extinguisher.
Maintenance and repair
309.05
Fire extinguishers must be maintained and repaired by a qualified
person.
Fire extinguisher records
309.06
A record of each inspection of a portable fire extinguisher
carried out under section 309.03 (a) must be
(a) dated and signed by the person who made the inspection,
and
(b) kept by the railway for 2 years after the inspection is
made.
Preparation of emergency procedures
309.07
(1)  Every railway must, after consultation with the health
and safety committee or the health and safety representative,
prepare emergency procedures to be implemented in the following
circumstances:
(a) where any person commits or threatens to commit an act
that is likely to be hazardous to the safety of the railway or to
the health and safety of any of its employees;
(b) where there is a possibility of or in the event of an
accumulation, spill or leak of a dangerous substance in a work
area controlled by the railway;
(c) in the event of an accident involving a train;
(d) in the event of the failure of the lighting system of a
train.
(2)  The emergency procedures referred to in subsection (1)
must contain
(a) a full description of the procedures to be followed,
including the duties of employees, and
(b) the location of the emergency equipment provided by the
railway.
Moving and coupling
309.08
If there is an accumulation, spill or leak of a dangerous
substance from rolling stock, a person must not move the rolling
stock or couple any other rolling stock to it unless the person is
a qualified person.
Instructions and training
309.09
Every employee must be instructed and trained in
(a) the procedures to be followed by the employee in the
event of an emergency, and
(b) the location, use and operation of fire extinguishers and
emergency equipment provided by the railway.
Schedule 3.1
Levels of Lighting in Cabooses, Locomotives
and Maintenance-of-way Equipment
(section 300.03)
Item
Column 1
Area
Column 2
Level in dalx
(foot-candles)
1
Work surfaces while being used by employees to read or write
operating orders, time tables or other operating documents.
22
(20)
2
Work surfaces of equipment while being repaired or maintained.
22
(20)
3
Corridors, passageways, toilet rooms and on board
accommodations while being used by employees.
3
(3)
4
Areas where meters and gauges are located, other than those
that are self illuminated.
3
(3)
Schedule 3.2
Levels of Lighting off Rolling Stock
(section 300.04)
Item
Column 1
Area
Column 2
Level in dalx
(foot-candles)
1
Areas where employees are engaged in the flagging, switching
and marshalling of rolling stock.
5
(5)
Schedule 3.3
Maximum Exposure to Levels of Sound
(section 301.02)
Item
Column 1
Levels of Sound in dB
Column 2
Max. Number of hours exposure
per Employee per 24 hour period
1
87 or more, but less than 90
8
2
90 or more, but less than 92
6
3
92 or more, but less than 95
4
4
95 or more, but less than 97
3
5
97 or more, but less than 100
2
6
100 or more, but less than 102
1.5
7
102 or more, but less than 105
1
8
105 or more, but less than 110
0.5
9
110 or more, but less than 115
0.25
10
115 or more
0
Schedule 3.4
First Aid Supplies and Equipment
(section 308.04)
Item
Column 1
Supplies and Equipment
Column 2
Quantity
1
Antiseptic - wound solution, 60 ml (2 fl. oz.) or antiseptic
swabs (10 pack)
1
2
Applicator - disposable (10 pack), (not needed if antiseptic
swabs used)
1
3
Bag - disposable, emesis
1
4
Bandage - adhesive strips (12 pack)
1
5
Bandage - gauze 2.5 cm x 4.5 m (1 in. x 15 ft.), (not needed
if ties attached to dressing)
2
6
Bandage - triangular, 100 cm (40 in.) folded and 2 pins
2
7
Blanket - emergency pocket size or conventional type
1
8
Record - first aid (see section 308.05)
1
9
Container - first aid supplies
1
10
Dressing - compress, sterile 7.5 cm x 7.5 cm approx.
(3 in. x 3 in. approx.)
4
11
Dressing - compress, sterile 7.5 cm x 12 cm approx.
(3 in. x 5 in. approx.)
2
12
Manual - first aid - current edition
1
13
Pad with shield or tape for eye
1
14
Pencil
1
15
Pins - safety, 1 card
1
16
Scissors
1
17
Stretcher
1
18
Tape - adhesive, surgical 2.5 cm x 4.5 m (1 in. x 15 ft.),
(not needed if ties attached to dressing)
1
19
Tweezers
1
1.
replaced by B.C. Reg. 296/97, the Occupational Health and
Safety Regulation
Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 168/69.
[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 271]
