"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Correction Act; Prisons and Reformatories Act (Canada)
Correctional Centre Rules and Regulations
B.C. Reg. 284/78
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 58/2005, effective April 18,
2005.
B.C. Reg. 284/78
O.C. 1843/78
Filed July 7, 1978
effective August 31, 1978
Correction Act; Prisons and Reformatories Act (Canada)
Correctional Centre Rules and Regulations
Interpretation
1
In these regulations:
"Act"
means the
Correction Act
;
"branch"
means Corrections Branch;
"chaplain"
means a chaplain employed or working under contract in a
correctional centre;
"contraband"
means a drug or weapon or any other object that may threaten the
management, operation, discipline or security of a correctional
centre;
"director"
means the person in charge of a corrections centre and includes an
officer authorized by the director to act in place of the
director;
"Director of Inspection and Standards"
means the Director of the Inspection and Standards Division
established under the Act;
"district director"
means the director of all correctional services within a district
of the Province;
"disturbance"
means an incident that interferes with the management, operation,
discipline or security of a correction centre;
"drug"
means a narcotic under the
Narcotic Control Act
(Canada) or a controlled drug included in Schedule G or a
restricted drug included in Schedule H of the
Food and Drugs Act
(Canada);
"medical officer"
means a person who, being a medical practitioner, is employed or
working under contract as a medical officer for a correctional
centre;
"officer"
means an employee in the branch or a person working for the branch
under contract;
"Ombudsman"
means the Ombudsman appointed under the
Ombudsman Act
and includes a person to whom the Ombudsman has delegated any of
his powers or duties pursuant to section 30 of that Act;
"possession"
means possession as defined by the
Criminal Code
(Canada);
"privilege"
means an entitlement, advantage or immunity granted to an inmate
by the director but does not include a right of an inmate under an
enactment of the Province or of Canada;
"privileged correspondence"
means correspondence between
(a) an inmate and a member of Parliament, a member of the
Legislative Assembly, the Ombudsman, the commissioner, a regional
director, a district director, the Director of Inspection and
Standards, a chaplain or the inmate's barrister and solicitor, and
(b) where an inmate is detained pursuant to the
Immigration Act
(Canada), the inmate and an immigration officer as defined in that
Act;
"regional director"
means the director of all correctional services within a region of
the Province;
"rule"
means a rule made under section 3;
"segregation cell"
means, at a correctional centre, a cell that is located and
designed to isolate an inmate, while housed in it, from contact
with other inmates;
"unit"
means a section of a correctional centre.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 1.]
Director's responsibilities
2
A director of a correctional centre is responsible, through the
appropriate district director and regional director, to the
commissioner for the management, operation, discipline, security
and program of that correctional centre.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 2.]
Maintenance
3
(1)  A director shall establish and maintain, in a form
satisfactory to the commissioner,
(a) a chart illustrating the administrative structure,
(b) records concerning each inmate at his correctional
centre, and
(c) rules for the orderly operation of the correctional
centre pursuant to the responsibilities under section 2 of these
regulations.
(2)  On request by the commissioner, a director shall prepare
and forward to him a report on any matter concerning an inmate or
the correctional centre.
Admission to or release from a correctional centre
4
No officer shall admit a person to custody at the correctional
centre or surrender the custody of an inmate at the correctional
centre except in accordance with due process of law.
Management of inmates who are not in custody as a result of a
conviction for a criminal offence
5
An inmate awaiting trial or a person in custody as a result of
civil proceedings shall,
(a) where appropriate facilities permit, be housed separately
from inmates in custody as a result of a conviction for a criminal
offence or a Provincial summary conviction offence,
(b) not be employed in the correctional centre except with
his consent,
(c) be afforded so far as practicable such reasonable
facilities, including the use of a telephone, to enable him to
obtain legal advice or bail, conduct correspondence and prepare
notes for his defence, and
(d) have a daily exercise period of at least one hour, in the
out of doors where weather and security considerations permit.
Parole Board
6
(1)  The Chairman, or a member or employee of the Board of
Parole for the Province of British Columbia,
(a) may interview an inmate, and
(b) shall be given access to all records respecting an
inmate,
whose release on parole they have jurisdiction to consider.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), medical records
concerning an inmate shall only be made available where the senior
medical officer gives his approval in writing.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 3.]
Duties of an officer
7
(1)  An officer is responsible to the director for those
aspects of the management, operation, discipline, security and
program of the correctional centre that the director assigns to
the officer.
(2)  Notwithstanding the duties and responsibilities assigned
to an officer by the director, the director may, from time to
time, assign an officer to such other duties and responsibilities
as he deems necessary when in the opinion of the director
circumstances exist which demand such action.
Disclosure of information
8
A person who is or has been an officer shall not disclose
information the person learns in the course of his employment at a
correctional centre, except as required in the performance of his
duties, as authorized by the director or as required by due
process of law.
Money transactions by officers
9
Except as allowed by provisions for the management of the
correctional centre, no officer shall conduct a money or business
transaction with, or on behalf of, an inmate.
Uniforms of officers
10
An officer shall wear a uniform while on duty of such type and at
such times as may be specified by the commissioner.
Physical restraint
11
(1)  A reasonable degree and means of physical restraint may
be used either within or without a cell by an officer
(a) to prevent an inmate from injuring himself or others,
(b) where transporting inmates, or
(c) to prevent an inmate from attempting to escape.
(2)  Where an officer uses a device, other than handcuffs or
leg irons, to restrain an inmate, the director shall make a
written report to
(a) the district director,
(b) the regional director, and
(c) the medical officer.
(3)  An inmate shall not be physically restrained by means of
a device
(a) for a period longer than is necessary for the reasons
specified in subsection (1), or
(b) for more than 24 hours or a longer period specified in
writing, with reasons stated, by the regional director of
corrections to the director.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 4.]
Duty of an officer on illness, injury or death of inmate
12
Where an officer on duty in a unit
(a) suspects that an inmate in the unit has a serious
physical or mental illness or an injury, or
(b) discovers that an inmate in the unit is dead, the officer
shall advise the officer in charge of the unit and the medical
officer as soon as reasonably possible.
Religious services
13
(1)  The chaplain for a correctional centre shall develop and
maintain a program of religious observance and counselling in
order that inmates who wish to take part in religious services may
do so.
(2)  No inmate shall be required to participate in a
religious service against his will.
(3)  On request of an inmate the director may, in
consultation with a chaplain, authorize a minister, priest, rabbi
or similar religious representative to visit the inmate.
(4)  Requests by an inmate to see a chaplain shall be
communicated to a chaplain as soon as practical and, on receipt of
a request, a chaplain shall, as soon as practical, arrange for the
inmate to be visited.
(5)  A chaplain shall have full access to any part of a
correctional centre at any time in the performance of his duties.
Officer charged with criminal offence
14
Where an officer is charged with a criminal offence, the officer
shall forthwith advise the director of the charge and the location
where the matter is scheduled to be heard.
Compulsory retirement
15
(1)  Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the compulsory
retirement age for a person holding appointment under the Act and
employed in a correctional centre is 60 years.
(2)  Subject to subsection (3), where the minister on the
recommendation of the commissioner specifies in writing on the
grounds of public interest that the compulsory retirement age for
a person holding appointment under the Act and employed in a
correctional centre is specified age of 55 years or more, but less
than 60 years, the compulsory retirement age for that person is as
specified by the minister.
(3)  Where the minister on the recommendation of the
commissioner specifies in writing on the grounds of public
interest that a person should serve beyond his compulsory
retirement age under this section, the person may be employed to
age 65 or a lesser age as specified by the minister.
Officers to know the rules and regulations
16
(1)  A director shall provide each officer under his
direction with a copy of these regulations.
(2)  An officer shall make himself familiar with the rules
and regulations.
(3)  An officer shall identify himself, using his
identification card, upon the request of any person during the
performance of his duties.
Times of admission to a correctional centre
17
An inmate shall be admitted to a correctional centre between the
hours of 0800 and 1600 Monday through Saturday, excepting
holidays, and at such other times as authorized by the director.
Contraband objects
18
(1)  No person shall bring into or take from or assist in
bringing into or taking from a correctional centre any contraband.
(2)  A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable to a fine of not more than $2 000 or to
imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or to both.
(3)  Where an officer has reason to believe that a person has
committed, may be about to commit or is committing an offence
under subsection (1), an officer of the same gender as the person
may search the person or possessions of the person.
[en. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 5.]
Search of inmate
19
(1)  On admission of an inmate to a correctional centre the
person of the inmate and his possessions shall be searched by an
officer of the same gender as the inmate.
(2)  Once an inmate has been admitted to a correctional
centre an officer shall only conduct such further searches where
(a) the director so authorizes, or
(b) an officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe
that the inmate is in possession of any contraband, in which case
the officer shall search the inmate and provide a written report
to the director within 12 hours.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 6.]
Seizure of contraband
20
(1)  An officer who has reason to believe an object he finds
(a) in the possession of an inmate, or
(b) abandoned within the correctional centre
is contraband shall seize the object, record a description of it
and the circumstances in which he seized it, and deposit it in a
secure place within the correctional centre.
(2)  The director shall return to the inmate from whom the
object was seized, or deposit with the inmate's property
surrendered under section 26 and add it to the inventory, an
object seized under subsection (1) (a) unless
(a) it is determined under section 32 that the inmate
breached section 28 (5) by reason of his possession of the object,
or
(b) the object is required as evidence of an offence against
an Act or regulation of the Province or of Canada.
(3)  Where
(a) in the case of an object seized under subsection (1) (a),
it is determined under section 32 that the inmate from whom the
object was seized breached section 28 (5) by reason of his
possession of the object, or
(b) in the case of an object seized under subsection (1) (b),
the director of the correctional centre determines that the object
is contraband,
the object is forfeited to the Crown in right of the Province.
(4)  A determination shall be made under subsection (3) (b)
within 3 days after the day the object was seized.
[en. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 7.]
Search for drugs
21
Where an officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe
that an inmate has a drug concealed in his body, the director may,
in writing, order that the inmate be held in a segregation cell
for a period not exceeding 10 days and given such treatment to
expel or recover the drug as the medical officer considers
necessary and reasonable.
Searches to be conducted with a minimum of force
22
(1)  Only such reasonable and necessary force shall be used
against a person being searched under section 18, 19, 20 or 21 or
the occupants of a motor vehicle in the course of a search under
section 23.
(2)  In so far as reasonably possible, a search under section
18, 19, 20 or 21, or of the occupants of a motor vehicle in the
course of a search under section 23, shall be conducted in a
manner respectful of the privacy and dignity of the person being
searched.
Search of motor vehicle
23
An officer may search a motor vehicle entering, leaving or within
a correctional centre.
Identifying information about inmates
24
(1)  On request by an officer an inmate shall provide
information concerning his name, age, height, weight,
distinguishing marks and other distinguishing particulars.
(2)  On admission to a correctional centre, a photograph of
the inmate shall be taken, but no copy of this photograph shall be
distributed outside the branch except as authorized in writing by
the director.
(3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 8.]
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 8.]
Information inmates are entitled to
25
(1)  On admission to a correctional centre, an inmate shall
receive from the director written information setting out
(a) the provisions of this regulation that relate to the
treatment and conduct of inmates,
(b) the director's rules for the orderly operation of the
correctional centre,
(c) the means whereby an inmate may seek information, make
complaints or apply for temporary absence and parole, and
(d) other facts which may be reasonable and necessary to
assist the inmate to understand his rights and obligations and the
daily routine of the correctional centre.
(2)  Where the director ascertains that an inmate is unable
to adequately understand the written information provided under
subsection (1), the director shall ensure that the inmate receives
oral or other assistance in order that he may understand.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 9.]
Clothing of inmates
26
(1)  On admission to a correctional centre, an inmate shall
surrender all property except that property that the director
determines may be kept in the possession of the inmate, such
property shall be inventoried and a copy of the inventory given to
the inmate.
(2)  All property inventoried pursuant to subsection (1)
shall be stored in a place of safe keeping until the lawful
release of the inmate, at which time such property shall be
returned to the inmate.
(3)  On admission to a correctional centre and subsequently
as reasonably required, an inmate shall receive clean clothing in
good condition suitable for the activities, including work, to
which the inmate is assigned in the weather conditions that
prevail locally.
(3.1)  Notwithstanding subsection (3), a director may make
rules requiring inmates at specified times and under specified
conditions to provide their own clothing.
(4)  Where an inmate is unable to provide himself at the time
of his discharge from a correctional centre with clean clothing
suitable for the weather conditions that prevail at the place of
discharge, the director shall provide the inmate with suitable
clean clothing.
(5)  Subject to the approval of the director, an inmate may
wear clothing recommended by a medical officer or clothing other
than clothing issued under subsection (3).
(6)  Any property abandoned by an inmate on his release,
transfer or escape from the correctional centre and not claimed by
the inmate within 6 months after the day of his release, transfer
or escape is forfeited to the Crown in right of the Province.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 10.]
Travel warrant on discharge
27
On discharge of an inmate, the director shall provide a travel
warrant to enable the inmate to return to the place in the
Province where the inmate was convicted or to such other place in
the Province that the director may consider reasonable and
necessary in the circumstances.
Certain rules of inmate conduct
28
(1)  An inmate shall comply with a lawful order on direction
of an officer.
(2)  Unless authorized by the director or an officer, no
inmate shall leave his cell, place of work or other place to which
he has been assigned.
(3)  No inmate shall wilfully disfigure, attempt to
disfigure, damage or attempt to damage a part of a correctional
centre or the property of another person.
(4)  Unless the owner of the property consents, no inmate
shall take or convert property of another person to his own use or
that of a third person.
(5)  No inmate shall have in his possession, attempt to
obtain or give to any person any contraband.
(6)  An inmate shall keep his person, clothing and sleeping
area clean and orderly.
(7)  No inmate shall assault or threaten or attempt to
assault another person.
(8)  No inmate shall escape or attempt to escape lawful
custody, or be unlawfully at large, or aid and abet anyone to
escape lawful custody or to be unlawfully at large from a
correctional centre.
(9)  Unless unreasonably provoked by that person, no inmate
shall use abusive or insulting language or gesture to a person,
and where an inmate alleges he was unreasonably provoked, the onus
of proof lies with him.
(10)  No inmate shall use indecent language or gesture or
participate in an indecent act.
(11)  No inmate shall conspire to create a disturbance,
create a disturbance, attempt to create a disturbance or incite
others to create a disturbance at a correctional centre.
(12)  No inmate shall, without lawful excuse, breach a rule
or regulation that applies to a correctional centre.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 11.]
Duty of officer to attempt to resolve breach by inmate of rules
and regulations
29
Where an officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe an
inmate has committed or is committing a breach of the rules or
regulations of the correctional centre, the officer shall,
(a) where circumstances allow, stop the breach and explain to
the inmate the nature of the breach, and
(b) where the person aggrieved by the alleged breach
consents, allow the inmate to correct the breach, where possible,
and make amends to the person aggrieved.
Filing of allegation in writing
30
Where, in the opinion of an officer acting under section 29, the
alleged breach has not been satisfactorily resolved by actions
described by that section, the officer shall forthwith
(a) file with the director an allegation in writing outlining
the facts of the alleged breach and citing the specific rule or
regulation allegedly breached, and
(b) give the inmate a copy of the allegation in writing.
Formation of a disciplinary panel
31
(1)  On receipt of an allegation in writing under section 30,
the director shall determine whether the allegation shall be heard
by
(a) where inmates are confined in units, the officer in
charge of the unit where the breach is alleged to have taken
place,
(b) a person, other than an officer, appointed by the
commissioner, or
(c) a disciplinary panel.
(2)  An officer who filed the allegation in writing,
witnessed the alleged breach or investigated the allegation shall
not be the officer or a member of the disciplinary panel hearing
the allegation.
(3)  A disciplinary panel shall be composed in one of the
following ways:
(a) the director as chairman and 2 other members, one of whom
is an officer appointed by the director, and the other a person,
other than an officer, appointed by the commissioner;
(b) a person, other than an officer, appointed by the
commissioner as chairman, and 2 other members, one of whom is the
director and the other an officer appointed by the director;
(c) the director as chairman and 2 other members who are
officers appointed by the director.
(4)  In a correctional centre or unit other than one
described by subsection (3), the disciplinary panel has the
following membership:
(a) the director, who is chairman;
(b) two officers selected from time to time by the director.
(5)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 15.]
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, ss. 12-15.]
Rules to apply at hearing
32
(1)  The hearing of an allegation filed under section 30 (a)
shall, subject to subsection (2), be held within 24 hours,
excluding a Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
(2)  Where an extension of time is required, the director may
postpone the hearing for a period not exceeding 72 hours.
(3)  The inmate must
(a) be advised of the nature of the allegation, and
(b) be present at the hearing, unless
(i)  the inmate chooses not to attend the hearing, or
(ii)  if, in the opinion of the chair of the disciplinary
panel or the officer or other person hearing the allegation,
acting reasonably,
(A)  the presence of the inmate at the hearing would
jeopardize the safety of a person at the hearing, or
(B)  the inmate is causing serious disruption to the hearing.
(4)  When an inmate denies the allegation, the hearing shall
consider the report of the officer who made the allegation and
shall hear oral evidence of the officer who investigated the
allegation.
(5)  The chairman of the disciplinary panel or the officer or
other person hearing the allegation may call such further
witnesses as he deems necessary, including witnesses requested by
the inmate.
(6)  An inmate may give oral evidence and question witnesses.
(7)  The chairman of the disciplinary panel, or the officer
or other person hearing the allegation, shall ensure that a
transcript or tape recording of the hearing is made and that it
includes the contents of the written allegation, any evidence
given at the hearing, the determination made and any disposition
imposed.
(8)  Where the hearing is before a disciplinary panel and its
members are not unanimous in their decision on the determination,
disposition or any other matter in the proceeding, the decision of
the majority of members shall be the decision of the disciplinary
panel.
(9)  After considering the evidence presented, the
disciplinary panel, officer or other person, as the case may be,
shall determine whether or not the inmate committed the alleged
breach.
[am. B.C. Regs. 393/85, ss. 16-18; 255/2004.]
Disposition
33
(1)  Where it is determined under section 32 that the inmate
committed the alleged breach, the disciplinary panel, officer or
other person conducting the hearing may impose one or more of the
following dispositions:
(a) a reprimand;
(b) a temporary or permanent loss of one or more privileges
enjoyed by the inmate within the correctional centre;
(c) that the inmate be confined in a cell other than a
segregation cell at the correctional centre for a period not
exceeding 192 hours to be served on weekends, holidays or evenings
during the term of the inmate's confinement at the correctional
centre;
(d) that the inmate's earned remission that stands to his
credit and that accrued to him to the time of the breach be
forfeited in the amount
(i)  up to 30 days, or
(ii)  up to 60 days with the consent in writing of the
regional director of corrections;
(e) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 19.]
(f) that the inmate be confined in a segregation cell for a
period not exceeding 15 days;
(g) assignment to employment, work service or training for a
period up to four evenings, weekends or holidays in addition to
matter referred to in sections 45 and 46;
(h) that any pay which has accrued to the inmate for a period
up to 30 days be withheld.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1) (b), the visiting
privileges of an inmate shall not be restricted or revoked under
this section except where it is found that the inmate committed a
breach as a direct result of a visit.
(3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 20.]
(4)  Where an inmate is confined in a segregation cell under
subsection (1) (f) for more than 3 days, the director shall review
the circumstances of the inmate immediately on the completion of 3
days of the confinement and determine whether these circumstances
warrant release from segregation.
(5)  Where the director determines under subsection (4) to
allow continued confinement of the inmate in a segregation cell
beyond 3 days, the director shall review the case each day the
confinement continues thereafter and determine whether the
inmate's health warrants release from segregation.
(6)  Where a disposition under subsection (1) has been made
against an inmate and the inmate applies to the disciplinary
panel, officer or other person that made the disposition, the
disciplinary panel, officer or other person may, on the
undertaking of the inmate to comply with all rules and regulations
of the correctional centre in future, reduce or suspend the
disposition and, where they consider it appropriate, direct that,
as a condition of the reduction or suspension, the inmate report
to and be under the supervision of a specified officer for a
period of not more than 3 months during the term of confinement at
the correctional centre.
(7)  Where an inmate breaks an undertaking given, or fails to
comply with a condition imposed under subsection (6), the
disciplinary panel, officer or other person who reduced or
suspended the disposition may
(a) require the inmate to appear before the disciplinary
panel, officer or other person, and
(b) impose on the inmate another disposition under subsection
(1) in place of the disposition that was reduced or suspended.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, ss. 19-22.]
Review
34
(1)  Where a determination is made under section 32 or a
disposition is made under section 33, the officer who filed under
section 30 or the inmate may, within 7 days of the determination
or disposition in question, appeal to the Director of Inspection
and Standards by mailing a written request for review addressed to
that director.
(2)  On receipt of a request for review as provided under
subsection (1), the Director of Inspection and Standards shall
forthwith obtain a transcript or tape recording of the hearing
under review and may require the chairman of the disciplinary
panel or the officer or other person who conducted the hearing, as
the case may be, to submit to him within 7 days written reasons in
support of the determination or disposition under review.
(3)  The Director of Inspection and Standards may stay any
disposition made under section 33 pending a review under this
section.
(4)  On consideration of the material obtained under
subsection (2) for the review, the Director of Inspection and
Standards may
(a) where he is of the opinion that the determination or
disposition is unreasonable, set it aside and substitute an
alternative from section 32 or 33, as the case may be,
(b) where he is of the opinion that no substantial wrong or
miscarriage of justice has occurred, dismiss the appeal, or
(c) where he is of the opinion that there has been a
substantial wrong or miscarriage of justice allow the appeal or
order that a new hearing be held before a disciplinary panel
composed of persons selected by the commissioner.
(5)  Where a new hearing is directed under subsection (4)
(c),
(a) the commissioner shall forthwith appoint 3 persons, who
have had no previous involvement with the allegation against the
inmate or its hearing or review, to serve as the disciplinary
panel,
(b) the new disciplinary panel shall rehear the allegation
filed in writing under section 30 as soon as practical, and
(c) sections 32 and 33 and this section apply to the hearing.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 23.]
Segregation cell
35
(1)  Where, in the opinion of the director, an inmate
(a) exhibits behaviour likely to endanger himself or other
persons, or
(b) obstructs or impedes the proper management, order or
discipline of the correctional centre,
the director may order that the inmate be confined in his cell or
a segregation cell.
(2)  An inmate confined under subsection (1) shall be
released from his cell or the segregation cell to his regular
program within 24 hours of the beginning of the confinement unless
(a) the inmate is, arising out of the circumstances giving
rise to the confinement, charged with an offence under an
enactment of the Province or of Canada, or
(b) the director has requested an examination of the inmate
by 2 medical practitioners for the purpose of removing or
transferring the inmate to a Provincial mental health facility
designated under the
Mental Health Act
.
(3)  Where the director has not, within 5 days from the
beginning of the confinement of an inmate referred to in
subsection (2) (b), recommended or authorized the removal or
transfer of the inmate to a Provincial mental health facility, he
shall at once release the inmate from his cell, or the segregation
cell, to his regular program at the correctional centre.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, ss. 24-26.]
Inmate rights while in a segregation cell
36
During confinement in a segregation cell, an inmate shall
(a) receive 3 meals a day at the times and of the type
normally received by the inmates in the correctional centre
generally,
(b) unless the director considers it could endanger the
inmate or other persons, have a mattress, bedding and clothing of
the type normally issued to the inmates in the correctional
centre,
(c) retain his customary access to reading material and,
unless the director considers this would pose a special danger to
the inmate or other persons, the use of tobacco products,
(d) retain his customary privileges respecting letters and
visits, as set out in these rules and regulations, and
(e) after the first 24 hours of confinement, thereafter be
allowed a minimum one hour exercise period outside the segregation
cell during each 24 hour period unless the director considers this
could endanger the inmate or other persons.
Segregation cells records
37
A director shall have a log book maintained in the segregation
cells area of his correctional centre in which shall be recorded
(a) the name of each inmate confined in a segregation cell,
the date and time his confinement began, and the date and time his
confinement ended,
(b) the name of the officer who ordered the inmate confined
in a segregation cell,
(c) the date and time of a temporary absence of the inmate
from his segregation cell, the reason for the absence, the name of
the officer authorizing the absence, and the date and time of the
inmate's return to segregation cell,
(d) the date and time of a visit made by a person to the
inmate, the name of the person making the visit and, where that
person is an officer or an employee in the branch, the position in
the branch he holds,
(e) the names of each officer in each shift supervising the
segregation cells, and
(f) the date, time, and summary of details concerning any
unusual occurrence occurring in the segregated cell area.
Medical supervision of segregation cell confinement
38
Where an inmate is confined in a segregation cell, the director
shall ensure that
(a) a medical officer or an officer with medical training
visits the inmate at least once during each 24 hour period of
confinement, and
(b) the medical officer, or an officer with medical training
in consultation with a medical officer, shall forthwith advise the
director of the mental or physical condition of an inmate where
such a condition makes continued confinement in the segregation
cell inappropriate.
Separate custody
38.1
(1)  Where, in the opinion of the director, it is necessary
or desirable for the security and order of a correctional centre
or the safety of the inmate that an inmate be kept in custody
separate from other inmates, the director may order that the
inmate be kept separate from other inmates.
(2)  Where an inmate is kept in separate custody under
subsection (1),
(a) the director shall review the reasons for the separate
custody at least once every 7 days and decide whether or not the
circumstances giving rise to the separate custody have changed
sufficiently to permit the inmate to be kept in custody with other
inmates, and
(b) the regional director shall review a decision made under
paragraph (a) within 30 days after the decision is made.
(3)  An inmate kept in separate custody under subsection (1)
shall not for that reason only be deprived of any privilege
granted to other inmates at the correctional centre unless the
privilege cannot reasonably be granted to the inmate having regard
to the limitations of the area in which he is kept separate and
the necessity for the effective operation of that area of the
correctional centre.
[en. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 27.]
Consultation procedure
39
(1)  A request by an inmate to meet and discuss a matter with
the director or an officer shall, without unreasonable delay, be
conveyed by the officer receiving the request to the director or
officer requested.
(2)  The director or officer requested shall meet with the
inmate as soon as reasonable and practical.
(3)  On making a decision concerning a matter discussed with
the inmate as a consequence of a requested meeting under this
section, the director or officer who made the decision shall
advise the inmate of the decision as soon as reasonable and
practical.
Grievance procedure within correctional centre
40
(1)  An inmate may present a written complaint concerning the
operation of the correctional centre to
(a) an officer,
(b) the director,
(c) the district director, or
(d) the regional director.
(2)  Not later than 7 days after the complaint is presented
to a person referred to in subsection (1),
(a) the officer in charge of the unit in which the inmate is
confined, or
(b) where the inmate is not confined in a unit, the director
shall investigate the complaint and advise the inmate in writing
of the results of the investigation.
[en. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 28.]
Grievance to director, inspection and standards
41
(1)  An inmate may make a written complaint concerning the
operation of the correctional centre to the Director of Inspection
and Standards.
(2)  An officer or director shall, on request, provide
assistance to an inmate making a complaint under subsection (1)
and shall, on receipt of a sealed envelope from the inmate
addressed to the Director of Inspection and Standards forthwith
forward the envelope to him.
(3)  On receipt of a written complaint under this section,
the Director of Inspection and Standards shall, as soon as
practical and reasonable
(a) acknowledge receipt to the inmate in writing,
(b) investigate the matter complained of, and
(c) advise in writing the inmate and any officer named in the
complaint of the results of the investigation.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 29.]
Correspondence
42
(1)  Where, in the opinion of a director, an examination of
the contents of any correspondence between an inmate and another
person, other than privileged correspondence, may disclose a
threat to the management, operation, discipline or security of the
correctional centre, the director or an officer authorized by the
director may
(a) open and read the correspondence,
(b) return to the sender any correspondence that in his
opinion threatens the management, operation, discipline or
security of the correctional centre, and
(c) withhold from an inmate any contents in the form of
money, contraband or an object that, under the rules of the
correctional centre, is not permitted to be brought into the
correctional centre.
(2)  Where any money or object is withheld from an inmate
under subsection (1), the director shall
(a) advise the inmate, and
(b) unless the money or object is evidence of an offence
against an Act or regulation of the Province or of Canada, place
the money or object in safekeeping and give it to the inmate on
his release from the correctional centre.
(3)  Where the correspondence addressed to an inmate that
purports to be privileged correspondence may, in the opinion of a
director, threaten the management, operation, discipline or
security of the correctional centre, the director may require the
inmate to open the correspondence in his presence or in the
presence of an officer in order to ensure that the correspondence
is privileged correspondence and that it does not contain
contraband.
(4)  An inmate may receive books or periodicals sent to him
directly from the publisher.
(5)  Every inmate may send as many letters per week as he
sees fit.
(6)  A director shall provide an inmate with postage for
(a) all privileged correspondence, and
(b) in the case of correspondence other than privileged
correspondence, not more than 7 letters a week.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 30.]
Monitoring of communications
43
(1)  Where a director or an officer authorized by the
director has first advised the inmate that oral communication or
telecommunication may be monitored, the director or an officer
authorized by the director may monitor such communication between
an inmate and another person as the director believes may disclose
a threat to the management, operation, discipline or security of
the correctional centre.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), a communication between
an inmate and a person referred to in section 44 (5) (b) to (e)
shall not be monitored.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 31.]
Visitors to an inmate
44
(1)  A director, with the approval of his regional director
of corrections, shall establish rules regulating visits by persons
to inmates at the correctional centre and these rules shall
include provision for
(a) a suitable space within the correction centre where
visits shall take place,
(b) a schedule of hours and days on which visits may be held,
and
(c) the number of visits a week to which an inmate is
entitled.
(2)  Except as authorized by the director, no person shall
visit an inmate except within the space and at such times a
provided under subsection (1) (a) and (b).
(3)  No person shall have access to a correctional centre or
part of a correctional centre except as authorized by
(a) an enactment of the Province or of Canada, or
(b) the consent of the director.
(4)  Where in his opinion the management, operation,
discipline or security of the correctional centre so requires, the
director may
(a) order the removal of a person from the correctional
centre or a part of the correctional centre, or
(b) prohibit any person from visiting inmates at a
correctional centre or part of a correctional centre.
(5)  Visits to a inmate, except those by
(a) a peace officer on duty,
(b) a barrister or solicitor representing an inmate
respecting a charge for which the inmate awaits trial,
(c) a Member of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly,
(d) the commissioner, a regional director, a district
director, or the Director of Inspection and Standards, or
(e) the Ombudsman,
may be supervised by an officer, who may terminate the visit
where, in his opinion, the management, operation, discipline, or
security of the correctional centre is threatened by continuation
of the visit.
(6)  Notwithstanding this section, the persons referred to in
subsection (5) (a) to (e) may visit an inmate at any reasonable
time.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, ss. 32, 33.]
Work, recreation and education opportunities
45
(1)  A director shall provide a program of work and
recreation for all inmates who are serving a sentence at his
correctional centre.
(2)  The director shall, in so far as practical, ensure that
reasonable facilities are provided to interest and assist inmates
to improve their level of education or training.
Participation in work, training and recreation
46
(1)  Unless excused by a medical officer, in writing, an
inmate serving a sentence shall participate in programs through
the correctional centre of work, training or recreation.
(2)  An inmate shall not be unreasonably assigned to
non-essential work duties conflicting with a recognized day of
religious observance in the religious faith to which he belongs.
(3)  Where payment accords with rates approved by the
commissioner, an inmate may receive payment in accordance with
these rates for work done.
Illness or death in the immediate family
47
(1)  Where a director is satisfied that a member of an
inmate's immediate family is critically ill, the director may
permit the inmate to visit that person at the hospital, residence
or other place specified by the director in granting permission.
(2)  On the death of a member of the inmate's immediate
family, the director may permit the inmate to attend the funeral
or, as specified by the director in granting permission, to visit
the funeral parlour, family home or another place.
Medical services
48
(1)  After admission of an inmate to a correctional centre,
the medical officer shall examine the inmate and prepare a written
report on the inmate's
(a) state of health,
(b) suitability for work, training and recreational programs,
and
(c) fitness for transfer or discharge.
(2)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 34.]
(3)  Unless a medical officer certifies that an inmate is fit
for transfer to another correctional centre, the inmate shall not
be transferred.
(4)  Subject to subsection (5), where a medical officer is of
the opinion that at the time an inmate's sentence expires the
inmate suffers from an acute or dangerous illness, the director
shall permit the inmate to remain at the correctional centre until
(a) a medical officer considers that the inmate has
sufficiently recovered, or
(b) alternative arrangements are made for the inmate's care.
(5)  Where the inmate is capable of applying, in writing, to
remain at the correctional centre in the circumstance described in
subsection (4), the director will only grant permission to remain
where the inmate has made written application to do so.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 34.]
Transfers under the
Mental Health Act
49
On forming an opinion that an inmate
(a) is a mentally disordered person, and
(b) requires
(i)  medical treatment in a Provincial mental health facility
designated under the
Mental Health Act
, and
(ii)  care, supervision and control in a Provincial mental
health facility for his own protection or welfare, or for the
protection of others,
the medical officer shall so advise the director and assist him in
arranging removal or transfer of the inmate to a Provincial mental
health facility.
[en. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 35.]
Health care unit
50
A correctional centre shall have an area within it suitably
equipped and maintained for the health care needs of the inmates.
General medical procedures
51
(1)  The medical officer for a correctional centre is
responsible for attending to the mental and physical health needs
of the inmates and shall, at times set by the director, examine
each inmate who is ill or complains of illness or who an officer
indicated may require attention.
(2)  The medical officer shall oversee the quality of hygiene
at the correctional centre and shall keep the director advised of
his findings.
(3)  The medical officer shall keep an inventory of all
controlled drugs, and drugs set out in Schedule A, Part 1, 2 or 3,
or Schedule B of the
Pharmacy Act
1
, under his control and shall keep a written record of each
prescription issued to an inmate under his supervision.
Emergency medical procedures
52
(1)  As soon as practical after he forms an opinion that an
inmate requires
(a) special treatment not available at the correctional
centre, or
(b) segregation for medical reasons,
a medical officer shall so advise his director in writing, and
together with the director take any steps necessary to ensure that
the medical needs of the inmate are attended to.
(2)  Forthwith on forming the opinion that an inmate may
attempt suicide, a medical officer shall inform the director who
shall direct an officer to closely supervise the inmate.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 36.]
Duties of a medical officer on the death of an inmate
53
On the death of an inmate, a medical officer shall forthwith
prepare a written record, including
(a) the date and time the inmate contracted the illness or
injury that caused death,
(b) the date and time this illness or injury was first
reported to a medical officer,
(c) the apparent cause of death,
(d) the date and time of death, and
(e) any other comments that the medical officer considers
relevant concerning the death.
Serious injury, serious illness or death of an inmate
54
(1)  On the serious injury, serious illness, or death of an
inmate, the chaplain or other officer specified by the director
shall immediately notify the next of kin or other person who the
inmate has specified for the purpose of such notification.
(2)  On the death of an inmate, the director or officer in
charge of the correctional centre at the time shall immediately
notify
(a) a coroner,
(b) the local law enforcement agency,
(c) the chaplain,
(d) the district director,
(e) the regional director,
(f) the commissioner, and
(g) the Director of Inspection and Standards.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 37.]
Burial
55
(1)  Where an inmate dies in a correctional centre and a
relative of the inmate or the executor of the deceased's estate
claims the body for burial, the director shall release the body to
that person subject to section 54.
(2)  Where an inmate dies in a correctional centre and no
relative or executor claims the body for burial, the director
shall, in consultation with a chaplain, take appropriate steps to
have the body interred in a local cemetery.
Miscellaneous health matters
56
(1)  A director shall make appropriate arrangements so that
each inmate may wash or have a shower at least once a day.
(2)  On admission to a correctional centre and thereafter as
necessary, and inmate shall be provided with, or given access to,
those toilet articles necessary for his health and cleanliness.
(3)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 38.]
(4)  A director shall ensure that meals provided to inmates
comply in quality and quantity with the standards recommended by
Canada's Food Guide.
[am. B.C. Reg. 393/85, s. 38.]
1.
The
Pharmacy Act
was retitled
Pharmacists Act
in R.S.B.C. 1979-326. This was replaced by the
Pharmacists, Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act
(R.S.B.C. 1996-363). Drug schedules are now enacted by
regulation under sections 61 (2) (1) and 64 of that Act; see
B.C. Reg. 9/98.
[Provisions of the
Correction Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 74, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 35]
