"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Insurance Corporation Act
Special Direction IC1 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission
B.C. Reg. 321/2003
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 307/2004, effective June 30,
2004.
B.C. Reg. 321/2003
O.C. 806/2003
Deposited August 12, 2003
Insurance Corporation Act
Special Direction IC1 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission
Application
1
This special direction is issued by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council to the British Columbia Utilities Commission (the
"commission") under the authority of section 47 of the
Insurance Corporation Act
(the "Act") with respect to the exercise of the commission's
powers and functions as they apply to the corporation.
Direction relating to the corporation
2
(1)  The following financial outcome targets are established
for the corporation:
(a) the net income target for the corporation generally for
2004 is $36 million;
(b) the net income target for the corporation's optional
automobile insurance business for 2004 is $0.
(2)  With respect to the exercise of its powers and functions
under the Act in relation to the corporation, the commission must
(a) fix rates for universal compulsory automobile insurance
that the commission believes are consistent with the corporation
achieving the net income targets established for 2004 under
subsection (1), after taking into account
(i)  the costs that are to be incurred by the corporation in
that year for road safety programs under section 7 (i) of the Act,
including, without limitation, payments by the corporation to any
level of government with respect to road safety,
(ii)  the costs that are to be incurred by the corporation in
that year for vehicle licensing, driver licensing and other
services and activities of the corporation under section 7 (g) and
(h) of the Act that are to be undertaken in that year in
accordance with the agreement, as amended from time to time,
entitled "Service Agreement between The Ministry of Public Safety
and Solicitor General and the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia" and dated as of September 1, 2003,
(iii)  the payments that the corporation is to make in that
year under the agreement entitled "Memorandum of Understanding
between B.C. Provincial Government and ICBC" and executed in
February, 2003, and
(iv)  the commissions that the corporation is to pay in that
year to persons appointed as agents by the corporation under
section 16 of the
Insurance (Motor Vehicle) Act
for collecting government fees and other revenue on behalf of the
corporation, and
(b) subject to subsection (4) of this section, ensure that
universal compulsory automobile insurance rates are not based on
age, gender or marital status.
(3)  With respect to the exercise of its powers and functions
under the Act in relation to the corporation, the commission must
not fix rates applicable to optional automobile insurance.
(4)  The commission may approve universal compulsory
automobile insurance rates that provide discounts to or are
otherwise preferential for
(a) persons who are at least 65 years of age, or
(b) persons with disabilities.
(5)  In regulating and fixing rates for the corporation, the
commission must treat any premiums levied under section 34 (1.1)
(e) of the
Insurance (Motor Vehicle) Act
as revenue for the corporation's universal compulsory automobile
insurance business.
[Provisions of the
Insurance Corporation Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 228, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 47]
