"Point in Time" Regulation Content
British Columbia Transit Act
Commuter Rail Operating Agreement Regulation
B.C. Reg. 439/95
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 53/2017, effective March 1,
2017.
B.C. Reg. 439/95
O.C. 1277/95
Deposited October 19, 1995
British Columbia Transit Act
Commuter Rail
Operating Agreement Regulation
THIS AGREEMENT dated and effective from the 11th day of October,
1995.
BETWEEN:
BRITISH COLUMBIA TRANSIT
a corporation created by the
British Columbia Transit Act
of the Province of British Columbia, R.S.B.C. 1996, Chapter 38, as
amended, and having an office at 520 Gorge Road East, Victoria,
British Columbia, V8W 2P3
(hereinafter called "BC Transit")
AND:
WEST COAST EXPRESS LIMITED
a body corporate duly incorporated under the laws of the Province
of British Columbia and having an office at 295 - 601 West
Cordova, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6B 1G1
(hereinafter called the "Operating Company")
WHEREAS:
A. BC Transit is a Crown Corporation created for the purpose of
planning, constructing, developing and operating public passenger
transportation systems in British Columbia and has, in the
fulfilment of that purpose with the approval and at the direction
of the government of British Columbia, established a commuter rail
system to serve the public transit needs of persons commuting
between the City of Vancouver and the District of Mission;
B. To carry out this purpose, BC Transit is authorized under the
British Columbia Transit Act
("Act") to enter into contracts to provide the services necessary
to the operation of a public passenger transportation system;
C. The Operating Company is organized to operate, manage and
maintain a commuter rail system;
D. The parties have entered into this agreement in fulfilment of
the direction from the government of British Columbia and with the
objective of providing effective and economical commuter rail
service.
THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES that in consideration of the premises and
their respective commitments detailed herein, the parties agree as
follows:
Section 1 — Interpretation
Interpretation
1.1
In this Agreement, unless the context necessarily requires a
different meaning, the word or words,
(a)
"operating costs"
means all of the costs necessarily incurred in the operation of
the commuter rail service including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, all amounts payable pursuant to a
lease, licence or other agreement entitling BC Transit to use for
the commuter rail service any lands, rights of way or interests
therein for the operation of commuter rail trains, station sites
including the access thereto, power substations, transit vehicle
interchanges and parking facilities, but excluding any capital
expenditure made or incurred by BC Transit for the acquisition or
construction of locomotives, passenger cars and equipment, rails,
signals, communication systems and devices and any lease fee or
other amount payable to amortize such capital expenditure;
(b)
"operational change"
means any temporary change in service schedules, train consists
and station access not requiring an amendment to the service
specifications;
(c)
"operations plan"
means a plan incorporating work assignments, service allocations
and budgetary implications identifying the personnel, equipment
and services to be used in the implementation of the service
specifications;
(d)
"revenue vehicle"
means a locomotive or passenger car used for the carriage of
passengers in commuter rail service;
(e)
"service change"
means any permanent change in commuter rail service which requires
the amendment of the Service Specifications such as service hours,
addition or deletion of trips, frequency of trips, discontinuance
of stations and termination of access to parking facilities;
(f)
"service specifications"
means a detailed description of the commuter rail system set out
in Schedule A incorporating:
(i)
the stations, ancillary parking and park-and-ride facilities and
connections to transit services available to commuter rail
passengers;
(ii)
the days and hours of service, non-operating days including
statutory holidays;
(iii)
operational rules covering fare payment requirements, boarding,
alighting and on-board conduct;
(iv)
on-board passenger services;
(v)
service and performance standards;
(g)
"statutory holidays"
means, for the purposes of service specifications, New Year's Day,
Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day,
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day,
Boxing Day and any other day gazetted as statutory holidays;
(h)
"tariff"
means the schedule of fares payable by the users of the commuter
rail service including alternative fare payment methods and
concession fare qualifications all as set out in Schedule B.
Section 2 — BC Transit Responsibilities
To enable the Operating Company to discharge its responsibilities
under this agreement, BC Transit shall:
Planning and operation
2.1
(a)
review, settle and approve the operations plans prepared by the
Operating Company;
(b)
review, settle and approve the service specifications and any
adjustments thereto prepared by the Operating Company.
Financial
2.2
(a)
in consultation with the Operating Company, establish, revise and
settle the process to be followed in the preparation and
presentation of annual capital and operating budgets,
incorporating operating costs;
(b)
incorporate the capital and operating budget of the commuter rail
service and the Operating Company as part of the annual budget of
BC Transit, submit such budget to the Vancouver Regional Transit
Commission and the District of Mission for review and
recommendation, and obtain approval thereof from the board of BC
Transit and Treasury Board. In the event that amendment of the
budget submission is required, to advise the Operating Company of
the nature and extent of the budget adjustments and settle with it
changes in the service specifications and the operations plan
necessary to accommodate to the approved budget. In circumstances
where the adjustment of service specifications and operations plan
to accommodate budget requirements will materially affect the
delivery of commuter rail services, to make representation to the
board of BC Transit and to Treasury Board for the relaxation of
budgetary restrictions and inform the Vancouver Regional Transit
Commission and the District of Mission of any adjustment;
(c)
pay on behalf of or reimburse the Operating Company for all
expenditures made or incurred by it in the performance of this
Agreement which are consistent with the approved budgets;
(d)
in consultation with the Operating Company, determine the extent
to which costs incurred by BC Transit shall be included in the
operating costs;
(e)
in consultation with the Operating Company, settle the form and
process to be used in the submission of financial and operating
performance information by the Operating Company;
(f)
establish procedures to be followed by the Operating Company and
BC Transit for the approval of variances to approved annual
budgets and the necessary adjustment of commuter transit service
as a consequence of such variance;
(g)
to recover from the District of Mission and the Vancouver Regional
Transit Commission their respective prescribed shares of the
operating costs, and to recover from the Province of British
Columbia BC Transit's ratable share of the operating and debt
service costs all in accordance with the regulations made pursuant
to the
British Columbia Transit Act
;
(h)
to receive from West Coast Express and apply to the credit of the
Province of British Columbia against BC Transit's share of
operating and debt services costs all fares and all miscellaneous
revenues produced by the commuter rail system.
Vehicles and physical assets
2.3
Acquire and make available to the Operating Company the
locomotives, rail passenger cars and other physical assets
required for the effective and efficient provision of commuter
rail service under this Agreement;
Risk management
2.4
Make available to the Operating Company risk management,
insurance, and accident investigation services, and the adjustment
and settlement of damage claims against the Operating Company, BC
Transit and their respective contractors and employees, including
the provision of legal services required in the resolution of such
claims.
Section 3 — Operating Company Responsibilities
In the discharge of its function for the delivery of commuter rail
service pursuant to this agreement, the Operating Company shall:
Systems operations
3.1
(a)
Develop the objectives, policies, performance standards and
service specifications for the commuter rail service;
(b)
Develop the operations plan for the efficient delivery of commuter
rail service with particular attention to:
(i)
operating and capital budgets;
(ii)
capital asset additions and replacements;
(iii)
commuter rail system financial audit.
(c)
Manage, operate and maintain the commuter rail system in
accordance with the operations plan and service specifications
adopted hereunder in a manner which will:
(i)
ensure the safe carriage, protection and security of passengers,
employees and other persons using the commuter rail system;
(ii)
maintain and secure all revenue vehicles and physical assets;
(iii)
deliver the services set out in the service specifications in
accordance with the approved budget;
(iv)
inform BC Transit at the earliest opportunity of any circumstance
giving rise to or likely to give rise to an operational change;
(d)
Provide from its own resources or by contract such trained and
competent personnel as are required to operate and maintain the
revenue vehicles in a manner which will ensure the delivery of
commuter rail service with due care and diligence and the use of
every reasonable precaution to prevent loss or damage to persons
using the commuter rail system and to any revenue vehicle;
(e)
Monitor the performance of all employees, agents and contractors
and others engaged by the Operating Company in the delivery of
commuter rail service, and ensure that their performance complies
with the objectives, policies and performance standards adopted
for the delivery of commuter rail service;
(f)
Design and implement a marketing and communications plan with
associated promotional activities required to achieve the
objectives of the commuter rail service, and establish facilities
for public relations and communication services with respect to
all of the activities of the commuter rail system;
(g)
Design and implement the services and amenities required to
achieve the objectives of the commuter rail service;
(h)
Negotiate and enter into all contracts and grant licenses for the
supply of goods and services required by the Operating Company to
fulfill the terms of this Agreement.
Maintenance
3.2
(a)
Ensure that the revenue vehicles and physical assets made
available by BC Transit for the commuter rail system are
maintained in a clean, safe and dependable condition;
(b)
Establish a planned maintenance program to be implemented by its
own personnel, or by qualified persons engaged under contract,
which will ensure the safe operation, structural integrity, and
operating service schedule requirements of the revenue vehicles
and physical assets, and eliminate undue wear and tear and
deterioration affecting the performance of the commuter rail
system;
(c)
Report to BC Transit, annually, on the performance of the
maintenance program, the effectiveness of the design and
construction of revenue vehicles including a forecast of the need
to remove revenue vehicles from service for the purpose of major
overhaul or replacement.
Revenue vehicles performance
3.3
(a)
Maintain statistical records and information relating to:
(i)
adequacy of specifications for physical assets;
(ii)
operating performance of revenue vehicles and physical assets;
(iii)
in the event of performance failures of any physical assets, the
application of warranties;
(iv)
contract performance by the suppliers of revenue vehicles and
physical assets.
(b)
Provide to BC Transit the specifications and indicate the
contractual terms to be used when calling for proposals or tenders
for additional or replacement revenue vehicles.
System performance
3.4
(a)
Monitor and review the operation of the commuter rail system with
emphasis on the effectiveness and efficiency with which the
service specifications are implemented;
(b)
In consultation with BC Transit, prepare revisions to the
operations plan and the service specifications to ensure that the
commuter rail service is delivered in accordance with the service
demand;
(c)
Prepare annual and other requested reports for BC Transit to
present to the Vancouver Regional Transit Commission and the
District of Mission informing them of the performance of the
commuter rail system and the achievement of the objectives,
policies and performance standards incorporated in the operations
plan and service specifications.
Revenue collection and finance
3.5
(a)
Collect from the users of the commuter rail service the fares set
out in the tariff and enforce the rules and regulations
established for the conduct of persons using the commuter rail
system;
(b)
Collect, safeguard and transfer to BC Transit all fares and all
miscellaneous revenues produced by the commuter rail system;
(c)
Keep records of and provide reports to BC Transit pertaining to
the revenue performance of the commuter rail system;
(d)
Establish with BC Transit a system for the maintenance of books of
account and records incorporating all operating and capital
expenditures incurred for the commuter rail system, all the
financial transactions of the Operating Company and all revenues
produced by the commuter rail system;
(e)
Provide to BC Transit an annual financial statement of the
operations of the commuter rail system to March 31 in each
year;
(f)
Provide a monthly financial statement to BC Transit within fifteen
(15) business days of the end of each month reporting on the
revenues generated and expenditures incurred during the month and
containing the information required by BC Transit;
(g)
Prepare and present to BC Transit the annual operating and capital
budget required in accordance with the provisions of section 2.2
(a) of this agreement;
(h)
Prepare and present to BC Transit, monthly, a report on the
compliance with the operating and capital budget showing variances
from the approved budget and forecast of budget compliance;
(i)
Submit, monthly, reports to BC Transit on revenues received, the
forecast of revenues under the tariff, and recommendations to be
submitted to the Lieutenant Governor in Council for the
modification of the tariff.
Commuter rail system advisory committee
3.6
In recognition of direct interest of the residents of the
communities served by the commuter rail service, the role which
the commuter rail system will play in the development of those
communities and the need to establish a means of communication
between BC Transit, the Operating Company and the residents of
those communities, the Operating Company will establish an
Advisory Committee comprising representatives of the Vancouver
Regional Transit Commission and the District of Mission. The
Operating Company shall set the terms of reference of the Advisory
Committee, a schedule for its meetings and provide such resources
as are required by the committee for the discharge of its
responsibilities.
Section 4 — Joint Responsibilities of BC Transit and the Operating
Company to the Government of British Columbia
In the discharge of their respective functions for the commuter rail
system pursuant to this Agreement, BC Transit and the Operating
Company shall:
4.1
Cause this operating agreement and all amendments thereto to be
submitted to, for approval and confirmation by a regulation of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council;
4.2
Construct, maintain and operate the commuter rail system in strict
compliance with the provisions of the
British Columbia Transit Act
and the regulations made from time to time by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council;
4.3
Collect from persons using the commuter rail service the fares set
out in the tariff.
Section 5 — Indemnity
5.1
BC Transit shall indemnify and save harmless the Operating
Company, its directors, officers, and employees against and shall
defend any and all claims, actions, suits and proceedings brought
or made against them arising from the operation of the commuter
rail system in accordance with the provisions of this agreement
including the cost of all legal proceedings and any fines and
penalties.
5.2
BC Transit shall provide and maintain insurance coverage of the
nature and with adequate limits covering all physical assets used
by the Operating Company and public liability for all passengers
carried on the commuter rail service.
5.3
The Operating Company shall report to BC Transit, without delay,
all claims of which it has notice whether arising from an accident
or otherwise in any way connected with or arising from an accident
or otherwise in any way connected with or arising from the
operation of the commuter rail system. The Operating Company and
its officers and employees shall provide to BC Transit and to its
insurer such information as may be available with respect to any
such claim. No officer or employee of the Operating Company shall
admit to any liability or offer any settlement in respect of any
such claim without the prior written authorization of BC Transit
and its insurer.
5.4
BC Transit shall, quarterly, report to the Operating Company with
respect to all reported incidents of which it has received notice
and all claims settled and paid during the preceding month.
Section 6 — Term and Renewal
6.1
The term of this agreement shall commence on the date hereof and
shall continue until March 31, 1997, and thereafter shall be
automatically renewed for successive terms of one (1) years each
unless cancelled by not less than twelve (12) months written
notice given by either party to the other on a date of renewal.
Section 7 — Cancellation
7.1
BC Transit may terminate this agreement upon breach by the
Operating Company of any term or condition hereof, including
non-performance by the Operating Company of any of its
responsibilities under section 3, provided the Operating Company
has been given written notice within seven (7) days of the alleged
breach or non-performance and has not, within sixty (60) days of
the receipt of such notice rectified the breach or
non-performance. In the event that the breach or non-performance
is not rectified, the agreement shall terminate at the end of the
sixty (60) day period without further notice. Non-performance by
the Operating Company of any term or condition of this agreement
as the result of a strike, lockout, governmental action or other
circumstance beyond the control of the Operating Company, or by
any reason of any similar action or circumstance affecting the
performance of any person with whom the Operating Company has
contracted for the performance of any obligation under this
agreement, shall not constitute a breach by the Operating Company
entitling BC Transit to terminate this agreement.
Section 8 — Amendment
8.1
This agreement may only be amended by memorandum in writing signed
by both parties.
Section 9 — Assignment
9.1
No part of this agreement may be assignable without the written
consent of the other party.
Section 10 — Notice
10.1
All notices required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
in writing and shall be sufficiently given if personally served to
a responsible officer of the party to whom the notice is directed,
sent by electronic means or mailed by prepaid registered mail to:
(a)
President, BC Transit, 520 Gorge Road East, Victoria, British
Columbia, V8W 2P3;
(b)
President, West Coast Express Limited, 295 - 601 West Cordova,
Vancouver, BC V6B 1G1
or such other address as either of the parties may specify by
written notice to the other party.
Any such notice shall be effective on the day of such personal
delivery or the day following the transmission by electronic
means, on the day five (5) days following the date of posting in
an office of Canada Post, provided that notice by registered
letter shall not be effective if, at the time of posting, any
interruption of mail service at the place of posting is then in
effect or, to the knowledge of the parties, is contemplated to
occur within seven (7) days of the date of posting.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this agreement to
be executed.
BRITISH COLUMBIA TRANSIT
WEST COAST EXPRESS LIMITED
Schedule A
Service Specifications
The commuter rail system is designed to operate within the following
service parameters:
1 Regular commuter rail service to eight (8) stations with parking
facilities and bus interchanges as follows:
Station
Parking
Bus Interchanges
Waterfront
None
On street
Port Moody
205 stalls
5 bay bus loop
Coquitlam Central
550 stalls
14 bay bus loop
Port Coquitlam
240 stalls
8 bay bus loop
Pitt Meadows
140 stalls
On street
Maple Meadows
450 stalls
5 bay bus loop
Port Haney
None
On street
Mission City
stalls
On street
2 Commencing November 1, 1995, regular commuter rail service shall
be provided each Monday through Friday with the exception of
pre-announced statutory holidays determined by West Coast Express in
consultation with BC Transit.
Daily, five (5) commuter rail trains will provide westbound service
in the AM peak period between 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., and five (5)
trains will operate eastbound in the PM peak period between 3:00
p.m. and 7:00 p.m.
Service may be provided on additional days or by additional trips in
any day to meet service demands as determined by West Coast Express
in consultation with BC Transit.
Frequency of trains in the AM or PM peak period shall not be less
than 20 minutes and not more than 30 minutes subject to delays
occasioned by weather, equipment failure or circumstances beyond the
reasonable control of West Coast Express.
3 Commuter rail service will be provided in a manner which will
comply with the Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation prescribed
pursuant to the
British Columbia Transit Act
governing fare payment and rules governing boarding, alighting and
on-board conduct.
4 West Coast Express will operate the commuter rail service in a
manner which will provide ancillary services designed for the
comfort, convenience and safety of passengers at the stations and
associated parking facilities and on board the trains.
5 West Coast Express will provide and maintain clean, efficient
passenger service accommodation, and develop a service schedule with
the objective of maintaining on-time service at each station in
accordance with transit and commuter rail industry standards.
Schedule B
Tariff
Commuter Rail Service Fare Tariff
effective November 1, 1995
Section A — Definitions
In this Tariff unless otherwise indicated, the words and terms have
the following meaning:
Add-Fare
A fare category that allows the holder of a valid BC Transit
fare receipt/transfer, validated faresaver or monthly pass
credit toward the applicable West Coast Express fare.
Adult Fare
A fare category that includes any passenger who is not a child
or eligible for a concession fare as defined under this
Tariff.
Authority
BC Transit or any company operating transit services on behalf
of BC Transit.
Bicycle
A two-wheeled non-motorized pedal drive vehicle, specifically
excluding mopeds, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, tricycles
or bicycles designed for more than one person.
CNIB Pass
A non-transferable (non-photographic) card issued annually by
the CNIB (Canadian Institute for the Blind). Valid proof of
entitlement for West Coast Express Concession fare.
CareCard
The BC Care Card for Seniors issued by the provincial
government to persons over 65 years old. Valid proof of age
entitlement for West Coat Express concession fare.
Cash
Coins or printed currency issued by the Government of Canada
for use as legal tender.
Child
A person who is under fourteen (14) years of age.
Commuter Service
Commuter Service is the public passenger transportation system
providing commuter rail service between Waterfront station in
Vancouver and Mission City station.
Concession Fare
A fare category that includes children age five (5) to
thirteen (13) years, students age fourteen (14) to nineteen
(19) with a valid GoCard and persons in possession of a valid
CNIB pass, MSS pass, HandyPass, War Amputee pass or CareCard.
Customer IOU
An IOU issued at the sole discretion of a transit employee to
a passenger lacking sufficient funds to purchase the
applicable fare for travel on West Coast Express to be signed
by the passenger with the promise to pay to the Authority the
full fare at a specified date.
FareCard
A monthly transit pass issued by the Authority for travel on
the Vancouver Regional Transit System. Valid proof of
entitlement for West Coast Express add fare.
Fare Paid Zone
Any commuter rail passenger car or transit property or portion
to which access is restricted to persons in possession of
valid proof of payment.
Fare Receipt/Transfer
A printed receipt for fare payment issued by the Authority to
regulate and control travel and the payment of fares.
Fare Zones
Zone 1 — commuter service accessible at Waterfront station;
Zone 2 — commuter service through the City of Burnaby;
Zone 3 — commuter service accessible at Port Moody, Coquitlam
Central and Port Coquitlam stations;
Zone 4 — commuter service accessible at Pitt Meadows, Maple
Meadows and Port Haney stations;
Zone 5 — commuter service accessible at Mission station.
FastTrax Decal
Identification sticker issued by BC Transit available to full
time students of eligible public post-secondary institutions
from their student societies that confirms the bearer is
eligible to use a two-zone 28-day pass in all zones.
GoCard
Photographic identification cards issued by the Authority, its
contractors or school authorities that incorporate design
features specified and approved by BC Transit to identify
students eligible for concession fare.
HandyPass
Photographic identification cards issued by the Authority to
persons eligible to use custom transit service. Valid proof of
entitlement for concession fare. A person who accompanies and
assists a HandyPass holder may ride free.
Journey
A continuous trip made by a passenger within one or more fare
zones for which the required fare has been paid.
MSS Transit Pass
Identification cards issued by the Ministry of Social Services
with the authority of BC Transit that incorporates design
features specified and approved by BC Transit. Valid proof of
entitlement for concession fare.
Monthly Pass
A printed card issued by BC Transit, also called a FareCard in
the Vancouver Regional Transit Service area or SuperPass in
the Central Fraser Valley Service area, which entitles the
holder to unrestricted travel on the respective transit
systems subject to specific terms and conditions during the
month printed on the card.
Employee &
Family Member
Passes
Passes issued by BC Transit to eligible employees and one
designated family member.
Retired Employee Passes
Passes issued by BC Transit to an eligible retired employee
and his/her spouse.
Passenger
Any person using or attempting to use West Coast Express.
Proof of Payment
A valid add fare or ticket receipt, weekly pass, or 28-day
pass purchased from a West Coast Express ticket vending
machine, or other valid pass. Any proof of payment that has
been altered, defaced, duplicated, taped, waxed, or modified
in any other manner is invalid.
Statutory Holidays
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C.
Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas
Day and Boxing Day.
Stored Value Card
A plastic card with an embedded computer chip sold by West
Coast Express that enables the purchaser to deposit (charge)
and recharge up to $100 in stored value from ticket vending
machines for future use when buying West Coast Express
add-fare, one-way and return tickets or weekly passes.
Student
A person who:
(i) at the start of the school year is between fourteen (14)
and nineteen (19) years of age, and
(ii) regularly attends classes at a public school up to and
including Grade 12 or at a private school where he/she is
receiving full time course or instruction leading to a high
school graduation certificate or the completion of Grade 12,
and
(iii) is a resident of the Vancouver Regional Transit Service
Area or Central Fraser Valley Transit Service Area.
Ticket
Printed piece of card or paper issued by the Authority
entitling the holder to access to a fare paid zone at a fare
equal to its face value.
Ticket Vending Machine
A mechanical device that issues ticket or pass fare receipts.
Transfer
See fare receipt/transfer.
Transit Employee
A person employed by the Authority or an operating company.
Validated Faresaver
A faresaver ticket that has been marked with the boarding
location, date, and time.
War Amputee Pass
An annual pass issued by BC Transit and distributed by the War
Amputations Association. Valid as proof of entitlement for
concession fare.
Section B — Terms and Conditions
The provisions of this part shall not apply to commuter service
operated in special service or under Commercial/Institutional
Purchase of Service Contracts.
Animals
The Authority shall not be obliged to carry animals. Exceptions will
be made for assistance dogs while assisting or being trained to
assist blind, deaf, or otherwise disabled persons.
Baggage
The Authority shall not be obliged to carry any package or baggage
exceeding 10 kilograms for any one passenger. Any employee may
refuse to allow any passenger to bring with him on board a commuter
rail passenger car anything that in the opinion of the employee
might cause inconvenience to passengers or to employees, or damage
the Authority's property, or constitute a safety hazard to
passengers or their property, or to employees or property of the
Authority.
Bicycles
West Coast Express may carry up to two bicycles per car. A fare (in
addition to that paid by the cyclist) will be levied for carriage of
each bicycle. Bicycles on board trains must display valid proof of
fare payment at all times.
The bicycle must remain in the control of the owner at all times
when not securely fastened in the on-board bicycle racks, or locked
on a bicycle rack or in a bicycle locker at a station. Bicycles must
not be ridden on/off the trains, ramps, walkways, sidewalks, stairs,
buildings and bus loops. Bicycles shall not obstruct doors or
aisles. Cyclists must exit the commuter rail passenger car after all
other passengers have alighted.
The Authority reserves the right to relocate any bicycle in the
on-board racks to make way for a wheelchair passenger.
Compliance with the Tariff
Every passenger is required to produce on demand proof of payment of
applicable fare, plus proof of entitlement to a concession or add
fare.
Delivery of Service Disclaimer
West Coast Express services are under continuous review and subject
to change or alteration. While every effort is made to advise the
public of service revisions and schedule adjustments, West Coast
Express does not undertake or guarantee that commuter rail service
will be operated in accordance with published timetables, or at all.
Neither BC Transit nor West Coast Express nor the Vancouver Regional
Transit Commission nor the District of Mission are responsible for
any loss, damage or inconvenience caused by any operating failure,
service disruption or any lack of or delay in service.
Authority of Transit Employees
Any transit employee may exercise all of the rights of the Authority
under this Tariff.
Fares
Add-Fares
• Available: To all eligible passengers from ticket vending
machines.
• Applicable: To holders of a valid BC Transit fare
receipt/transfer, validated faresaver or monthly pass for purchase
of a one-way or return ticket.
• Fare:
Adult
:
(i) for holders of a valid BC Transit Vancouver Regional
Transit Service fare receipt/transfer, validated faresaver or
monthly pass, a $1.50 fare credit toward the fare payable to
travel on West Coast Express.
(ii) for holders of a valid BC Transit Central Fraser Valley
Service fare receipt or SuperPass a $1.00 fare credit toward
the fare payable to travel on West Coast Express.
Concession
:
(i) for holders of a valid concession fare receipt, validated
faresaver or monthly pass, a $0.75 fare credit toward the fare
payable to travel on West Coast Express.
Adult Fares
• Available: To all passengers from ticket vending machines.
• Applicable: To any journey made by an adult, student or senior NOT
eligible for a CONCESSION FARE along the West Coast Express route.
Fares:
One-Way
Return
Weekly
28-day
Within One Zone
$3.00
$5.85
$27.00
$90.00
Within Two Zones
$3.00
$5.85
$27.00
$90.00
Within Three Zones
$4.00
$7.80
$36.00
$120.00
Within Four Zones
$5.00
$9.75
$45.00
$150.00
Within Five Zones
$7.00
$13.65
$63.00
$210.00
Bicycles
• Available: Return Tickets for bicycles are available from ticket
vending machines.
Quarterly Passes for bicycles are available from West Coast Express
office or other designated locations.
• Fare:
Return Ticket
— to be attached to bicycle; $1.00
Quarterly Pass
— to be adhered to bicycle; $45.00
Children Under Five Years of Age
A child under five (5) years of age shall be carried free, when
accompanied by an adult, senior or student. An adult, senior or
student may not accompany more than four children under five years
of age.
Children Age 5 to 13 Years
Children age 5 to 13 years are eligible for a CONCESSION FARE for
any journey on West Coast Express.
[Provisions of the
British Columbia Transit Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 38, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 13 (5) and 32]
