"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Railway Act
Part XII: Storage, Handling and Transportation of Dangerous Goods by
Railway
B.C. Reg. 85/89
Note: This regulation has been placed in the Regulations Point in
Time collection. This regulation is not repealed.
B.C. Reg. 85/89
Regulation of the Minister
Deposited April 7, 1989
Railway Act
Part XII: Storage, Handling and Transportation of Dangerous Goods
by Railway
Interpretation
1
In this Part:
"Canadian Transport Commission"
means the Canadian Transport Commission established under the
National Transportation Act, 1966-67
(Canada)
1
and includes a president, vice-president or commissioner of the
Canadian Transport Commission or the Railway Transport Committee
referred to in a regulation adopted by section 2 of this Part;
"director"
means the Director of Operations referred to in the regulations
listed in section 2 of this Part;
"federal agency"
means the Governor in Council, the federal minister, the Canadian
Transport Commission, secretary, director, inspector, officer or
representative;
"federal minister"
means the minister as defined in section 4 of the
Railway Safety Act
(Canada);
"inspector"
means an inspector or inspecting engineer referred to in a
regulation listed in section 2 of this Part and includes a railway
safety inspector appointed under the
Railway Safety Act
(Canada);
"officer"
means an officer of the Canadian Transport Commission;
"Provincial agency"
means the minister, an inspecting engineer or the Chief Inspecting
Engineer referred to in section 2 of this Part;
"representative"
means a representative of the Canadian Transport Commission;
"secretary"
means the Secretary of the Canadian Transport Commission.
Federal regulations adopted by reference
2
The following regulations made by the Canadian Transport
Commission
(a) Regulations for the Transportation of Dangerous
Commodities by Rail,
(b) the Piggyback Cargo Tanks Regulations,
(c) the Liquefied Petroleum Gases Bulk Storage Regulations,
(d) the Flammable Liquids Bulk Storage Regulations,
(e) the Anhydrous Ammonia Bulk Storage Regulations,
(f) the Railway Cars Gas Fuel Systems Regulations,
(g) the Chlorine Tank Car Unloading Facilities Regulations,
and
(h) the Ammonium Nitrate Storage Facilities Regulations,
as adopted by section 113 of the
Railway Safety Act
(Canada) or amended from time to time under that Act, are adopted
and apply to all railways and persons to whom the
Railway Act
applies as though
(i) the minister was the Governor in Council, the federal
minister or the Canadian Transport Commission,
(j) the Chief Inspecting Engineer, Engineering and Inspection
Branch, Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Recreation and Culture was
the secretary or the director, and
(k) an inspecting engineer was an inspector, officer or
representative.
Communications
3
Where, under regulations referred to in section 2 of this Part,
leave, advice or approval must be sought, an application must be
made, notification must be given, a document must be filed or
business in some other form must be transacted with a federal
agency, that transaction shall be conducted with the Provincial
agency that under section 2 of this Part stands in the place of
the federal agency.
Adoption of certain federal standards
4
(1)  Where a federal agency in the context of regulations
referred to in section 2 of this Part has made a rule, order,
regulation or other standard of general application for the safe
storage, handling or transportation of goods, this applies to
railways and persons to which this Part applies.
(2)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), where a Provincial
agency has adopted another standard of general application in
place of one referred to in subsection (1), the other standard of
the Provincial agency applies and that of the federal agency does
not apply.
A federal agency may act as agent for a Provincial agency
5
Where the Provincial government and the federal government have
agreed that a federal agency shall act as agent of a Provincial
agency for the purposes of a power, function or duty under
regulations referred to in section 2 of this Part, that power,
function or duty may be exercised by the federal agency and
persons shall, for this purpose, deal with the federal agency as
though section 3 of this Part did not apply.
Restrictions on the application of the federal regulations
6
Section 2 of this Part does not give the minister power to make
regulations and does not make offence provisions under the
regulations adopted by section 2 of this Part apply to this Part.
Notification
7
(1)  Each railway company shall ensure that its employees who
handle, store or transport dangerous goods are fully informed on
the provisions of this Part and the federal regulations it adopts.
(2)  To comply with subsection (1), each railway company
shall have available to its employees sufficient copies of this
Part and the federal regulations it adopts.
1.
This Act was revised as R.S.C. 1985-N20; its title was changed
in 1987 to National Telecommunications Powers and Procedures
Act and it was subsequently repealed by S.C. 1993-38-13,
effective Oct. 25,1993
Note:
this regulation replaces B.C. Reg. 463/59.
[Provisions of the
Railway Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 395, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 271]
