"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Workers Compensation Act
Industrial Health and Safety Regulation
B.C. Reg. 585/77
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 312/2004, effective January 1,
2005.
B.C. Reg. 585/77
W.C.B.
Filed December 14, 1977
effective January 1, 1978
Workers Compensation Act
Industrial Health and Safety Regulation
Section 2 — Application of Regulations
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Scope of application or regulations
2.02
These regulations apply to all employers, workers and all other
persons working in or contributing to the production of any
industry within the scope of Part 3 of the
Workers Compensation Act
and within the inspectional jurisdiction of the Board.
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 4.]
Absence of specific regulations
2.04
Notwithstanding the absence of a specific regulation, all
employment and work shall be carried out without undue risk of
injury or industrial disease to any person subject to these
regulations.
Conflict with codes and standards
2.06
If any conflict should appear between these regulations, or the
First Aid Regulations, and any code or standard with which
compliance is required by these regulations, the provisions of
these regulations or the First Aid Regulations shall prevail over
any conflicting provision of such code or standard.
Repealed
2.08-2.10
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 5.]
Prompt compliance
2.12
Every person to whom an order or directive is issued by the Board
shall comply forthwith or so soon thereafter as the order or
directive shall provide.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 6.]
Inspection reports
2.14
(1)  An inspection report shall remain posted for a minimum
of 7 days.
(2)  Where a joint committee or a worker health and safety
representative is required at a workplace, the employer shall
produce for the committee or representative the inspection report
or a copy thereof at or before the next meeting of the committee
or with the representative.
[en. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 7.]
Contravention of regulations
2.16
(1)  Contravention of a regulation shall be deemed to be a
contravention by the employer and shall make that employer liable
for the penalty prescribed by the
Workers Compensation Act
, but nothing in this clause shall relieve the supervisor or
worker.
(2)  Contravention of a regulation by a supervisor or a
worker shall be deemed to be a contravention by the supervisor and
shall make that supervisor liable for the penalty prescribed, but
nothing in this clause shall relieve the worker.
(3)  Contravention of a regulation by a worker shall make
that worker liable for the penalty prescribed.
(4)  Contravention of a regulation by a person working in or
contributing to the production of an industry within the scope of
the
Workers Compensation Act
, being neither an employer nor a worker, shall make that person
liable for the penalty prescribed.
[en. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 8.]
"Notice to Workers" placard
2.18
Every employer shall cause to be kept posted in a conspicuous
place at each workplace, any placard or notice issued by the Board
which is headed by the words "Notice to Workers".
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 9.]
Repealed
2.20
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 10.]
Section 4 — Occupational Health and Safety Programs
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
General Requirements
General requirements
4.02
(1)  An occupational health and safety program as outlined in
clause (5) shall be initiated and maintained by each employer
having
(a) a work force of 20 or more workers, in an industry
classified as "A" or "B" hazard by the Board's First Aid
Regulations, or
(b) a work force of 50 or more workers in an industry
classified as "C" hazard by the Board's First Aid Regulations.
(2)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an occupational health
and safety program may be required when, in the opinion of a Board
officer, such a program is necessary.
(3)  In any operation where the work force is less than that
referred to in clause (1) the employer shall initiate and maintain
a less formal program based on regular monthly meetings with
employees for discussion of health and safety matters. The
meetings shall be directed to matters concerning the correction of
unsafe conditions and practices and the maintenance of cooperative
interest in the safety of the work force. The employer shall
maintain a record of the meetings and the matters discussed.
(4)  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 12 (i).]
(5)  The occupational health and safety program shall be
designed to prevent injuries and occupational diseases. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the program shall
include:
(a) a statement of the employer's aims and the
responsibilities of the employer, supervisors and workers;
(b) provision for the regular inspection of premises,
equipment, work methods and work practices, at appropriate
intervals, to ensure that prompt action is undertaken to correct
any hazardous conditions found, as required by regulation 8.08;
(c) appropriate written instructions to supplement the
Board's Industrial Health and Safety Regulation. Copies of the
instructions shall be available for reference by all employees;
(d) provision for holding periodic management meetings for
the purpose of reviewing health and safety activities and incident
trends, and for the determination of necessary courses of action;
(e) provision for the prompt investigation of incidents to
determine the action necessary to prevent their recurrence;
(f) the maintenance of records and statistics, including
reports of inspections and incident investigations, with provision
for making this information available to the joint committee or
the worker health and safety representative, as applicable and
upon request, to an officer of the Board, the union representing
the workers at the workplace or, where there is no union, the
workers at workplace;
(g) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 12 (g).]
(h) provision by the employer for the instruction and
supervision of workers in the safe performance of their work.
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 12.]
Repealed
4.04-4.06
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 13.]
Section 6 — Incident Investigation Reports
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Repealed
6.02-6.04
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 15.]
Incident investigation reports
6.06
The employer shall ensure that an incident investigation report
required by Division 10 of Part 3 of the
Workers Compensation Act
contains
(a) the place, date and time of the incident,
(b) the names and job titles of persons injured in the
incident
1
,
(c) the names of witnesses,
(d) a brief description of the incident,
(e) a statement of the sequence of events which preceded the
incident,
(f) identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or
procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident,
(g) recommended corrective actions to prevent similar
incidents, and
(h) the names of the persons who investigated the incident.
[am. B.C. Regs. 374/79, s. 6; 187/99, s. 16.]
Repealed
6.08-6.10
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 17.]
Section 8 — Workplaces — General Requirements
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Scope
8.00
This section contains regulations which are common to all
workplaces.
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 18.]
Maintenance and Safe Premises and Operations
Strength of structures and equipment
8.02
(1)  The employer shall ensure that
(a) machinery and equipment are capable of safely performing
the functions for which they are used, and
(b) all buildings and permanent and temporary structures are
capable of withstanding any stresses likely to be imposed upon
them.
(2)  Except as provided elsewhere in these regulations, the
safe working load of any equipment shall be that specified by the
manufacturer.
(3)  The safe working load shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer where
(a) the manufacturer's specification or other acceptable
warranty cannot be produced,
(b) the equipment has been modified in a manner which will
change its safe working load,
(c) wear, corrosion, damage or signs of fatigue are found
which may reduce the safe working load,
(d) the equipment is used in a manner or for purposes other
than that for which it was originally designed, when such use will
change the safe working load, or
(e) in the opinion of the Board, the provision of such
certification is deemed to be necessary.
Maintenance of safe work conditions
8.04
All buildings, excavations, structures, machinery, equipment,
tools and workplaces shall be maintained in such condition that
workers will not be endangered.
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 18.]
Re-assembled equipment or structures
8.06
When any equipment or structure is dismantled in whole or in part,
and subsequently re-assembled, it shall not be used until
completely checked and found to be safe for operation or use.
Inspection of workplaces
8.08
(1)  Every employer shall ensure that regular inspections are
made of all workplaces, including buildings, structures, grounds,
excavations, tools, equipment, machinery and work methods and
practices. Such inspections shall be made at intervals that will
prevent the development of unsafe working conditions.
(2)  Machinery, tools and equipment shall be inspected in
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations or as otherwise
specified by the relevant sections of these regulations.
(3)  Special inspections shall be made when required by
malfunction or accident.
(4)  Inspections required by clause (1) and major inspections
required by clause (3) shall, where feasible, include the
participation of members of the joint committee or worker health
and safety representative, as applicable. Where there is no joint
committee or worker health and safety representative, the employer
shall designate an employer representative and the union shall
designate a worker representative. Where there is no union the
employer shall invite the workers to designate one of their
number.
(5)  Unsafe or harmful conditions found in the course of such
inspections shall be remedied without delay.
[am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 19.]
Correction of unsafe conditions
8.10
Whenever a person observes what appears to be an unsafe or harmful
condition or act he shall report it as soon as possible to a
supervisor or to the employer. The person receiving the report
shall investigate the reported unsafe condition or act and shall
ensure that any necessary corrective action is taken without
delay.
Exposure to imminent danger
8.12
Where emergency action is required to correct a condition which
constitutes an immediate threat to workers only those qualified
and properly instructed workers necessary to correct the unsafe
condition shall be exposed to the hazard. Every possible effort
shall be made to control the hazard while this is being done.
Provision and use of clothing and protective equipment
8.14
(1)  Every worker shall equip himself with clothing suitable
for protection against the natural elements to which the workers
may be exposed, and, where required by these regulations, with
gloves, safety headgear and safety footwear.
(2)  Every employer shall equip each worker, at no cost to
the worker, with respiratory, fall-arresting, buoyancy, eye and
hearing protective devices, foot guards and other specialized
protective garments and equipment, where required by these
regulations.
(3)  Every employer shall ensure that all safeguards, safety
appliances and devices, including personal protective equipment
necessary for the protection of workers, are available and are
used by the workers.
(4)  Nothing in this regulation precludes or alters a future
or existing agreement or arrangement between a worker or workers
and an employer to the effect that the employer will be
responsible for the provision, either at no cost to the worker or
at some cost to the worker, of any or all of the items described
in clause (1).
Circumvention of safeguards
8.16
No person shall intentionally remove, impair, or render
ineffective any safeguard provided for the protection of workers.
Repealed
8.18-8.20
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 20.]
Equipment and Work Processes
Authorized operation of machinery and equipment
8.22
Machinery and equipment shall be operated only by authorized
persons. No person shall be authorized who has not been adequately
instructed and trained, and who has not demonstrated an ability to
operate safely the machinery or equipment.
Work restrictions
8.24
(1)  No person shall carry out or cause to be carried out any
work process or operate or cause to be operated any tool,
appliance or equipment when that person has reasonable cause to
believe that to do so would create an undue hazard to the health
or safety of any person.
(2)  Pursuant to clause (1) a worker who refuses to carry out
a work process or operate a tool, appliance or equipment shall
forthwith report the circumstances of the unsafe condition to his
supervisor or employer.
(3)  The supervisor or employer receiving a report made under
clause (2) shall forthwith investigate the matter and
(a) ensure that any unsafe condition is remedied without
delay, or
(b) if in his opinion the report is not valid he shall so
inform the person who made the report.
(4)  When the procedure under clause (3) does not resolve the
matter and a worker continues to refuse to carry out a work
process, the supervisor or employer shall investigate the matter
in the presence of the worker who made the report and in the
presence of
(a) a worker representative of the joint committee,
(b) a worker who is selected by a trade union representing
the worker, or
(c) when there is no joint committee or the worker is not
represented by a trade union, any other reasonably available
worker selected by the worker.
(5)  When the investigation under clause (4) does not resolve
the matter and a worker continues to refuse to carry out a work
process or operate a tool, appliance or equipment, both the
supervisor, or the employer, and the worker shall forthwith notify
an officer of the Board who shall investigate the matter without
undue delay and issue whatever orders he deems necessary.
(6)  No worker shall be subject to the discriminatory action
as defined in section 150 of the
Workers Compensation Act
because he has acted in compliance with this regulation or an
order made by an officer of the Board.
(7)  Temporary assignment to alternative work at no loss in
pay to the worker until the matter in clause (1) is resolved shall
be deemed not to constitute discriminatory action.
(8)  Materials, articles or objects to be manually lifted,
carried or moved shall be lifted, carried or moved in such a
manner and with such precautions and safeguards, including
training, protective clothing, and mechanical aids, as will ensure
that the process does not endanger the health and safety of any
worker.
[en. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 7; am. B.C. Reg. 187/99, s. 21.]
Putting equipment into operation
8.26
Before any equipment or machinery is put into operation the person
responsible for doing so shall ensure that:
(a) all safeguards and air contaminant controls required by
these regulations are in place and functioning, and
(b) no person will be endangered by putting the equipment or
machinery into operation.
Impaired Persons
Physical and mental impairments
8.28
Workers with physical or mental impairment shall not be assigned
to work where such impairment endangers themselves or others.
Impairment by alcohol, drug or other substance
8.30
No person shall enter or remain or be permitted to remain on the
premises of any place of employment while his ability to work is
so affected by alcohol, drug or other substance as to endanger his
health or safety or that of any other person.
Men Working Alone
Checking worker's well-being
8.32
Where a worker is employed under conditions which present a
significant hazard of disabling injury, and when the worker might
not be able to secure assistance in the event of injury or other
misfortunes, the employer shall provide a means of periodically
checking the well-being of the worker. Checks shall be made at
such intervals and by such means as are appropriate to the nature,
hazard and circumstances of the employment.
Improper Conduct
Improper conduct
8.34
No person shall engage in any improper activity or behaviour that
might create or constitute a hazard to himself or any other
worker. For the purpose of this regulation, improper activity or
behavior includes "horseplay", scuffling, fighting, practical
jokes, unnecessary running or jumping, or similar conduct.
Access to and Egress from Work Areas
Access to work area
8.36
All places where work is performed shall have safe means of access
and egress appropriate to the conditions of the work area, and
workers shall not use any other means, if these means are
hazardous.
Arrangement of work area
8.38
(1)  Work areas shall be arranged to allow the safe movement
of workers, equipment and materials.
(2)  Wherever practicable, aisles and passageways in work and
in storage areas shall be clearly delineated by floor markings.
Such markings shall be maintained in a clearly visible condition.
Provision for emergency escape
8.40
(1)  Emergency means of escape shall be provided from any
work area in which the malfunctioning of work processes could
create an immediate danger to workers, and where regular means of
exit could be rendered dangerous or unusable.
(2)  Emergency exits shall be designed and marked to provide
quick and unimpeded exit. Periodic emergency drills shall be held
to ensure awareness of the availability of such exits.
Door installations
8.42
(1)  Doors shall not open directly onto stairways, but shall
open onto floors or landings having a width in excess of the swing
of the doors.
(2)  Double-acting swing doors shall be designed and
installed to permit an adequate view through the doors.
(3)  Transparent glass doors, and glass panels, extending to
less than 12 inches (30 cm) from the floor, which could be
mistaken for doorways, shall be constructed of laminated, tempered
or wired safety glass, meeting the current requirements of the
National Building Code of Canada.
(4)  This regulation does not apply where the glass is fitted
with bars, or other devices or markings, which clearly indicate
the presence and position of such doors and panels.
Illumination
Illumination requirements
8.44
Adequate illumination shall be provided in all working areas, in
accordance with the requirements of section 13 of these
regulations.
Restricted Visibility
Restricted visibility
8.46
Workers shall not be permitted to work where the visibility within
a work area is restricted by the presence of smoke, steam or other
substances in the atmosphere, to the extent that it might result
in workers being injured, unless safe means of communication are
provided.
High Temperature Hazards
High temperature hazards
8.48
(1)  Open flames, steam pipes, steam hot water jets and other
high temperature sources shall be positioned or shielded to
prevent contact by workers, unless the exposed sources are
necessary to the work process.
(2)  Where such sources are necessarily unshielded, exposed
workers shall wear suitable personal protective equipment, in
accordance with the requirements of section 14.
Housekeeping
Slipping and tripping hazards
8.50
Floors, platforms, stairs and walkways used by workers shall be
maintained in a state of good repair and shall be kept free of
tripping and slipping hazards.
Spillage of liquids
8.52
Where the work process results in the spillage of liquids on the
floors of work areas and where this spillage could create a
slipping or other hazard, floor drains shall be installed, or
other suitable means adopted to control this hazard.
Removal of waste materials
8.54
Refuse, spills and waste materials shall not be allowed to
accumulate so as to constitute a hazard.
Use of compressed air for cleaning
8.56
(1)  Compressed air or steam shall not be used for blowing
dust, chips, or other substances, from equipment, materials and
structures, if any person could be exposed to the jet, or to the
material expelled or propelled thereby, or if a fire, explosion or
other injury or health hazard is likely to result.
(2)  Subject to clause (3) compressed air shall not be used
for blowing harmful or hazardous dusts or other harmful substances
from clothing being worn by workers. Where such clothing is
cleaned prior to leaving the work area, suitable cleaning
equipment shall be used.
(3)  Compressed air may be used in specially designated areas
for blowing dusts or other substances from clothing being worn by
workers, provided that
(a) the substances have an exposure limit greater than 1.0
mg/m
3
as established under section 5.48 of the Occupational Health and
Safety Regulation, and
(b) appropriate eye protection is worn, and
(c) the compressed air supply is limited to 10 psig (69
kPag), or
(d) safety nozzles which have the same pressure limiting
effect are used.
[am. B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. C, s. 1.]
Storage of Materials
Materials stacked or stored
8.58
(1)  No material and equipment shall be so placed, stacked or
stored as to constitute a hazard to workers.
(2)  Stacked materials or containers shall be stabilized when
necessary by interlocking, strapping or other effective means of
restraint.
Bulk-storage places
8.60
(1)  A worker must not enter any place where there is a
danger of entrapment in loose material, unless safe access has
been provided by catwalks, walkways, or other means, or unless the
worker is equipped with a safety belt and lifeline and is attended
by another worker who is stationed, equipped and capable of
immediately effecting a rescue.
(2)  Where the worker must be lifted through an opening of a
size that necessitates lifting in a vertical attitude, the worker
must wear a harness which will permit lifting in that manner. A
wrist harness alone is not acceptable for this purpose.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 1.]
Protection against falling materials
8.62
The area in which materials may be dropped, dumped or spilled,
shall be barricaded and protected by warning signs, to prevent the
inadvertent entry of workers.
Handrails and Guardrails
Handrails on stairways
8.64
(1)  Every flight of stairs having more than 4 risers shall
be equipped with handrails:
(a) on all open sides of stairways, and
(b) on one side of enclosed stairways 44 inches (1.12 m) or
less in width, and
(c) on both sides of enclosed stairways over 44 inches (1.12
m) in width.
(2)  The top of a handrail shall be at a height of 32 to 36
inches (81 cm to 91 cm)
2
above the stair tread, measured vertically from the nose of the
tread. The height shall not vary on any flight or succession of
flights of stairs.
(3)  Handrails on open-sided stairways shall be fitted with
midrails located approximately equidistant from the top of the
handrail and the nose of the stair tread.
Detour guardrails at stairways
8.66
When a stairway ends in direct proximity to dangerous traffic or
other hazards, detour guardrails shall be installed.
Where standard guardrails shall be installed
8.68
(1)  Guardrails shall be installed where any open-sided
floor, working platform, runway, walkway, or balcony is 4 feet
(1.22 m) or more above grade or floor level.
(2)  Guardrails shall be installed across glass panels, the
lower edges of which are less than 30 inches (76 cm) above the
levels of stair tread nosings, ramps, platforms, or landings.
(3)  Clause (2) does not apply where laminated, wired, or
tempered glass is installed having strength equivalent to a
guardrail, as required by regulation 8.70 (2).
Specifications for standard guardrails
8.70
(1)  A standard guardrail shall consist of a top rail,
approximately 42 inches (107 cm) above the floor level, a
toe-board as required by regulation 8.78, and an intermediate rail
centered at approximately the midpoint of the space between the
underside of the top rail and the upper edge of the toe-board. The
top and intermediate rails and toe-board shall be supported by
vertical members spaced not more than 8 feet (2.44 m) apart. Where
the guardrails are of wooden construction the top rail shall be
securely fastened to the top of the upright or at the top of the
upright on the side facing the protected area and the intermediate
rail shall be securely fastened to the side facing the protected
area.
(2)  Standard guardrails shall be designed to withstand a
static load of 200 pounds (890 N) applied in any direction at any
point on the top rail.
Guardrails around open tanks
8.72
When workers are employed around open tanks, 4 feet (1.22 m) or
more in depth, or containing liquids or harmful substances, the
sides of the tanks shall be constructed to extend at least 42
inches (107 cm) above any working platform, or standard guardrails
shall be provided to prevent workers from falling into the tanks.
Walkways over open tanks
8.74
Guardrails shall be installed on walkways over open tanks
containing harmful substances, or over open tanks 4 feet (1.22 m)
or more in depth.
Floor Openings
Floor openings
8.76
(1)  Openings or pits in floors, roofs, walkways or work
areas accessible to workers, shall be securely covered or fitted
with fixed, removable or collapsible guardrails conforming to the
requirements of regulation 8.70.
(2)  Where compliance with this regulation is impracticable
for vehicle service pits the perimeters shall be delineated by
paint of high visibility colour having a skid resistant surface.
Toe-Boards, Walkways, Platforms and Curbs
Toe-board requirements
8.78
(1)  All floor openings, and all permanent walkways and
platforms 10 feet (3 m) or more above grade, shall be equipped
with toe-boards.
(2)  Walkways and platforms at any height, when installed
over machinery and work areas, shall be equipped with toe-boards.
(3)  The top of the toe-board shall be approximately 4 inches
(10 cm) above the floor or platform, and the clearance between the
bottom of the toe-board and the floor or platform shall not exceed
1/2 inch (13 mm).
(4)  Where materials are stored nearby, toe-boards shall be
increased in height or solid or mesh panels of appropriate height
shall be installed to prevent such material from falling.
Walkway specifications
8.80
Walkways shall not be less than 20 inches (50 cm) in width. Safe
access to walkways shall be provided by means of fixed ladders or
stairways.
Elevated vehicular thoroughfares
8.82
Curbs shall be installed where practicable, wherever there is
danger of vehicles or other equipment running off the edge of an
elevated area.
Fire Protection
Equipment; training; special hazards
8.84
(1)  fire fighting equipment shall be maintained in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, or with the
instructions of the authority having jurisdiction.
3
(2)  All workers shall be given adequate instruction in those
fire prevention and emergency evacuation procedures that are
applicable to their place of employment.
(3)  Workers who are assigned to fire fighting duties shall
be given adequate training in fire fighting procedures applicable
to their place of employment.
(4)  Local fire departments shall be informed of any special
fire hazards which are peculiar to the employer's premises.
[am. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 8.]
Electrical Hazards
General requirements
8.86
Work on electrical installations and equipment and work in
proximity to energized electrical conductors shall be carried out
in accordance with regulations 16.100 and 16.102 and with sections
22 and 24 of these regulations.
4
Protection of Workers from Violence in the Workplace
Definition of violence
8.88
Violence means the attempted or actual exercise by a person, other
than a worker, of any physical force so as to cause injury to a
worker, and includes any threatening statement or behaviour which
gives a worker reasonable cause to believe that the worker is at
risk of injury.
[en. B.C. Reg. 266/93.]
Risk assessment
8.90
(1)  A risk assessment shall be performed in any place of
employment in which a risk of injury to workers from violence
arising out of their employment may be present.
(2)  The risk assessment shall include the consideration of
(a) previous experience in that place of employment,
(b) occupational experience in similar places of employment,
and
(c) the location and circumstances in which work will take
place.
[en. B.C. Reg. 266/93.]
Procedures and policies
8.92
Where a risk of injury to workers from violence is identified by
an assessment performed under regulation 8.90 the employer shall
(a) establish procedures, policies and work environment
arrangements to eliminate the risk to workers from violence,
(b) where elimination of the risk to workers is not possible,
establish procedures, policies and work environment arrangements
to minimize the risk to workers, and
(c) establish procedures for reporting, investigating and
documenting incidents of violence in accordance with the
requirements of Section 6.
[en. B.C. Reg. 266/93.]
Instruction of workers
8.94
(1)  The employer shall inform workers who may be exposed to
the risk of violence of the nature and extent of the risk.
(2)  The duty to inform workers, in clause (1), includes a
duty to provide information related to the risk of violence from
persons who have a history of violent behaviour and whom workers
are likely to encounter in the course of their work.
(3)  The employer shall instruct workers who may be exposed
to the risk of violence in
(a) the means for recognition of the potential for violence,
(b) the procedures, policies and work environment
arrangements which have been developed to minimize or effectively
control the risk to workers from violence,
(c) the appropriate response to incidents of violence,
including how to obtain assistance, and
(d) procedures for reporting, investigating and documenting
incidents of violence.
[en. B.C. Reg. 266/93.]
Response to incidents
8.96
(1)  Incidents of violence shall be reported and investigated
in accordance with the requirements of Section 6.
(2)  The employer shall ensure that corrective actions are
taken in response to incidents of violence in accordance with the
requirements of regulations 6.08 and 8.10.
(3)  The employer shall ensure that a worker reporting an
injury or adverse symptom as a result of an incident of violence
is advised to consult a physician of the worker's choice for
treatment or referral.
[en. B.C. Reg. 266/93.]
Fall Protection
Definitions
8.100
In these regulations:
"anchor"
means a secure point of attachment for a lifeline or lanyard;
"carabiner"
means a link with a gate that is normally closed or that
automatically closes, and is used to connect components of a
personal fall protection system;
"control zone"
means the area between an unguarded edge of a building or
structure and a line which is set back a safe distance;
"fall arrest system"
means a system that will stop a worker's fall before the worker
hits the surface below;
"fall protection system"
means any of the following when used to protect a worker from a
fall or minimize the risk from falling:
(a) guardrails;
(b) a safety belt or full body harness with a lanyard and/or
lifeline and an anchor, and their related equipment;
(c) a safety net;
(d) a control zone;
(e) a safety monitor with a control zone;
(f) other procedures acceptable to the Board;
"fall restraint system"
means a work positioning system to prevent a worker from falling
from a work position, or a travel restriction system such as
guardrails or a personal fall protection system to prevent a
worker from travelling to an edge from which the worker could
fall;
"free fall distance"
means the distance from the point where the worker would begin to
fall to the point where the fall arrest system would begin to
cause deceleration of the fall;
"full body harness"
means a body support device consisting of connected straps
designed to distribute a fall arresting force over at least the
thigh, shoulders and pelvis, with provision for attaching a
lanyard, lifeline or other components;
"horizontal lifeline system"
means a system composed of a synthetic or wire rope, installed
horizontally between two anchors, to which a worker attaches a
personal fall protection system;
"lanyard"
means a flexible line of webbing, or synthetic or wire rope, that
is used to secure a safety belt or full body harness to a lifeline
or anchor;
"lifeline"
means a synthetic or wire rope, rigged from one or more anchors,
to which a worker's lanyard or other part of a personal fall
protection system is attached;
"personal fall protection system"
means an individual worker's fall protection system, composed of a
safety belt or full body harness, and lanyard, lifeline, and any
other connecting equipment, that is used to secure the worker to
an individual anchor or to a horizontal lifeline system;
"safety belt"
means a body support device consisting of a strap with a means for
securing it about the waist and attaching it to other components;
"safety monitor system"
means a system in which a trained worker is designated to monitor
work activities in a control zone to ensure that work is done in a
manner that minimizes the potential for a worker to fall;
"safety strap"
means a pole strap or similar support strap, used with a work
positioning suspension belt, for climbing trees or structures such
as utility poles;
"shock absorber"
means a device intended to limit deceleration of a worker during
fall arrest;
"swing-fall hazard"
means the hazard to a worker of swinging and colliding with an
obstruction following a fall when connected to a lanyard or
lifeline that runs at an angle off vertical;
"total fall distance"
means the distance from the point where the worker would begin to
fall to the point where the fall would be stopped;
"unusual risk of injury"
means, with respect to the risk of injury from a fall, there is a
risk of injury greater than the risk of injury from impact on a
flat surface; for example, from a fall onto operating machinery or
into a tank of chemical.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
General Requirements
Obligation to use fall protection
8.102
(1)  Unless elsewhere provided for in these regulations, the
employer must ensure a fall protection system is used when work is
being done at a place
(a) from which a fall of 3 metres (10 feet) or more may
occur, or
(b) where a fall from a lesser height involves an unusual
risk of injury.
(2)  The employer must ensure that guardrails or other
similar means of fall restraint are used when practicable.
(3)  When compliance with subsection (2) is not practicable,
the employer must ensure that another fall restraint system is
used.
(4)  When the use of a fall restraint system is not
practicable, the employer must ensure that a fall arrest system is
used.
(5)  When the use of a fall arrest system is not practicable
or will result in a hazard greater than if the system was not
used, the employer must ensure
(a) a control zone is used in accordance with these
regulations,
(b) a safety monitor system with a control zone is used in
accordance with these regulations, or
(c) other procedures acceptable to the Board are followed.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Fall protection plan
8.104
(1)  The employer must have a written fall protection plan
for a workplace where
(a) work is being done at a location where workers are not
protected by permanent guardrails, and from which a fall of 7.5
metres (25 feet) or more may occur,
(b) the employer uses a safety monitor and control zone or
other work procedures as the means of fall protection, or
(c) the Board so directs, because a fall may involve an
unusual risk of injury.
(2)  The fall protection plan must be available at the
workplace before work with a risk of falling begins.
(3)  The plan must specify
(a) the fall hazards expected in each work area,
(b) the fall protection system or systems to be used in each
area,
(c) the procedures to assemble, maintain, inspect, use and
disassemble the fall protection system or systems, and
(d) the procedures for rescue of a worker who has fallen and
is suspended by a personal fall protection system or safety net,
but is unable to effect self rescue.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Instruction of workers
8.106
Before a worker is allowed into an area where a risk of falling
exists, the employer must ensure the worker is instructed in the
fall protection system for the area and the procedures to be
followed.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Guardrails
Temporary removal
8.108
(1)  When a guardrail must be removed to accommodate work,
(a) only that portion of the guardrail necessary to allow the
work to be done may be removed, and
(b) workers exposed to a fall hazard must be protected by
another fall protection system when the guardrail is absent.
(2)  The guardrail must be replaced
(a) when the unguarded area is left unattended, and
(b) after the work is completed if the circumstances still
require guardrails.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Harnesses and Safety Belts
Selection
8.110
(1)  A worker must wear a full body harness or other harness
acceptable to the Board when using a personal fall protection
system for fall arrest.
(2)  A worker must wear a safety belt, a full body harness or
other harness acceptable to the Board when using a personal fall
protection system for fall restraint.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Standards
8.112
(1)  A full body harness must meet the requirements of
Canadian Standards Association Standard CAN/CSA Z259.10-M90, Full
Body Harnesses, or other standard acceptable to the Board.
(2)  A safety belt must meet the requirements of Canadian
Standards Association Standard Z259.1-1995, Safety Belts and
Lanyards or other standard, appropriate to the type of belt
involved, that is acceptable to the Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Connecting Equipment
Lanyards
8.114
(1)  A lanyard must meet the requirements of Canadian
Standards Association Standard CAN/CSA-Z259.1-1995, Safety Belts
and Lanyards or other standard acceptable to the Board.
(2)  When a tool is used that could sever, abrade or burn a
lanyard or safety strap, the lanyard or safety strap must be made
of wire rope.
(3)  A worker working near an energized conductor or in
another work area where a conductive lanyard or safety strap
cannot be safely used, is exempt from subsection (2) provided that
two nonconductive lanyards or safety straps are used, or other
effective means of fall protection is used.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Snap hooks
8.116
A snap hook on a lanyard or lifeline must be self-locking.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Shock absorbers
8.118
(1)  A shock absorber must be used with
(a) a lanyard made of wire rope or other inelastic material
in a fall arrest system, and
(b) a wire rope vertical lifeline unless the lifeline is part
of a ladder safety device.
(2)  A shock absorber in a personal fall protection system
must meet the requirements of Canadian Standards Association
Standard CAN/CSA Z259.11-M92, Shock Absorbers for Personal Fall
Arrest Systems, or other standard acceptable to the Board.
(3)  When a shock absorber is used in a fall arrest system,
allowance must be made for the potential increase in the total
fall distance.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Carabiners
8.120
(1)  When in use, a carabiner or similar connecting hardware
must be secured to prevent inadvertent opening.
(2)  Carabiners, links and rings must
(a) have an ultimate load capacity of at least 22 kilonewtons
(5 000 pounds), and
(b) be clearly marked with their load capacity, and with a
means of identifying the manufacturer.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Other equipment
8.122
(1)  A descent device, harness, safety strap, rope grab,
shepherd's hook, connecting hardware, shock absorber and other
fall protection equipment used as part of a fall protection system
and not covered by one of the standards referenced in these
regulations must be of a type acceptable to the Board.
(2)  A Prusik sling may be employed in place of a rope grab
only if it is used in a manner acceptable to the Board.
(3)  A triple sliding hitch may not be used as part of a
personal fall protection system.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Anchors
General requirements
8.124
(1)  A lifeline, or a lanyard used without a lifeline, must
be secured to an anchor.
(2)  An anchor plate with multiple attachment points designed
to support combinations of suspension lines, tie-back lines and
lifelines must be certified in writing by a professional engineer.
(3)  A temporary anchor must be removed upon completion of
the work for which it was intended.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
For vertical lifelines — fall restraint
8.126
(1)  In a fall restraint system, a temporary anchor for a
vertical lifeline, or for a lanyard used without a lifeline, must
have an ultimate load capacity of at least 3.5 kilonewtons (800
pounds) in any direction in which a load may be applied.
(2)  In a fall restraint system, a permanent anchor for a
vertical lifeline or for a lanyard used without a lifeline must
meet the requirements for a fall arrest anchor in regulation
8.128.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
For vertical lifelines — fall arrest
8.128
In a fall arrest system, an anchor for a vertical lifeline or for
a lanyard used without a lifeline must
(a) have an ultimate load capacity of at least 22 kilonewtons
(5 000 pounds), in any direction required to resist a fall, and,
(b) when permanent, be certified in writing by a professional
engineer as having the required load capacity.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Vertical Lifelines
Standards
8.130
A vertical lifeline must meet the requirements of Canadian
Standards Association Standard Z259.2-M1979, Fall Arresting
Devices, Personnel Lowering Devices, and Lifelines, or other
standard acceptable to the Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Rope strength
8.132
A vertical lifeline must have a breaking strength specified by the
manufacturer of at least 27 kilonewtons (6 000 pounds).
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Knots and splices
8.134
(1)  A vertical lifeline must be free of knots or splices
except at its termination.
(2)  A termination knot or splice must not reduce the
breaking strength of the lifeline to less than 22 kilonewtons (5
000 pounds).
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Prohibited use of wire rope
8.136
A wire rope vertical lifeline must not be used when there is
potential for contact with energized electrical conductors.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Protection against abrasion
8.138
(1)  A vertical lifeline must be effectively protected at
points of attachment and elsewhere, as necessary, to prevent
chafing or abrasion caused by contact with sharp or rough edges.
(2)  When a tool is used that could sever, abrade or burn a
lifeline, the lifeline must be made of wire rope.
(3)  A worker working near an energized electrical conductor
or in another work area where a conductive lifeline cannot be
safely used, is exempt from subsection (2) provided that another
effective means of fall protection is used.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Rope length
8.140
(1)  A vertical lifeline must extend to within 1.2 metres (4
feet) of ground level or other safe lower surface.
(2)  The suspended length of a vertical lifeline must not
exceed 91 metres (300 feet), unless previously authorized by the
Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Free fall limits
8.142
(1)  A personal fall arrest system without a shock absorber
must limit the free fall of a worker to 1.2 metres (4 feet).
(2)  A personal fall arrest system with a shock absorber may
allow a free fall of up to 2 metres (6.5 feet), or the limit
specified in the manufacturer's instructions, whichever is less.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Swing-fall hazard
8.144
A vertical lifeline must be installed and used in a manner that
minimizes the swing-fall hazard.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Independent anchorage
8.146
Each vertical lifeline used for fall arrest must be secured to an
independent point of anchorage.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Number of workers
8.148
Only one worker may be attached to a vertical lifeline, unless the
vertical lifeline is part of a ladder safety device.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Ladder safety devices
8.150
A lifeline used as part of a ladder safety device must meet the
requirements of American National Standards Institute Standard
A14.3-1984-For Ladders-Fixed-Safety Requirements, or other
standard acceptable to the Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Double line systems
8.152
A double line system, where the lifeline and equipment suspension
line are rigged through a common control descent device, must not
be used unless the system and procedures for its use are
acceptable to the Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Horizontal Lifeline Systems
Temporary systems for fall restraint
8.154
A temporary horizontal lifeline system for fall restraint must
provide an ultimate load capacity of at least 3.5 kilonewtons (800
pounds) for each worker connected to it.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Temporary systems for fall arrest
8.156
Unless certified by a professional engineer in accordance with the
requirements for a permanent system as outlined in regulation
8.158, a temporary horizontal lifeline system used for fall arrest
must meet the following requirements:
(a) the horizontal lifeline must be a minimum 12 mm (1/2
inch) diameter wire rope having a breaking strength specified by
the manufacturer of at least 89 kilonewtons (20 000 pounds);
(b) the horizontal lifeline must be free of splices except
for the end terminations;
(c) connecting hardware such as shackles and turnbuckles must
have an ultimate load capacity of at least 71 kilonewtons (16 000
pounds);
(d) the span must be at least 6 metres (20 feet) and not more
than 18 metres (60 feet);
(e) end anchors must have an ultimate load capacity of at
least 71 kilonewtons (16 000 pounds);
(f) the horizontal lifeline must have an unloaded sag of
approximately the span length divided by 60;
(g) the elevation of the line at any point must be at least 1
metre (39 inches) above the working surface;
(h) the free fall distance must be limited to 1.2 metres (4
feet);
(i) a minimum of 3.5 metres (12 feet) of unobstructed
clearance must be available below the working surface;
(j) no more than three workers may be secured to the
horizontal lifeline;
(k) the horizontal lifeline must be positioned so it does not
impede the safe movement of workers.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Permanent systems
8.158
Before a permanent horizontal lifeline system is used the employer
must ensure that a professional engineer supplies to the workplace
a signed and dated drawing and instructions for the lifeline
system showing
(a) the layout in plan and elevation, including anchor
locations, installation specifications, anchor design and
detailing,
(b) horizontal lifeline system specifications, including
permissible free fall distance, clearance to obstructions below,
and rope size, breaking strength, termination details and initial
sag or tension,
(c) the number of workers permitted to connect to the
lifeline, and maximum arrest force to each worker, and
(d) written certification that the lifeline system has been
installed in accordance with the design documents.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Inspection and Maintenance
General requirement
8.160
Safety belts, harnesses, lanyards, lifelines, connecting hardware,
anchors and other similar devices must be
(a) inspected by a qualified person before use on a
workshift,
(b) kept free from substances and conditions that could
contribute to their deterioration, and
(c) maintained in good working order.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Removal from service
8.162
(1)  A device or part that is defective in condition or
function must be removed from service.
(2)  After a fall protection system has arrested the fall of
a worker, it must
(a) be removed from service, and
(b) not be returned to service until it has been inspected
and recertified for use by the manufacturer or its authorized
agent, or by a professional engineer.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Safety Nets
Standards
8.164
A safety net must be designed, installed, tested and inspected in
accordance with the requirements of American National Standards
Institute Standard A10.11-1989, for Construction and Demolition
Operations — Personnel and Debris Nets, or other standard
acceptable to the Board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Supporting structures
8.166
The employer must ensure the supporting structure to which a
personnel safety net is attached is certified in writing by a
professional engineer as being capable of withstanding any load
the net is likely to impose on the structure.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Exemption for firefighters
8.168
Regulations 8.164 and 8.166 do not apply to rescue nets used by
firefighters.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Control Zones and Procedures
Prohibited use of control zones
8.170
Use of a control zone is not permitted as the fall protection
system
(a) on a working surface where the slope of that surface
exceeds 4 vertical in 12 horizontal, or
(b) on skeletal structure work, or
(c) for scaffold erection and removal.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Width of the control zone
8.172
(1)  The width of the control zone must be at least 2 metres
(6 1/2 feet).
(2)  Additional distance must be added to the minimum width
of a control zone, with regard to whether
(a) the working surface is slippery or sloped,
(b) the work is carried out at an elevation relative to the
unguarded edge, and
(c) the risk is increased by the use of equipment near the
control zone.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Work outside the control zone
8.174
When workers will at all times remain further from the unguarded
edge than the width of the control zone, no other fall protection
system need be used.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Work near the control zone
8.176
(1)  If a worker will be working within 2 metres (6.5 feet)
of the control zone, the line defining the control zone must be
established by a raised warning line or other equally effective
means at all times during such work.
(2)  A raised warning line marking the edge of a control zone
must be
(a) a line of high visibility material, or a line flagged or
clearly marked with high visibility materials at intervals not
exceeding 2 metres (6.5 feet), and
(b) rigged and maintained to be between 0.85 and 1.15 metres
(34 inches and 45 inches) above the working surface.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Safety monitor for work in the control zone
8.178
(1)  When permitted by regulation 8.102, a safety monitor
system with a control zone may be used as the means of fall
protection for workers in the control zone.
(2)  The duty of the safety monitor is to ensure that the
work activity in the control zone is performed in accordance with
the fall protection plan and in a manner that minimizes the
potential for a worker to fall.
(3)  A safety monitor must
(a) be experienced in the work overseen and trained in the
role of safety monitor,
(b) be present at all times when a worker is in the control
zone,
(c) have complete authority over the work as it relates to
the prevention of falls,
(d) engage in no other duties while acting as the safety
monitor,
(e) be located so as to have a clear view of the work,
(f) be able to have normal voice communication with the
workers being protected, and
(g) be instantly distinguishable from other workers.
(4)  Only workers directly required for the work at hand may
be inside the control zone.
(5)  A safety monitor may monitor a maximum of 8 workers.
(6)  The fall protection plan for the workplace must specify
the name of each safety monitor and contain a record of the
monitor's training for this role.
[en. B.C. Reg. 7/96, s. 3.]
Section 10
Repealed
10.00-10.18
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 11 — Underwater Diving
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Repealed
11.00-11.20
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Reports of Diving Accidents
Accident/incident reports
11.22
(1)  An accident/incident report as required by regulation
6.06 shall be submitted to the Board as soon as possible if the
following occurs during any diving operation:
(a) death;
(b) injury;
(c) convulsions or serious impairment of consciousness during
or after a dive;
(d) decompression sickness requiring treatment;
(e) air embolism;
(f) any serious mishap, even though the diver escapes actual
injury, or a series of incidents which render equipment or
procedures suspect prior to, during, or after the diving
operation.
(2)  The facts shall be established with care and recorded as
soon after the accident/incident as possible and the report shall
include
(a) the dive profile, and
(b) all relevant details, however remote.
(3)  In the event of any diving accident/incident
(a) the Board reserves the right to take temporary possession
of, and investigate, all equipment related to the diving
operation, and
(b) the equipment shall not be tampered with or altered in
any manner until authorization has been received from the Board.
Section 12
Repealed
12.01-12.25
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 13 — Health Hazards and Work Environment Controls
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Repealed
13.01-13.17
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Blanking requirements
13.19
(1)  Before a worker enters a confined space
(a) piping containing hazardous substances or substances
under pressure or so located as to allow hazardous substances to
enter such space shall be disconnected, blanked or blinded off, or
(b) where it is impractical to employ blanks or blinds, as in
welded piping systems
5
, written work procedures shall be developed and implemented to
ensure equivalent protection to all workers exposed to the hazard,
and
(c) the closing of a valve on any line will not be accepted
as a substitute for blanking or blinding.
(2)  When blanking or blinding a piping system, blanks or
blinds shall be of sufficient strength and so installed as to
provide adequate safety for the particular conditions of
anticipated pressure, temperature and service.
(3)  Visual indication that a blank or blind has been
installed shall be provided at the point of installation.
(4)  When required, gaskets shall be installed on the
pressure side of blanks or blinds and flanges shall be tightened
to make the blanks or blinds effective.
(5)  Where threaded lines are used threaded plugs or caps
shall be used to blank the lines.
(6)  Records shall be kept which identify the blanked lines
and the locations of blanks or blinds.
Repealed
13.21-13.35
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 8/96, s. 1.]
Repealed
13.37-13.73
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Lighting requirements
13.77
Illumination in industrial, commercial and retail establishments
shall be in compliance with the Occupational Environment
Regulations made under the
Factories Act
, 1966
6
as amended by Order-in-Council 722, approved and ordered February
26, 1974, published in the Gazette as B.C. Reg. 128/74.
Emergency lighting
13.79
(1)  Where failure of the regular lighting system would
create conditions dangerous to the health and safety of the
workers, an emergency lighting system shall be provided for the
workplace and the exit routes.
(2)  Emergency lighting systems shall provide dependable
illumination to enable the carrying out of all emergency measures
including
(a) emergency shutdown procedures, and
(b) evacuation of all workers from the premises.
Repealed
13.81-13.122
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 14
Repealed
14.02-14.28
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Repealed
14.30-14.50
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 43/96.]
Section 16 — Machinery, Equipment and Industrial Processes
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Repealed
16.02-16.96
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Maintenance of Machinery and Equipment
Definitions; safety
16.98
(1)  For the purpose of regulations 16.98, 16.100 and 16.102
the following definitions apply:
"control device"
means the device controlling the flow of power to the machinery or
equipment and includes, but is not limited to, switches, circuit
breakers, valves and clutches. In the case of electrical controls
it means the device controlling the flow of current to the branch
circuit which supplies power to the machinery or equipment.
Individual control buttons or switches in control circuits are
excluded;
"maintenance"
means the work of keeping machinery or equipment in a safe
operating condition and includes but is not limited to repairing,
adjusting, cleaning, lubricating and the clearing of obstructions
to the normal flow of material.
(2)  Except as permitted by clause (3) the maintenance of
moving machinery or equipment is prohibited when contact with
moving parts could injure workers.
(3)  The following precautions shall be taken when it is
essential to the process that the equipment remain in operation
(a) only that part of the machinery which is vital to the
process shall be energized,
(b) workers engaged in such operations shall be fully trained
and authorized to carry out the process, and
(c) a safe procedure shall be established in each instance
and the procedure shall be readily available and, where practical,
shall be posted adjacent to the machinery.
Requirements prior to working on machinery or equipment
16.100
(1)  Except as provided by regulation 16.98, when machinery
or equipment is shut down for maintenance or repairs, no work
shall be carried out
(a) until all parts, extensions and attachments have been
secured against inadvertent movement,
(b) when the nature of the work exposes workers to mechanical
hazards or harmful substances, until the hazardous conditions have
been controlled, and
(c) until all control devices have been locked out in
accordance with regulation 16.102.
(2)  When workers are required to work in any confined space
which is connected to a system of material conveyance, the control
devices shall be locked in the inoperative position and the
requirements of regulation 13.19 shall be complied with.
Lockout Procedures
Lockout requirements
16.102
(1)  (a) Except as provided by regulation 16.98, when
circumstances require the application of lockout procedures the
control devices shall be secured in the inoperative position by
the use of locks. Such locks shall be marked or tagged to identify
the person applying them. Written lockout procedures shall be made
available to all workers who are required to work on the machinery
or equipment.
(b) Locks issued to an individual worker shall be operable
only by that worker's key and by a master key for emergency use,
per clause (4) (a), which shall be kept securely under a senior
shift supervisor's control. Combination locks shall not be used.
(c) Where a number of locks are issued to a worker for his
sole use they may be mastered to a single key.
(2)  Each worker who works on the machinery or equipment
requiring lockout procedures shall be responsible for
(a) locking the control devices, except as provided by clause
(5) of this regulation, and
(b) removal of his own locks on the completion of his work.
(3)  The person applying the first lock in a lockout
procedure shall forthwith ensure that the locked out machinery or
equipment cannot be operated.
(4)  (a) Locks shall only be removed by the person or persons
who installed them, or in emergency, by the senior shift
supervisor on duty who shall first make every effort to contact
the individual who put the lock on, and who shall then ensure that
the machinery or equipment can be operated safely.
(b) Workers coming on shift shall place their own locks on
all control devices before the individuals going off shift remove
their locks, or shift supervisors may lock out the control devices
during shift changes to allow workers going off shift to remove
their locks.
(5)  The use of a key box system as outlined hereunder is
acceptable when multiple lockout points are involved:
(a) 2 qualified workers, one of whom may be a supervisor,
shall be responsible for
(i)  locking out the multiple control devices, each using a
set of locks, keyed alike, but not keyed to the other set,
(ii)  completing, signing and posting the checklist adjacent
to the key box,
(iii)  placing in the key box the keys for the locks which
are affixed to the multiple control points, and
(iv)  locking out the key box using personal locks or other
positive sealing devices acceptable to the Board.
(b) All other workers who are required to work on the
machinery or equipment shall also lock out the key box using
personal locks before commencing maintenance or repair work.
(c) On the completion of the work all workers referred to in
subclause (5) (b) shall remove their locks from the key box.
(d) The 2 qualified workers who locked out the equipment
shall then remove their locks from the key box and from the
multiple lockout points.
(e) A written key box lockout procedure shall be kept posted
at the key box location.
(6)  Clause (2) does not apply where systems are controlled
by a central control operator. The operator shall lock out the
central control and record the portion locked out and the time. He
shall re-energize the system on the instructions of the person who
requested the de-energization, who has first determined that it is
safe to do so.
(7)  Where motor disconnect switches are installed for
lockout purposes they shall simultaneously disconnect both the
motor and motor control circuits from their sources of supply.
Such motor disconnect switches shall be readily accessible and
where installed in elevated positions, access shall be by means of
a permanent ladder or by a stairway to a platform which conforms
to regulation 8.68.
(8)  Existing exemptions from lockout requirements, which
were granted under the authority of regulation 16.102 (7) (b) of
the regulations which came into effect on May 1, 1972, will expire
on July 1, 1978.
(9)  Applications for renewal of exemptions shall be
submitted to the Board in writing by April 1, 1978 and by that
date on each year thereafter. Such applications shall include
(a) a copy of the alternative procedure currently in effect,
(b) proof that the alternative procedure is effectively
enforced, and
(c) confirmation that the alternative procedure is endorsed
by the Industrial Health & Safety Committee.
(10)  Exemptions may be revoked at any time for failure to
enforce the alternative procedure, and, if revoked, will not be
renewed.
[am. B.C. Reg. 374/79, ss. 18, 19, 20.]
Repealed
16.104-16.124
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Mobile Chippers
Hand fed mobile chippers
16.126
(1)  Every hand fed mobile chipper shall be equipped with
(a) a barrier, located on the feed side of the rotor,
designed to prevent the ejection of chipped material from the feed
side of the chipper, and
(b) a guard or device of a design acceptable to the Board,
which will prevent the operator from contacting the rotor.
(2)  Clause (1) (b) does not apply to small mobile chippers
equipped with vertical hoppers which feed material by gravity to
the rotor, provided that the hopper is of such depth as to prevent
the operator from contacting the rotor. The depth shall in no case
be less than 36 inches (91 cm), measured from the lip of the
hopper to the periphery of the rotor.
Repealed
16.128-16.130
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Sections 17 to 21
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 22 — Electrical Systems
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Definitions
22.02
For the purpose of Sections 22 and 24 of these regulations the
following definitions apply:
"approved"
as applied to electrical equipment means electrical equipment as
defined in the 12th Edition of the Canadian Electrical Code and
amended for use in British Columbia;
"conductor"
means a wire or cable or other form of metal, installed for the
purpose of conveying electric current from one piece of electrical
equipment to another or to ground;
"electrical equipment"
means any apparatus, appliance conduit, cable, device, fitting,
fixture, instrument, insulator, machinery, material, pipe, pole,
plant, structure, wire, works, or other things used for, or
designed or intended for use for or in connection with, the
generation, transformation, transmission, distribution, supply,
control, or use of electrical energy for any purpose, and includes
any assembly or combination of materials or thing used, or
intended to be used or adapted, to serve any purpose or function
when connected to a source of electrical energy;
"electrical installation"
means the installation of any system of wiring in or upon any
land, building or premises from the point or points where electric
power or energy is delivered therein or thereon by the supply
authority or from any other source of supply to the point or
points where such power or energy can be used therein or thereon
by any electrical equipment and shall include the connection of
any such wiring with any of the said equipment, and any part of
the wiring system aforesaid, and shall include the maintenance,
alteration, extension and repair of such wiring;
"hazardous area"
means an area where tree limbs are so located beside or above
energized high voltage conductors as to present a hazard of
contact with the conductors during the tree trimming process;
"high voltage"
means an alternating or direct current potential of 751 volts or
over, between conductors or between conductors and ground;
"live line caution tag"
means a tag issued by the owner of an electrical system as part of
a procedure to inform their systems-operating personnel of work
being done in proximity to energized high voltage conductors;
"low voltage"
means any voltage from 31 to 750 volts inclusive;
"qualified person"
means one familiar with the construction and operation of the
equipment and with the hazards involved.
Authorized workers
22.04
Only qualified persons shall work or be authorized to work on
electrical installations and equipment.
Working on Energized Equipment
Gloves and shields
22.06
(1)  Subject to clause (2) of this regulation, rubber gloves,
"cover up" and other necessary safety equipment shall be used by
workers engaged in work on energized electrical conductors or
equipment operating at more than 250 volts to ground. Refer to
regulation 14.04 regarding medic-alert bracelets.
(2)  The maximum voltage permitted for the use of rubber
gloves and rubber equipment while working on energized electrical
conductors or equipment, shall be 3 000 volts to ground.
[am. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 26]
Voltages in excess of 3 000
22.08
No worker shall work on any energized electrical conductors or
equipment operating at more than 3 000 volts, unless procedures
satisfactory to the Board are used, or the workers are provided
with and trained in the use of special tools which are approved
for use by an authority acceptable to the Board.
2 man requirements for voltages in excess of 750
22.10
(1)  No work shall be done on the energized parts of any
electrical conductor or equipment operating at more than 750 volts
AC, or 300 volts DC, to ground, unless 2 or more qualified persons
are present while the work is being performed.
(2)  This regulation does not apply to the fusing of
transformers, where such transformer fuses are accessible without
passing or reaching past electrical conductors or appliances
carrying more than 250 volts, nor does it apply to work done with
special tools which are designed for the purpose, and which are
used by qualified persons who have been trained in the use of such
tools.
Labour requirements in tunnels and manholes
22.12
In tunnels and manholes no work shall be done on any energized
electrical conductor or equipment operating at more than 250
volts, unless at least 2 qualified persons are present.
Guarding of energized lines or equipment
22.14
(1)  No work shall be done in or about any place or structure
in proximity to energized electrical conductors or equipment,
which are normally isolated by position or elevation unless guards
are provided to prevent contact by any worker, or by any equipment
or tools being handled or used.
(2)  Guards shall be constructed to specifications of an
authority acceptable to the Board.
High voltage warning signs and notices
22.16
Notices reading "Danger—High Voltage" shall be placed in proximity
to electrical equipment accessible to workers, and operating at
over 750 volts AC, or 300 volts DC, to ground.
Working on De-energized Equipment
De-energizing procedures
22.20
(1)  Before work is commenced on any part of an electrical
power system which, for reasons of safety, must be handled in a
de-energized condition, the worker in charge shall ensure that the
part of the system being worked on is de-energized and grounded,
and that the controls are locked out, in accordance with
regulations 16.100 and 16.102.
(2)  When the control devices are not under the direct
control of the worker, he shall receive assurance from the person
in charge of the control devices that the work may safely proceed.
Such assurances shall be recorded by the person giving the
assurance.
(3)  Before commencing work on the de-energized part of the
system the worker in charge shall ensure that all workers are
protected against re-energization.
(4)  The system shall not be re-energized except on the
instructions of the worker who had requested the de-energizing, or
a supervisor, who has first determined that it is safe to do so.
Miscellaneous Requirements
Tunnels, manholes and spaces
22.22
All tunnels, manholes, and other confined spaces containing
electrical conductors or equipment shall be cleared of free water,
and properly ventilated and tested for dangerous gas levels before
a worker enters. The requirements of regulations 13.05 to 13.19
inclusive shall be complied with.
Unsound poles or structures
22.24
(1)  Before a worker starts to climb or support himself on
any pole or structure, or before any work is done which will
affect the stability of the pole or structure
(a) the pole or structure shall be tested for soundness,
(b) when any doubt as to soundness exists, the pole or
structure shall be effectively guyed or otherwise supported before
any wires or cables are changed, and
(c) guys or supports shall be left in place until workers are
clear of the pole.
(2)  Pike poles alone shall not be considered adequate
support.
Obstructions on poles
22.26
(1)  Except as provided by clause (2) mail boxes, signs,
clothes lines or other obstructions or hazards, shall not be
allowed on, or in proximity to poles upon which workers are
required to work.
(2)  Aluminum pole identification tags may be placed on the
side which a worker will face, when climbing, at a height above
grade not exceeding 66 inches (1.7 m).
Access to equipment; storage of flammable material
22.28
(1)  Passageways, including aisles and walkways, and working
space around electrical equipment shall not be used for storage
and shall be kept clear of obstructions and so arranged as to give
authorized persons ready access to all parts requiring attention.
(2)  Flammable material shall not be stored or placed in
dangerous proximity to electrical equipment.
Identification of controls
22.30
All electrical distribution switches and controls shall be clearly
marked to indicate the machinery or equipment which they serve.
Tool and equipment grounding
22.32
(1)  Exposed non-current carrying metal parts of portable
tools and equipment shall be effectively grounded.
(2)  Clause (1) does not apply if
(a) the equipment is of the double insulated type and is
identified as such,
(b) the equipment is supplied through an isolating
transformer having an ungrounded secondary of not more than 50
volts output,
(c) the equipment is supplied through a ground fault circuit
interrupter, or
(d) the equipment is supplied from a battery of not over 50
volts output.
(3)  Portable tools and equipment required to be grounded and
not permanently connected to the wiring system, shall be
effectively grounded by the use of approved 3 wire cords and 3
prong polarized plugs inserted in grounded polarized receptacles.
Prohibition of metal ladders
22.34
Metal ladders, or wire reinforced wooden ladders, shall not be
used in proximity to energized electrical equipment, except where
authorized by the Board or an authority acceptable to the Board.
Acceptable equipment
22.36
All dielectric strength test equipment and equipment used to
detect faulty wiring, operating at potentials greater than 50
volts AC or DC, shall be of a type acceptable to the British
Columbia Ministry of Labour, Safety Engineering Services Division,
Electrical Safety Branch and shall bear evidence of certification
by the Canadian Standards Association.
[am. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 27.]
Protective equipment for work on energized conductors
22.38
Electrical protective equipment including rubber blankets, hose,
hoods, gloves and live-line tools and equipment shall be of types
approved by an authority acceptable to the Board and shall be
used, stored, tested and maintained in accordance with the
regulations of that authority.
7
Section 24 — Proximity to Overhead Power Lines
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Definitions
24.00
Terms used in this section are defined in regulation 22.02.
General Requirements
Minimum clearance
24.02
(1)  (a) No worker shall be employed, no material shall be
piled, stored or otherwise handled, no scaffolding erected or
dismantled, nor any tools, machinery or equipment operated within
the specified minimum distances from any energized high voltage
electrical conductor capable of energizing the material or
equipment, unless workers are protected in accordance with this
section.
(b) The following minimum distances shall be maintained:
VOLTAGE
MINIMUM DISTANCE
(Phase to Phase)
(Feet)
(Metres)
751 V to 75 kV
10
(3)
Over 75 kV to 250 kV
15
(4.6)
Over 250 kV to 550 kV
20
(6.1)
(c) Where overhead electric conductors are encountered in
proximity to a work area, the employer shall be responsible for
(i)  ascertaining the voltage and minimum clearance distance
required,
(ii)  maintaining the minimum clearance distance, and
(iii)  ensuring that the requirements of clause (1) are
complied with.
(d) This regulation does not apply to qualified persons using
safe work procedures acceptable to the Board nor to workers under
their close supervision.
(2)  When work is being carried out in proximity to energized
electrical conductors operating at 750 volts or less, such work
shall be performed in a manner to prevent contact by any worker
with the energized conductors.
Assurance In Writing
Assurance of safe conditions
24.04
(1)  When the minimum distance specified in regulation 24.02
cannot be maintained because of the circumstances of work or
inadvertent movement of persons or equipment, an assurance in
writing, signed by the person or persons controlling the
electrical system shall be obtained before any work commences in
proximity to energized conductors. This assurance shall state
that, during the time the work is to be carried on, the electrical
conductors will be
(a) de-energized,
(b) effectively guarded against contact, or
(c) displaced or re-routed from the work area.
(2)  (a) Unqualified persons shall not touch or handle
electrical guarding. Equipment shall not be intentionally allowed
to contact such guarding.
8
(b) Whenever guarding is used a qualified safety watcher
shall be posted to control the approach of equipment and loads and
to stop immediately the movement when contact with guarding
appears possible.
(3)  The written assurance shall be available for inspection
at the work project, and shall be made known to all persons who
may be permitted access to the area within which equipment or
materials are to be moved or stored.
[am. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 28.]
Energized Conductors
Alternative precautions
24.06
(1)  When the high voltage conductors cannot be de-energized,
re-routed or effectively guarded, no work shall commence until
approval is obtained from the Board and the following precautions
are taken:
(a) the area, within which equipment or materials are to be
moved, shall be barricaded and supervised to restrict entry to
only those workers necessarily engaged in the work;
(b) a qualified person shall be designated as a watchman
whose sole task, during the movement of any equipment or material,
shall be
(i)  to observe the relative position of the moving equipment
or material and the electrical conductors, and
(ii)  to order the movement stopped at any time that contact
appears probable, or when conditions arise which prevent the
watchman from properly performing his task;
(c) positive means shall be provided for the watchman to give
a clear, understandable stop signal to the equipment operator, and
the watchman shall give the stop signal by no other means;
(d) while equipment or material is in motion in an area in
proximity to energized electrical conductors, no person other than
equipment operators shall touch any part of the equipment or
material;
(e) no workman shall move a load, or any rigging line, from
its position of natural suspension, when it is in proximity to an
energized electrical conductor.
(2)  Where emergency action is required in proximity to
energized high voltage electrical conductors, only qualified and
properly instructed workers shall be exposed to the danger of
contact with the electrical conductors. Every possible effort
shall be made to control the hazards while work is being done,
including the following precautions:
(a) entry into the area within which equipment or materials
are to be moved shall be restricted to those necessarily engaged
in the work;
(b) a qualified person shall be designated as a watchman
whose sole task shall be
(i)  to observe the relative position of the moving equipment
or material and the electrical conductors, and
(ii)  to order the movement stopped at any time that contact
appears probable or when conditions arise which prevent him from
properly performing his task;
(c) positive means shall be provided for the watchman to give
a clear, understandable stop signal to the equipment operator and
the stop signal shall be given by no other means;
(d) while equipment or material is in motion in an area in
proximity to energized electrical conductors, no persons other
than equipment operators shall touch any part of the equipment or
material;
(e) the equipment operator shall operate the controls from
the seat provided on the equipment or from a metal stand which is
integral with the frame of the equipment and clear of the ground,
or from a metallic mat, bonded to the frame of the machine and
located on the ground beside the machine. In no case shall he
operate the controls while standing on the ground.
Tree Trimming Near Energized Conductors
Preliminary inspection; limits of approach; tools
24.08
(1)  Every area in which tree trimming in proximity to
energized high voltage overhead conductors is intended shall first
be inspected by a qualified person, authorized by the owner of the
electrical system, for the purpose of identifying hazardous areas.
(2)  No trimming shall be done in areas identified as
hazardous unless
(a) the necessary "Live Line Caution Tag" has been taken out
by a qualified person authorized to do so by the owner of the
electrical system,
(b) an authorized, qualified person is in charge at the work
site,
(c) the workers are qualified tree trimmers, and
(d) the limits of approach specified in clause (3) are
maintained.
(3)  Under no circumstances of work or inadvertent motion
shall workers, other than qualified electrical workers, come
closer to energized conductors than the following limits of
approach:
VOLTAGE
MINIMUM DISTANCE
(Phase to Phase)
(Feet)
(Metres)
751 V to 20 kV
3
(0.9)
20 kV to 30 kV
4
(1.2)
30 kV to 75 kV
5
(1.5)
75 kV to 250 kV
10
(3)
250 kV to 325 kV
15
(4.6)
325 kV to 550 kV
20
(6.1)
(4)  A tree or limb in contact with an energized high voltage
conductor shall be removed by a qualified person, authorized by
the owner of the electrical system involved.
(5)  All tree trimming vehicle mounted aerial devices shall
be in conformity with the requirements of regulation 32.36.
(6)  Insulated hand tools shall be used wherever practicable
and shall be in conformity with the requirements of regulation
22.38.
(7)  Mobile chippers shall be equipped with safety devices as
required by regulation 16.126.
Section 25
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 26 — Mobile Equipment
Repealed
26.00-26.04
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Braking and steering requirements
26.06
(1)  (a) Mobile equipment, except forklift trucks, shall be
equipped with braking systems meeting the requirements of the
following applicable Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)
Recommended Practices, or other standards acceptable to the Board:
SAE J1152 Minimum Performance Criteria for Braking Systems for
Off-Highway Rubber-Tired, Self Propelled Construction Machines;
SAE J1026a Minimum Performance Criteria for Braking Systems for
Crawler Tractors and Crawler Loaders;
SAE J1178 Minimum Performance Criteria for Braking Systems for
Rubber-Tired Skidders;
SAE J1136 Minimum Performance Criteria for Braking Systems for
Self-Propelled, Smooth Steel Wheel, Pneumatic Tired or Multiple
Projection Steel Wheel Rollers and Compactors;
SAE J1224 Minimum Performance Criteria for Braking Systems for New
Off-Highway Dumpers.
(b) Mobile equipment including forklift trucks manufactured
on or before January 1, 1980 may remain in service except when, in
the opinion of the Board, modification is required to ensure the
safety of workers.
(2)  Forklift trucks shall be equipped with braking systems
meeting the requirements of Section 408 of ANSI B56.1-1975, or
other standards acceptable to the Board.
(3)  All mobile equipment shall be fitted with a parking
system. The use of gas or fluid pressure for maintaining
application of the parking system is prohibited.
(4)  When mobile equipment depends on engine power for
stopping and power failure will result in loss of adequate
stopping capability, supplementary means shall be provided to
enable the operator to bring the equipment to a safe stop.
(5)  When any wheeled mobile equipment depends on engine
power for steering and power failure will result in loss of
adequate directional control, a supplementary power source shall
be provided for the steering system to enable the operator to
steer the machine to a safe stop. Such installations shall conform
to standards acceptable to the Board.
(6)  Steering wheel knobs other than those of the mushroom
type shall not be used on any mobile equipment on which the
steering gear feeds back road wheel reactions to the steering
wheel. The knobs shall lie completely within the periphery of the
wheels.
(7)  All mobile equipment manufactured after January 1, 1979
shall be provided with protection against engine starter
engagement when the engine is coupled to the wheels or tracks.
(8)  Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Board
that compliance with clauses (1), (3) or (4) is not feasible or is
unnecessary, the mobile equipment may be exempted from compliance
with any of these clauses, subject to any limitations or
conditions that the Board may consider necessary.
[en. B.C. Reg. 374/79, s. 32.]
Repealed
26.08-26.50
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Sections 28 to 30
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 32 — Scaffolds, Swing Stages and Miscellaneous Stages
Repealed
32.02-32.34
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Elevating Work Platforms
Definitions and compliance
32.36
(1)  For the purposes of this regulation, the following
definitions apply:
"elevating work platform"
means a work platform that can be self-elevated to overhead work
locations and includes all types of aerial devices that are not
covered elsewhere in these regulations;
"self propelled elevating work platform"
means any elevating work platform designed to be self-propelled
and controlled from the operator's station on the work platform;
"self-propelled, boom-supported elevating work platform"
means a self-propelled elevating work platform which has its
platform supported by an elevating means that both elevates and
rotates relative to the machine base and which is not mounted on a
separate self-propelled vehicle.
(2)  Except as provided hereafter, all elevating work
platforms other than fire fighting equipment, shall be designed,
fabricated, operated, inspected, tested and maintained in
accordance with the following applicable standards:
(a) CSA C225 "Vehicle Mounted Aerial Devices";
9
(b) WCB Standard A321 "Self-propelled Elevating Work
Platforms";
(c) WCB Standard A322 "Elevating Rolling Scaffolds";
(d) WCB Standard A323 "Work Platforms Mounted on Industrial
Lift Trucks";
(e) Canadian Standards Association Z249.2 "Safety Standard
for Powered Industrial Trucks";
(f) Other standards acceptable to the Board.
(3)  (a) Except as provided hereafter, work platforms mounted
on forklift trucks shall conform to those requirements of Canadian
Standards Association Z249.2 relating to order-picker trucks.
(b) Work platforms mounted on forklift trucks and not
conforming to clause (1) shall be in compliance with W.C.B.
Standard A323 and shall be used only for emergent or infrequent
operations.
(4)  (a) Elevating work platforms and all similar aerial
platforms shall
(i)  be fitted with guardrails, intermediate rails and
toeboards
10
on all open sides, or be enclosed to a height of 42 inches
(107cm),
(ii)  be fitted with guards to protect the occupants from
contact with the elevating machinery,
(iii)  be secured to the fork carriage when the work
platforms are mounted on forklift trucks, and
(iv)  be fitted with signs clearly indicating the safe
working load.
(b) Electric trolley line maintenance vehicles may have
guardrails not less than 28 inches (71cm) in height.
(5)  If a unit is fitted with outriggers it shall be equipped
with notices clearly indicating the circumstances in which the
outriggers must be used.
(6)  (a) Carrier vehicles of work platforms shall be
immobilized against inadvertent movement before workers occupy the
platform. Where it is permitted by the equipment manufacturer to
elevate the platform on a slope, the vehicle's wheels shall be
chocked.
(b) All elevating work platforms shall be fitted with
stopping systems meeting the requirements of regulation 26.06.
(7)  (a) All operators shall be adequately trained in the
safe operation of these devices and be familiar with their
limitations.
(b) Where the motion of an aerial work platform is controlled
from an operator station at the base of the machine, the operator
shall not leave the controls while workers are on the platform and
shall respond only to signals from a designated occupant of the
platform.
(8)  Occupants of elevating work platforms must wear full
body harnesses, secured to a fall arrest anchor, in accordance
with the relevant regulations contained in section 8. This
requirement does not apply to workers on self-propelled scissor
lift type elevating platforms with all manufacturer's guardrails
and chains in place, while operating on level, smooth terrain.
(9)  (a) Workers shall not be transported on aerial work
platforms. Workers may remain on platforms while minor adjusting
movements are made.
(b) Elevating work platforms designed to be moved with the
platform elevated may be exempted from the requirements of clause
(9) (a) subject to limitations as specified in the applicable WCB
standards.
(10)  Scissor type and other lifting mechanisms which create
a shearing hazard shall be guarded where there is a possibility of
workers inadvertently coming into contact with any hazardous
moving parts of the platform lifting mechanism.
(11)  (a) All vehicle mounted aerial devices and
self-propelled boom-supported elevating work platforms shall be
subject to non-destructive testing of critical components,
conducted by an agency or persons acceptable to the Board, at
intervals not to exceed 24 months. Where defects are found in the
critical components, the aerial device shall be repaired and then
certified by a registered professional engineer. A permanent
record of such tests and repairs shall be maintained for each
unit.
(b) For the purposes of this regulation
"critical component"
means any component the failure of which could result in immediate
uncontrolled motion of the platform.
(c) Notwithstanding sub-clauses (11) (a) and (b) an
alternative preventive maintenance program to ensure the
structural integrity of any such equipment may be submitted to the
Board for consideration.
(12)  Every elevating work platform shall be fitted with an
emergency stop button on the platform which will effectively
de-energize all systems in the case of a malfunction of the
control circuits.
(13)  Every elevating work platform shall be fitted with a
clearly marked over-riding lowering control which, in an
emergency, will enable a worker at ground level to lower the
platform.
(14)  Elevating work platforms shall be fitted with "deadman"
type controls. Such controls shall be protected against
inadvertent operation through physical contact, electrical
malfunction or other causes.
(15)  Every elevating work platform, except truck mounted
units covered by CSA C225, shall be fitted with a warning system
consisting of an intermittent horn or flashing light which will be
activated automatically during any forward, reverse, up or down
motion of the work platform.
(16)  (a) Every self-propelled boom-supported elevating work
platform shall be fitted with a tilt alarm or other suitable
warning device activated automatically when the platform is
elevated and the carrier is more than 5 degrees out of level.
(b) All other self propelled elevating work platforms, except
truck mounted units covered by CSA C225, shall be provided with a
tilt angle indicator readily visible to the operator.
(c) (i) Scaffolds mounted on vehicles shall be secured to the
vehicle in a manner that will ensure the stability of the
scaffold.
(ii)  Scaffolds shall be mounted only on vehicles which are
equipped with levelling jacks or other devices designed to
maintain the chassis in a level and stable condition.
(17)  Modifications, additions, or repairs to elevating work
platforms shall only be effected in accordance with the
instructions of the manufacturer or of a registered professional
engineer.
[am. B.C. Regs. 374/79, s. 37; 7/96, s. 9.]
Repealed
32.38-32.82
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Sections 33 to 44
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Section 46 — Explosives
[See B.C. Reg. 340/97]
Repealed
46.00-46.20
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Reporting blasting accidents or irregularities
46.22
(1)  When a blasting accident occurs in which any personal
injury is sustained, or when there is any unusual occurrence in
which explosives are involved, whether or not personal injury is
sustained, the employer shall
(a) report the incident immediately to the Accident
Prevention Department as required by regulation 6.02, and
(b) forward a written report of the incident without delay to
the Accident Prevention Department.
(2)  The written report shall state
(a) the names and certificate numbers of all blasters
involved,
(b) the names and occupations of any persons injured,
(c) the type of explosives, detonators and blasting machine
used,
(d) a factual account of events pertinent to the accident,
and
(e) action taken by the employer.
Repealed
46.24-46.136
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Sections 48 to 76
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Appendices A and B
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 315/2003, App. C, s. 2.]
Appendices C to L
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
Appendix M
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 8/96, s. 1.]
Appendix N
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 296/97.]
1.
Names of the injured may be deleted from published reports if
desired.
2.
This height specification is similar to that of the National
Building Code – 1975. Handrails on existing stairs conforming
to the earlier specification of 30 to 34 inches (76 cm to 86
cm) will not require modification.
3.
The design and use of structures is governed by the
Municipal Act
of British Columbia and regulations pursuant thereto. The
provision of fire fighting equipment is governed by the
Fire Services Act
of British Columbia and regulations pursuant thereto.
4.
Electrical equipment and installations are generally governed
by the
Electrical Safety Act
of British Columbia and regulations pursuant thereto.
5.
Many piping systems are subject to the
Power Engineers and Boiler and Pressure Vessel Safety Act
of British Columbia and Regulations pursuant thereto.
6.
The
Factories Act
, 1966 was revised as the
Factory Act
, R.S.B.C. 1977-118, which was replaced by the
Workplace Act
, S.B.C. 1985-34, now R.S.B.C. 1996-493.
7.
For the purposes of this regulation, B.C. Hydro and Power
Authority has been accepted by the Board as such an authority
and the relevant regulations are the "Safety Practice
Regulations".
8.
Guarding will not completely eliminate the danger of
electrical shock if contact is made.
9.
The testing requirements of clause 3.2.1. (b) of this standard
shall be modified to cover the full range of platform height,
rather than the upper 2/3 of platform height as specified by
that clause.
10.
Toeboards may be omitted at the access openings.
[Provisions of the
Workers Compensation Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 70 and 71]
