"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Public Health Act
Industrial Camps Health Regulation
B.C. Reg. 427/83
NOTE:
Links below go to regulation content as it was prior to the
changes made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made
from September 19, 2009 to "current to" date of the
regulation.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
Regulation
March 30, 2012
Section 1
October 22, 2009
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 70/2012, effective March 30,
2012.
B.C. Reg. 427/83
O.C. 1874/83
Deposited November 18, 1983
Public Health Act
Industrial Camps Health Regulation
Interpretation
1
In this regulation:
"approved"
means approved in writing by a medical health officer or a public
health inspector;
"camp"
means land or premises on which there are cabins, tents,
dwellings, bunkhouses or other structures owned, established,
operated or maintained by an employer as living quarters for his
agents, employees or others, with or without charge;
"common use"
means the use of an article or thing by more than one person
without its being thoroughly cleansed, laundered or sterilized
after each consecutive use;
"communicable disease"
means an illness, due to a specific infectious agent or its toxic
products, which arises through the transmission of that agent or
its product
(a) directly from an infected person or animal, or
(b) indirectly through the agency of an intermediate host
vector or the inanimate environment;
"operator"
means the person, including a government agency, operating a camp,
temporary or otherwise, and includes the owner of the camp;
"short term camp"
means a camp that operates for five months or fewer in any
twelve-month period;
"vermin"
includes rats, mice, cockroaches, bedbugs, flies and any other
noxious animal or insect.
[am. B.C. Regs. 181/88, s. 2; 246/2009.]
Application
2
This regulation applies to lumber camps, mining camps, sawmills,
railway construction camps, canneries and other similar places
where labour is employed but, except for section 27, does not
apply to a camp
(a) occupied by less than 5 persons, or
(b) established to meet emergency conditions and occupied for
a period of not more than 7 days.
Responsibility and compliance
3
No person who is an operator shall
(a) operate or manage a camp, or
(b) permit any premises, building, structure, equipment,
utensil or other thing used in or as part of a camp to be so used
except in accordance with the standards and requirements of this
regulation.
Supervision and maintenance
4
(1)  The operator shall provide continuous supervision over
each camp he operates.
(2)  The operator shall
(a) maintain in good repair all sanitary facilities and
appliances in the camp,
(b) maintain the camp and its equipment in a clean and
sanitary condition,
(c) provide and maintain at the camp suitable and adequate
equipment for the deposit of rubbish, garbage, refuse and waste,
(d) prevent the camp from being littered with rubbish,
garbage, refuse or waste, and
(e) cause a legible copy of this regulation to be kept
permanently posted in a prominent place in the camp.
Water supply, quality and source
5
(1)  An adequate supply of safe water shall be provided at
all times for drinking and domestic purposes.
(2)  Where a safe public water supply is not available, the
water shall be obtained from an approved source.
(3)  The operator shall not use a well as a source of water
supply for the camp unless the well is so constructed and located
that the water obtained from it is free from contamination.
Water storage containers
6
(1)  All drinking water storage containers in camps shall be
(a) securely closed,
(b) arranged so that water can be drawn only from a tap, and
(c) maintained clean and free from contamination.
(2)  When water is transported, the water container shall be
used for no purpose other than carrying the water and shall be
kept adequately covered.
Dispensing water
7
(1)  No drinking cup shall be in common use.
(2)  Water shall not be dipped from open springs, wells or
water containers.
(3)  Where drinking fountains are used, they shall be of an
approved angle jet type.
Cross connections
8
(1)  Where a water supply unfit for drinking purposes is used
for fire protection or industrial purposes, there shall be no
physical connection between that supply and any approved drinking
water supply.
(2)  Suitable warning signs shall be posted at all outlets of
the non-drinkable supply.
Site of camp
9
(1)  Every camp shall be so located that good natural
drainage is provided.
(2)  Any area on which a tent, building or other structure is
erected, or which is used for camp activities, shall be well
drained.
(3)  The camp site shall be chosen so that drainage will not
pollute or contaminate any water supply.
Communicable diseases
10
The operator shall
(a) immediately report to the medical health officer any
outbreak of gastrointestinal upsets, including diarrhea,
dysentery, food poisoning and similar events, and
(b) ensure that there is compliance with the provisions of
B.C. Reg. 4/83, the Communicable Disease Regulation.
Construction of buildings
11
(1)  No person shall establish or maintain a cabin, dwelling,
hut, bunkhouse or other structure used for living quarters in a
camp unless
(a) all floors not built on solid concrete or rat proof
foundation have a clearance of at least 30 cm between the surface
of the ground and the underside of the floor joists,
(b) it is wind and weather proof,
(c) the living quarters and sleeping quarters are provided
with heating arrangements that will assure a temperature of at
least 18° C during the season in which the cabin, dwelling,
bunkhouse or other structure is to be occupied,
(d) every living room, sleeping room, dining room, kitchen
and bathroom or toilet room, has adequate artificial or natural
lighting,
(e) the floor of every room containing a toilet, and every
bathroom and shower room, is finished with a smooth, tight
surface, and
(f) the floors and walls of all rooms used for living,
sleeping or eating purposes are of a smooth easily cleanable
finish and kept clean.
(2)  Subsection (1) (d) shall not apply to temporary tents
used for camp purposes.
[am. B.C. Reg. 144/84, s. 1.]
Ventilation
12
All rooms shall be sufficiently well ventilated to prevent the
accumulation of disagreeable odours and condensation.
Sleeping accommodation in short term camps
13
(1)  Where a room is used in a short term camp for sleeping
accommodation, the operator shall ensure that there is in that
room
(a) an unobstructed clearance of at least
(i)  0.6 m between beds, and
(ii)  1.0 m between each bed and the ceiling, and
(b) individual dry storage space for personal possessions and
clothing for each employee using that room for sleeping
accommodation.
(2)  The operator shall ensure that, in a short term camp,
(a) no room used for sleeping accommodation is used for
drying clothes, and
(b) all mattresses, sheets, pillow cases, blankets and bed
covers are kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
Bunkhouses
14
(1)  The operator shall not permit a room to be used for
sleeping accommodation in a camp other than a short term camp
unless
(a) each room, not in a factory constructed trailer, used as
sleeping accommodation for 2 persons has a net floor area of at
least 9 m
2
and a cubic air space of at least 21.5 m
3
and, for each person more than 2, an additional net floor area of
at least 5.5 m
2
and an additional cubic air space of at least 13.5 m
3
,
(b) each room in a factory constructed trailer used as
sleeping accommodation has for each person a net floor area of at
least 4.5 m
2
and a cubic air space of at least 9.5 m
3
, and
(c) a separate bed, not part of a system or arrangement of
double deck or multiple tier bunks, is provided for each employee.
(2)  Suitcases and other articles shall not be stored under
beds or bunks unless the bed or bunk has built in drawers.
(3)  Clothes shall not be dried in sleeping rooms.
(4)  All mattresses, sheets, pillows, pillow cases, blankets
and bed covers shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and
clean laundered sheets and pillow cases shall be supplied to each
occupant at least once a week and to each new occupant on his
arrival.
(5)  No employee shall be permitted to use his own blankets
in a bunkhouse or sleeping room.
Dwelling houses
15
No person shall construct any dwelling, apartment or housekeeping
suite in a camp unless
(a) the living room has a net floor area of at least 11 m
2
,
(b) the kitchen has a net floor area of at least 7 m
2
,
(c) the bedroom has a net floor area of at least 9 m
2
, and
(d) it has at least a living room and a kitchen.
Overcrowding
16
(1)  No tenant or occupier of a dwelling, apartment or
housekeeping suite in a camp shall permit the dwelling, apartment
or housekeeping suite to be overcrowded.
(2)  For the purpose of subsection (1), a dwelling, apartment
or housekeeping suite is overcrowded at any time when the number
of persons sleeping in the dwelling, apartment or housekeeping
suite is such that
(a) any 2 of these persons, being 10 years old or more, of
opposite sex and not being persons living together as husband and
wife, are required to sleep in the same room, or
(b) that number is, in relation to the number and floor area
of the rooms, in excess of the permitted number determined in
accordance with Schedule A.
Sewage disposal
17
The operator shall dispose of the sewage in the camp in an
approved manner that does not create a nuisance, pollute any
stream, lake or other body of water or contaminate a water supply,
bathing place or shellfish growing area.
Toilets
18
In every camp
(a) the toilets shall be at a distance of not more than 30 m
from any sleeping room in the camp,
(b) the floors of the toilet room shall be of concrete, wood
or other suitable material finished with a smooth, tight surface,
(c) the toilet rooms shall be ventilated to the outside air,
(d) the toilets shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition,
(e) water flush toilets shall not be installed in connection
with a camp unless they are connected to a public sewerage system
or to a properly designed and constructed septic tank and ground
absorption system,
(f) where water flush toilets are not used, the toilets shall
be so constructed and maintained that
(i)  flies, insects, rats or small domestic animals cannot
gain access to the waste materials,
(ii)  the surface or ground water cannot enter the pit or
vault,
(iii)  waste material in the privy cannot contaminate a water
supply, and
(iv)  self closing seat covers are in operation at all times,
(g) the minimum number of fixtures required in the camp shall
be determined in accordance with Schedule B,
(h) no toilet other than a water closet shall be installed in
a building containing sleeping, eating or other living
accommodation, and
(i) no sanitary privy, chemical closet or frost proof closet
shall be installed within any building used for human occupancy,
nor within 3.0 m of any dwelling.
Separate toilets
19
(1)  Where more than one water closet, one lavatory or one
bathtub or shower bath is installed in a single room, other than a
private dwelling unit, the use of such room shall be restricted to
persons of the same sex only.
(2)  Where separate water closet rooms or bathrooms are
provided for each sex, each water closet room or bathroom, as the
case may be, shall
(a) be closed by full sized doors, and
(b) be clearly and properly marked.
(3)  Where water closet rooms are provided for the exclusive
use of males, urinals may be provided for use in those rooms.
Washing, bathing and laundry facilities
20
(1)  A room or building shall be provided with hot and cold
water for washing, bathing and laundering purposes.
(2)  Towels, including roller towels, shall not be made
available for common use.
Dry room
21
Where more than 10 persons are ordinarily employed in a camp,
sufficient accommodation in a separate room or building shall be
provided to enable the persons employed to dry and change their
work clothes conveniently.
Stables
22
(1)  Stables shall not be nearer then 38 m to any hospital,
cookhouse, eating room, bunkhouse or water course.
(2)  Stables shall be so situated that drainage from them
does not contaminate any water course.
Repealed
23
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 144/84, s.1.]
Vermin
24
(1)  Every camp building shall be constructed and maintained
so as to exclude vermin.
(2)  An operator who becomes aware of the presence of vermin
shall take adequate steps to exterminate the vermin and keep the
premises free of them.
Garbage disposal
25
(1)  Every operator shall
(a) provide at the camp fly tight garbage containers in a
convenient location and in ample number,
(b) maintain the garbage containers so that they shall not
become foul smelling, unsightly or a breeding place for flies, and
(c) dispose of all garbage and refuse by burial, incineration
or other approved method.
(2)  No person at a camp shall dispose of garbage, waste or
refuse except in accordance with arrangements made by the
operator.
Milk
26
No milk or milk products below the standards required by B.C. Reg.
464/81, the Milk Industry Standards Regulation, shall be served in
any camp.
Abandoned camps
27
When a camp, including a camp occupied by less than 5 persons and
a camp occupied for 7 days or less, is to be abandoned, the
operator shall leave the grounds and buildings in a clean and
sanitary condition.
Repealed
28-29
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 49/2009, s. 2 (d).]
Schedule A
[Section 16 (2) (b)]
1 In making a determination under this Schedule,
(a) no account shall be taken of children under the age of 1 year,
(b) children between the ages of 1 year and 10 years shall be
counted as 1/2, and
(c) all persons who are 10 or more years of age shall be counted as
one
No. of rooms in dwelling, apartment
or housekeeping suite
No. of persons permitted in dwelling,
apartment or housekeeping suite
2
3
3
5
4
7 1/2
5
10
2 For each room in addition to 5, the number of additional persons
permitted is 2.
Schedule B
[Section 18 (g)]
1 In making a determination under this Schedule, whenever the camp
is for the exclusive use of males, urinals may be substituted for
half of the required number of water closets.
No. of persons for Whom
Accommodation is Available at Camp
From Up to and including
Minimum No. of
Water Closets or
Privy Seats
Minimum No. of
Showers
Minimum No. of
Lavatories or Wash
Basins
1 — 7
1
1
1
8 — 15
2
1
3
16 — 30
3
2
6
31 — 45
4
3
9
46 — 60
5
4
12
61 — 75
6
5
15
76 — 100
7
6
20
2 For each group of 6 persons in addition to 100, the number of
additional lavatories or wash basins is 1.
3 For each group of 20 persons in addition to 100, the number of
additional water closets or privy seats is 1 and the number of
additional showers is 1.
[Provisions of the
Public Health Act
, S.B.C. 2008, c. 28, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 115]
Section 1 definition of "short term camp" BEFORE amended by BC Reg
246/2009, effective October 22, 2009.
"short term camp"
means a camp which operates for any period between May 1 and
September 30 inclusive;
