"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Sechelt Indian Government District Enabling Act
Sechelt Indian Government District Enabling Act Advisory Council
Regulation
B.C. Reg. 247/88
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 156/2014, effective July 28,
2014.
B.C. Reg. 247/88
O.C. 1236/88
Deposited June 24, 1988
Sechelt Indian Government District Enabling Act
Sechelt Indian Government District Enabling Act Advisory Council
Regulation
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 377/88]
Establishment of Advisory Council
1
The Sechelt Indian Government District Advisory Council is
established as an advisory body to the District Council and the
following persons are appointed as the initial members of it until
December 31, 1990:
(a)
Mr. Colin McKinney, P.O. Box 1340, Sechelt, B.C.;
(b)
Mr. Harold W. McKitrick, P.O. Box 2594, Sechelt, B.C.;
(c)
Mr. William Foster, R.R. #3, McNair Road, Powell River, B.C.;
(d)
Mrs. Eleanor Mae, R.R. #1, Mission Road, Sechelt, B.C.
[am. B.C. Reg. 377/88.]
Chairman of Advisory Council
2
(1)
The members of the Advisory Council shall elect one of their
members to be the chairman.
(2)
In the absence or inability to act of the chairman, the members
present at a meeting shall elect one of their members to act as
chairman of that meeting.
Elections
3
(1)
Commencing in the Autumn of 1990 and every 3 years after that, an
election shall be conducted in accordance with Parts 3 and 4 of
the
Municipal Act
for the 5 members of the Advisory Council, who shall take office
for a 3 year term commencing at the end of the term of the members
appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
(2)
For the purposes of an election,
(a)
the Advisory Council shall appoint a person to exercise the powers
and duties exercised by the clerk of a municipality, and
(b)
the Advisory Council shall exercise the powers and duties of the
council of a municipality
under the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
In an election,
(a)
one member shall be elected who resides in each of the areas of
the Sechelt Indian Government District known as
(i)
Sechelt Band Lands (Tsawcome) No. 1,
(ii)
Sechelt Band Lands (Sechelt) No. 2,
(iii)
Sechelt Band Lands (Suahbin) No. 19, and
(iv)
Sechelt Band Lands (Cokqueneets) No. 23, and
(b)
one member shall be elected who resides anywhere in the Sechelt
Indian Government District.
(4)
With respect to the election of the members referred to in
subsection (3) (a), a person shall have only one vote and shall
vote for a candidate who resides in the same area in which the
person voting resides.
Duties of Advisory Council
4
(1)
The Advisory Council shall be responsible for
(a)
planning the servicing program for the Sechelt Indian Government
District,
(b)
estimating the costs of the servicing program referred to in
paragraph (a),
(c)
recommending a servicing program, including the proposed financing
for it, to the District Council, and
(d)
receiving and considering petitions relating to the provision of a
service in the Sechelt Indian Government District.
(2)
The Advisory Council may recommend servicing programs for all or
part of the Sechelt Indian Government District.
(3)
In addition to the duties referred to in subsection (1), the
Advisory Council may consider and make recommendations on any
other matter relating to the administration of the Sechelt Indian
Government District that the District Council requests it to
consider.
Expenses of Advisory Council
5
(1)
A member of the Advisory Council is authorized and empowered to
receive compensation for his services from the District Council in
an amount determined by the District Council, together with
reimbursement of actual expenses necessarily incurred in the
discharge of his official duties.
(2)
The Advisory Council is authorized and empowered to receive from
the District Council, and expend, the sums necessary to defray the
expenses of the Advisory Council, including the holding of
elections for its members.
Petitions to Advisory Council
6
(1)
Any 10 residents may submit a petition to the Advisory Council
asking that a certain service be provided to the Sechelt Indian
Government District or to one area of it.
(2)
In order to be valid, a petition must contain the names and
residential addresses of the petitioners in full and must set
forth with sufficient particularity the object of the petition.
(3)
Where the petition asks that a service be provided to one area
only of the Sechelt Indian Government District, it is not valid
unless it is signed by 2/3 of the occupiers of the parcels liable
to be specially charged, and unless the signatories are the
occupiers of parcels having a total assessed value of at least 1/2
of the total assessed value of all parcels liable to be specially
charged; and a description of the parcel occupied by each
petitioner shall be set out in it.
(4)
The sufficiency and validity of a petition to the Advisory Council
shall be determined by a majority of the Advisory Council whose
decision is final and binding.
(5)
For the purpose of determining the validity and sufficiency of a
petition, the Advisory Council shall look at the situation as it
existed on the day the petition was presented to it.
(6)
Where a person who is the occupier of land is a petitioner, but
does not appear by the last authenticated real property assessment
roll of the Sechelt Indian Government District to be the occupier,
he shall be deemed an occupier if his occupation is proved to the
satisfaction of the majority of the Advisory Council, and in that
case, if the person who appears by the last authenticated real
property assessment roll to be the occupier is a petitioner, his
name shall be disregarded in determining the sufficiency of the
petition.
(7)
Where 2 or more persons are occupiers of a parcel, they shall be
reckoned as one occupier only, and are not entitled to petition
unless a majority of them concur.
[Provisions of the
Sechelt Indian Government District Enabling Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 416, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: sections 2, 8]
