"Point in Time" Regulation Content
Financial Administration Act
Retention of Fee by British Columbia Assets and Land Corporation
Regulation No. 3
B.C. Reg. 384/98
Regulation BEFORE repealed by BC Reg 80/2005, effective March 17,
2005.
B.C. Reg. 384/98
Treasury Board
Deposited October 27, 1998
Financial Administration Act
Retention of Fee by British Columbia Assets and Land Corporation
Regulation No. 3
Retention authorized
1
British Columbia Assets and Land Corporation (Incorporation No.
258741) ("BCALC") is authorized to retain the following amounts
from all public money collected by BCALC in operating,
maintaining, developing, marketing and disposing of Crown lands
and interests in Crown lands, in accordance with the agreement
between the Province, represented by the Minister of Environment,
Lands and Parks and BCALC dated October 2, 1998 ("the Agreement")
which is on file with the Minister of Environment, Lands and
Parks:
(a) all "Eligible Fee Simple Expenses", as defined in the
Agreement;
(b) all "UEL Eligible Expenses", as defined in the Agreement;
(c) all "BCALC Fee Simple Revenue Fees", as defined in the
Agreement;
(d) all "BCALC UEL Fee Simple Revenue Fees", as defined in
the Agreement;
(e) all "BCALC UEL Lease Management Fees", as defined in the
Agreement;
(f) all interest earned on the "Provincial Fee Simple
Revenue", as defined in the Agreement, while the Provincial Fee
Simple Revenue is in the custody and control of BCALC, as trustee
for the Province;
(g) all interest earned on the "Provincial UEL Fee Simple
Revenue", as defined in the Agreement, while the Provincial UEL
Fee Simple Revenue is in the custody and control of BCALC, as
trustee for the Province;
(h) all interest earned on the "Provincial UEL Lease
Revenue", as defined in the Agreement, while the Provincial UEL
Lease Revenue is in the custody and control of BCALC, as trustee
for the Province.
[Provisions of the
Financial Administration Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 138, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 14 (2)]
