“Point in Time” Act Content
LIMITATION ACT
[SBC 2012] CHAPTER 13
NOTE:
Links below go to act content as it was prior to the changes
made on the effective date. (PIT covers changes made from
September 6, 2000 to "current to" date of the act.)
SECTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
1
March 30, 2023
3
March 27, 2020
24
March 10, 2016
Section 1 definition of "person under a disability" BEFORE amended
by 2023-10-501, effective March 30, 2023 (Royal Assent).
"person under a disability"
means an adult person who is incapable of or substantially impeded
in managing his or her affairs;
Section 3 (1) (o) was added by 2019-38-99 [conseq], effective March
27, 2020 (BC Reg 45/2020).
Section 24 BEFORE amended by 2016-5-39,Sch 1, effective March 10,
2016 (Royal Assent).
Limitation periods extended if liability acknowledged
24
(1)
If, before the expiry of either of the limitation periods that,
under this Act, apply to a claim, a person acknowledges liability
in respect of the claim,
(a)
the claim must not be considered to have been discovered on any
day earlier than the day on which the acknowledgement is made, and
(b)
the act or omission on which the claim is based is deemed to have
taken place on the day on which the acknowledgment is made.
(2)
An acknowledgment of liability in respect of a claim for interest
is also an acknowledgment of liability in respect of a claim for
(a)
the outstanding principal, if any, and
(b)
interest falling due after the acknowledgment is made.
(3)
An acknowledgment of liability in respect of a claim to realize on
or redeem collateral under a security agreement or to recover
money in respect of the collateral, if made by a person in
possession of the collateral, is an acknowledgment of liability in
respect of the claim by any other person who later comes into
possession of the collateral.
(4)
An acknowledgment by a trustee of liability in respect of a claim
is an acknowledgment of liability in respect of the claim by any
other person who is or who later becomes a trustee of the same
trust.
(5)
An acknowledgment of liability in respect of a claim to recover or
enforce an equitable interest in personal property, if made by a
person in possession of the personal property, is an
acknowledgment of liability in respect of the claim by any other
person who later comes into possession of the personal property.
(6)
Subsection (1) does not apply to an acknowledgment, other than an
acknowledgement referred to in subsection (7), (8) or (9), unless
the acknowledgment is
(a)
in writing,
(b)
signed, by hand or by electronic signature within the meaning of
the
Electronic Transactions Act
,
(c)
made by the person making the acknowledgment or the person's
agent, and
(d)
made to the person with the claim, the person's agent or an
official receiver or trustee acting under the
Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act
(Canada).
(7)
In the case of a claim for payment of a liquidated sum, part
payment of the sum by the person against whom the claim is or may
be made or by the person's agent is an acknowledgment by the
person against whom the claim is or may be made of liability in
respect of the claim.
(8)
A debtor's performance of an obligation under or in respect of a
security agreement is an acknowledgment by the debtor of liability
in respect of a claim by the creditor for realization on the
collateral under the security agreement.
(9)
A creditor's acceptance of a debtor's payment or performance of an
obligation under or in respect of a security agreement is an
acknowledgment by the creditor of liability in respect of a claim
by the debtor for redemption of the collateral under the security
agreement.
(10)
This section applies to an acknowledgment of liability in respect
of a claim for payment of a liquidated sum even though the person
making the acknowledgment refuses or does not promise to pay the
sum or the balance of the sum still owing.
