




Community Services Labour Relations Act
[SBC 2003] CHAPTER 27


Assented to May 29, 2003






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this Act:


"agency"
means an organization or a person that enters into a contract with the
government to provide community social services, but does not include
the authority;



"association of unions"

means an association of trade unions established under section 4;


"authority"
means Community Living British Columbia established under the

Community Living Authority Act

;


"Code"
means the

Labour Relations Code

;


"CSSEA"
means the Community Social Services Employers' Association established
under section 6 of the

Public Sector Employers Act

;



"family home provider"

means a person who,




(a)

in a residence owned or rented and occupied by a person, is the
primary care provider to that person, and




(b)

as a care provider, does not provide care to more than 3 persons at
any time.




(2)

To the extent that this Act does not otherwise define a word or an
expression used in this Act, the definitions in the Code apply.






CSSEA as bargaining agent




2

(1)


CSSEA is deemed to be the accredited bargaining agent for




(a)

agencies that are members of CSSEA, and




(b)

the authority


whose employees are represented by a trade union.




(2)

CSSEA has exclusive authority to bargain collectively on behalf of
agencies and the authority referred to in subsection (1) and to bind
them by a collective agreement.






Bargaining units of agency employees




3

(1)


For the purpose of collective bargaining between CSSEA and the
association of unions representing employees of agencies, a separate
bargaining unit is established for each of the following:




(a)

agencies that are members of CSSEA and contract primarily to provide
community living services;




(b)

agencies that are members of CSSEA and contract primarily to provide
services to aboriginal persons;




(c)

agencies that contract primarily to provide services other than those
described in paragraphs (a) and (b);




(d)

the authority.




(2)

For the purpose of collective bargaining between CSSEA and the
association of unions representing employees of agencies, the
Lieutenant Governor in Council may establish a separate bargaining
unit representing all unionized employees of agencies that are members
of CSSEA.






Association of unions




4

(1)


A trade union certified to represent the employees of an agency
included in a bargaining unit established under section 3 must
belong to a single association of unions composed of all trade unions
representing employees in all bargaining units established under
section 3.




(2)

The trade unions affected by subsection (1) must agree, within 30 days
of the date on which this section comes into force, to articles of
association that




(a)

are consistent with this Act and the Code,




(b)

provide the association of unions with exclusive jurisdiction to
bargain on behalf of the bargaining units for which the association of
unions will be certified and to conclude a single collective agreement
for each bargaining unit established under section 3,




(c)

provide the association of unions with the right and obligation to
resolve differences among its members with respect to the
administration of the collective agreements referred to in paragraph
(b) of this subsection, including differences with respect to the
right or obligation to a particular trade union within the association
of unions,




(d)

include provisions with respect to ratification and other collective
bargaining processes that reflect the relative membership size of
trade union representation in the bargaining units within the
association of unions, while ensuring that a member or group of
members of a constituent trade union is not treated by the association
of unions in bad faith or in a manner that is arbitrary or
discriminatory,




(e)

provide for the future addition to the association of unions of any
other trade unions that the Labour Relations Board may certify to
represent employees of an agency that are within a bargaining unit,
and




(f)

include any other provision that the Labour Relations Board determines
may be necessary in order to ensure that the association of unions can
function as a bargaining agent and administer a collective agreement
on behalf of the employees within its jurisdiction.




(3)

The articles of association referred to in subsection (2) are subject
to approval by the Labour Relations Board.




(4)

If the articles of association referred to in subsection (2) are not
agreed to by the trade unions and approved by the Labour Relations
Board before the expiry of the time period established under
subsection (2), the Labour Relations Board must determine the articles
of association within 30 days of the end of that time period.




(5)

Articles of association determined under subsection (4) are deemed to
be a decision of the Labour Relations Board.






Vote for one union




5

(1)


Despite section 4, if the minister determines that




(a)

the delivery of community social services generally, or the
flexibility of delivery, would be improved,




(b)

the cost effectiveness of service delivery in the community social
services sector would be better served, or




(c)

the public interest would be better served


if there were only one union representing employees in the bargaining
units established under section 3, the minister may direct the Labour
Relations Board to conduct a vote to determine which union will
represent all of the employees in the respective bargaining units.




(2)

If the minister issues a directive under subsection (1), the Labour
Relations Board must conduct the vote within 45 days of receipt of the
directive.






Volunteers and family home providers




6


A collective agreement must not contain any provision that directly or
indirectly




(a)

prevents an agency or the authority from using volunteers, if the use
of volunteers does not result in the layoff of an employee, or




(b)

limits the government, an agency or the authority from entering into a
contract with a family home provider.






Labour relations matters




7

(1)


A collective agreement to which the government or the authority is a
party does not bind, and section 35 of the Code does not apply
to, an agency that contracts with the government or the authority.




(2)

An arbitrator or the Labour Relations Board must not declare a person
who




(a)

provides services under a contract between the government and an
agency or between the authority and an agency, or




(b)

is an employee of an agency


to be an employee of the government or of the authority unless the
government or the authority intended that person to be fully
integrated into the operations of, and working under the direct
supervision or control of, the government or the authority.




(3)

[Repealed 2018-50-2.]




(4)

The minister may withhold or reduce




(a)

a grant, other than a debt service grant,




(b)

an amount payable to an agency under a contract with the government or
the authority, or




(c)

an amount payable to the authority under a contract with the
government


if the operating expenses of an agency or the authority, as the case
may be, have been reduced during a strike or lockout as defined in the
Code.




(5)

The minister may direct an audit of an agency or the authority to
determine the amount of the reduction in operating expenses as a
result of a strike or lockout.






Application of the Code




8

(1)


The Code and the regulations made under it apply to the government, an
agency and the authority, but, if there is a conflict or inconsistency
between this Act and those enactments, this Act applies.




(2)

Except as specifically provided in this Act, the Labour Relations
Board has exclusive jurisdiction to decide a question arising under
this Act.






Spent





9



[Consequential amendment. Spent. 2003-27-9.]






Commencement




10


This Act comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council.




