




Criminal Injury Compensation Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 85






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this Act:


"board"
means the Workers' Compensation Board established under the

Workers Compensation Act

;


"child"
includes a child to whom the victim stands in the place of a parent;



"immediate family member"

means




(a)

a spouse, child, sibling, step-sibling, half sibling or parent of the
victim or a person who, although not a parent or child of the victim,
was like a parent or child to the victim and, for this purpose




(i)

spouse means the individual recognized under subsection (2) as the
spouse of the victim, and




(ii)

child includes an individual recognized under subsection (2) as the
child of the victim and, with reference to the victim as parent, a
child born after the death of the victim, or




(b)

if dependent in whole or in part on the victim for financial support
at the time of the victim's death, a grandparent or grandchild of the
victim;


"injury"
and
"injured"
means bodily harm, and includes mental or nervous shock and pregnancy;


"invalid"
means physically or mentally incapable of earning;



"invalid child"

includes a child who, though not an invalid at the date of death of
the victim, becomes an invalid before otherwise ceasing to be entitled
to compensation;



"qualified practitioner"

means a person authorized under an enactment to practise in British
Columbia as a chiropractor, dentist, medical practitioner,
naturopathic physician or podiatrist;


"specialist"
means a physician listed by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of Canada as having specialist qualifications;


"spouse"
means a person who




(a)

is married to another person, or




(b)

is living with another person in a marriage-like relationship;


"victim"
means a person injured or killed in the circumstances set out in
section 2 (2).




(2)

The board may recognize an individual as the spouse or child of the
victim for the purposes of this Act if at the time of the victim's
death the individual




(a)

was qualified as a spouse or child of the victim under an enactment of
British Columbia or Canada to apply for support, alimony or
maintenance from the victim, or




(b)

was entitled to support, alimony or maintenance from the victim under
an order or agreement enforceable under such an enactment.






Right to compensation




2

(1)


[Repealed 2001-38-32 and B.C. Reg. 160/2002.]




(2)

For the purpose of this Act, a victim of crime is a person injured or
killed in British Columbia by an act or omission of another resulting
from any of the following:




(a)

the commission of an offence within the description of a criminal
offence mentioned in the Schedule, except an offence arising out of
the operation of a motor vehicle, but including assault by means of a
motor vehicle;




(b)

the lawful arrest or attempt to arrest an offender or suspected
offender, or assisting a peace officer in making or attempting to make
an arrest;




(c)

the lawful prevention or attempt to prevent the commission of a
criminal offence or suspected offence, or assisting a peace officer in
preventing or attempting to prevent the commission of the offence or
suspected offence.




(3)

On application as prescribed by the board or by the regulations, the
board




(a)

must determine whether the applicant is a victim of crime or the
immediate family member of a deceased victim of crime, and




(b)

may award compensation to the victim or the immediate family members
as provided by this Act.




(4)

Subject to subsections (4.1) and (4.2), compensation may be awarded
for any of the following:




(a)

expenses actually and reasonably incurred or to be incurred as a
result of the victim's injury or death;




(b)

pecuniary loss or damages incurred by the victim as a result of total
or partial disability affecting the victim's capacity for work;




(c)

pecuniary loss or damages incurred by immediate family members as a
result of the victim's death;




(d)

maintenance of a child born as a result of rape;




(e)

other pecuniary loss or damages resulting from the victim's injury and
any expense that, in the board's opinion, it is reasonable to incur;




(f)

non-pecuniary loss or damage for pain, suffering, mental or emotional
trauma, humiliation or inconvenience.




(4.1)

Despite any provision of this Act, compensation referred to in
subsection (4) (f) may not be awarded under this Act in respect of an
application received by the board on or after April 16, 2002.




(4.2)

Subsection (4.1) applies irrespective of the date of death or injury
in respect of which an application is made and whether or not the
board has extended the period for making an application under section
6.




(5)

If the injury to a person occurred in the circumstances mentioned in
subsection (2) (b) or (c) the board may, in addition to the
compensation referred to in subsection (4), award compensation to the
injured person for any other damage resulting from the injury for
which compensation may be recovered at law, other than punitive or
exemplary damages.




(6)

The board may




(a)

award compensation to a mother who is herself maintaining a child born
to her as a result of an offence in the Schedule, and




(b)

if the mother dies, pay compensation to any person who, in the board's
opinion, is maintaining the child.




(7)

Compensation awarded to an applicant under this Act must be paid out
of the consolidated revenue fund in the same manner as money is paid
under the

Workers Compensation Act

, if a worker, employed by the government, is injured or killed in the
course of his or her employment.






Payments




3

(1)


The board may, in its discretion exercised in accordance with this
Act, do any of the following:




(a)

award compensation in the form of a lump sum payment, and may, at any
time, divide the lump sum payment into periodic payments and pay them
at times and in a manner and form as it considers advisable;




(b)

award compensation in the form of periodic payments, and




(i)

if the periodic payments are awarded to a victim who is disabled as a
result of an injury, they must, subject to this Act, be of the same
amount and for the same duration as payments made to a disabled worker
under sections 22, 23, 29 and 30 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as those sections read before being amended
by the
Workers Compensation Amendment Act, 2002;




(ii)

if the periodic payments are awarded to immediate family members, they
must, subject to this Act, be of the same amount and for the same
duration as payments made to dependants under section 17 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as it read before any amendments in the
Workers Compensation Amendment Act, 2002
came into force;




(iii)

may commute all or part of the periodic payments to one or more lump
sum payments, to be applied as directed by the board;




(c)

if a victim is killed and the funeral, burial and cremation expenses
are not provided for under an Act of Canada or British Columbia, pay
expenses, not exceeding the amount that would be paid under
section 17 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as it read before any amendments in the
Workers Compensation Amendment Act, 2002
came into force;




(d)

if compensation is payable for expenses, pay the compensation directly
to the person entitled to it.




(2)

An award of compensation may be made subject to terms and conditions
the board considers necessary or advisable with respect to the any of
the following:




(a)

payment, disposition, allotment or apportionment of the compensation;




(b)

holding of the compensation or any part of it in trust for the victim
or the immediate family members, or any of them, whether as a fund for
a class or otherwise;




(c)

payment of compensation to any person who, in the board's opinion, is
best qualified to administer the payment on behalf of a victim or
immediate family member who is, in the board's opinion, incapable of
managing his or her own affairs.






Factors to be considered




4

(1)


Subject to section 5, in determining whether to award compensation and
the amount, the board must have regard to all relevant circumstances,
including any behaviour of the victim that may have, directly or
indirectly, contributed to his or her injury or death.




(2)

In determining the amount of compensation, if any, to be awarded to an
applicant, the board must deduct




(a)

any amount recovered from the person whose act or omission resulted in
the injury or death, whether as damages or compensation, under an
action at law or otherwise, and




(b)

any benefits received or to be received




(i)

by the victim for the injury, or




(ii)

by the applicant for the victim's death,


under an Act of Canada or of British Columbia or of any other province
other than benefits under a pension plan or program under such an Act,
and, if the claim is for injuries or death caused by a motor vehicle,
includes benefits that could have been applied for under a policy of
accident insurance, and




(c)

any payment, allowance or benefit that the victim may receive from his
or her employer during the period of his or her disability, including
a pension, gratuity or other allowance provided wholly at the expense
of the employer.






Exceptions




5

(1)


The board must not entertain an application under section 2 made
for injury or death of a peace officer occurring under circumstances
entitling the peace officer or the peace officer's immediate family
members to compensation payable out of public money under any other
Act of British Columbia or of Canada or payable by an organization
that is wholly or partly supported by public funds.




(2)

The board must not entertain an application if a claim is less than
$100 nor make an award if the amount payable is less than $100.




(3)

The board must not award compensation




(a)

except under section 2 (4) (f), to a victim who is injured in
circumstances giving recourse to the

Government Employees Compensation Act

(Canada) or the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as it read before being amended by the
Workers Compensation Amendment Act, 2002
,




(b)

to a victim who, through his or her gross fault, contributed to his or
her injuries or death, or who was a party to the crime,




(c)

to an immediate family member who was a party to the offence that
caused the victim's death, or




(d)

to an immediate family member of a victim who was a party to the
crime.






Limitation period




6


An application for compensation must be made within one year after the
date of the injury or death but the board, before or after the expiry
of the one year period, may extend the time for a further period as it
considers warranted.






Attorney General




7


The Attorney General may appear and be heard at the hearing of any
matter by the board under this Act.






Proof of crime




8

(1)


Compensation may be awarded whether or not any person is prosecuted
for or convicted of the offence giving rise to the injury or death.




(2)

On its own initiative or on the application of the Attorney General,
the board may adjourn its proceedings until the final determination of
a prosecution or intended prosecution.




(3)

A person is deemed for the purposes of this Act to have intended an
act or omission that caused injury or death for which compensation is
payable under this Act even if the person is, for any reason, legally
incapable of having a criminal intent.




(4)

If a person is convicted of a criminal offence for an act or omission
on which a claim under this Act is based, proof of the conviction is,
after the time for an appeal has expired or if an appeal was taken, it
was dismissed and no further appeal is available, conclusive evidence
that the offence has been committed.






Interim payment




9

(1)


The board may, in its discretion, order interim payments to the
applicant if




(a)

the applicant is in actual financial need, and




(b)

it appears to the board that it will probably award compensation to
the applicant.




(2)

If compensation is not awarded, the amount paid under this section is
not, in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation, recoverable from
the applicant.






Action for damages




10

(1)


If the cause of the injury or death of the victim is such that an
action lies against some person, the victim or immediate family member
may apply for and receive compensation, bring the action or do both.




(2)

If a victim or immediate family member who brings the action referred
to in subsection (1) and who, before judgment in or settlement of the
action, receives compensation under this Act, he or she must
immediately notify the board of the action.




(3)

On applying to the court, the board must be added as a party to the
action of which it has been notified under subsection (2).




(4)

If an action for the injury or death of the victim has not been
brought by the victim or immediate family member, the board




(a)

is subrogated in respect of the right of action of the victim or
immediate family member to whom payment is made under this Act, and




(b)

may maintain the action in the name of that person or in its own name.




(4.1)

The board may not seek compensation under this section for
non-pecuniary loss or damage for pain, suffering, mental or emotional
trauma, humiliation or inconvenience, in respect of an application
received by the board on or after April 16, 2002.




(5)

If the board brings the action referred to in subsection (4), it must
give notice of the action to the victim or immediate family member, as
the case may be.




(6)

Neither the making of the application for nor the payment of
compensation under this Act restricts or impairs a right of action of
the board, victim or immediate family member against any person
liable.




(7)

If compensation has been paid or awarded under this Act, the amount
recovered from the person against whom the action referred to in
subsection (1) lies must be applied




(a)

first, to payment of costs, if any, including costs of bringing
execution,




(b)

second, to payment to the victim or immediate family member of the
amount, if any, by which the amount recovered, less costs under
paragraph (a), exceeds the compensation paid or to be paid by the
board, and




(c)

third, to payment to the board for reimbursement of the compensation
paid or to be paid by it to the victim or immediate family member.




(8)

If the amount of




(a)

a judgment awarded by a court in an action referred to in subsection
(1), or




(b)

a settlement of a claim or an action referred to in subsection (1),


is less than the amount of compensation paid or awarded by the board,
the victim or immediate family member remains entitled to retain or to
be paid the amount of compensation awarded by the board.




(9)

A settlement or release does not bar the rights of the board under
subsection (4) unless the board has concurred in it.




(10)

In an action referred to in subsection (4), an award of damages is to
include wages and salary paid by the employer of the victim.




(11)

Costs may be awarded to and collected by the board in an action
referred to in this section, even if a salaried legal officer of the
board acts as solicitor or counsel.






No garnishment of compensation




11


Any compensation awarded or other amount paid or payable by the board
under this Act is not subject to garnishment, attachment, seizure or
any other legal process and the right to it is not assignable.






Existing disability




12

(1)


If injury is superimposed on an already existing disability,
compensation is to be allowed only for the proportion of disability
that exists following the injury as may reasonably be attributed to
the injury.




(2)

The measure of the disability attributable to injury is the amount of
the difference between the victim's disability before and disability
after the occurrence of the injury.






Limit on compensation payable




13

(1)


The amount awarded by the board to be paid for injury or death of a
victim must not,




(a)

for a lump sum payment, exceed $50 000, and




(b)

for periodic payments, exceed the amount payable to a worker or
dependant under sections 17, 22, 23, 29 and 30 of the

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 492, as those sections read before being amended
by the
Workers Compensation Amendment Act, 2002.




(2)

If both lump sum and periodic payments are awarded, one but not both
may exceed 50% of the maximum amount that can be awarded under
subsection (1) (a) or (b).




(3) and (4)

[Repealed 2002-56-46.]




(5)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to amounts awarded in respect of
a death or injury occurring in the circumstances referred to in
section 2 (2) (b) or (c) and the amounts must not be taken into
account in determining maximum awards.






Duration of payments to immediate family members




14


If periodic payments have been awarded under section 3 they are
to continue only so long as, in the board's opinion, it might
reasonably have been expected had the victim lived he or she would
have continued to contribute to the support of his or her immediate
family members.






Payment to immediate family members




15

(1)


If a victim or an immediate family member is confined to a
penitentiary or a correctional institution, the board




(a)

may cancel, withhold or suspend the payment of compensation for a
period it considers advisable, and




(b)

if the compensation is withheld or suspended, may pay the compensation
or any portion to his or her spouse or children, or to a trustee
appointed by the board.




(2)

A trustee must expend any money paid to the trustee under subsection
(1) for the benefit of the victim, the spouse or children.




(3)

If a victim is not supporting his or her spouse and children and they
are likely to require income assistance under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or disability assistance under the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, or if an order has been made against the victim by a court of
competent jurisdiction for the support or maintenance of the spouse or
children, the board may pay all or part of the compensation to or for
the benefit of the spouse or children.






Rehabilitation measures




16


In order to assist a victim to obtain work or to lessen or remove a
handicap resulting from the injury, the board may take the measures
and make expenditures it considers necessary or expedient.






Medical aid




17

(1)


In addition to the other compensation provided by this Act, if the
board orders periodic payments to be made, the board has authority to
furnish or provide for a victim medical, surgical, hospital, nursing,
and other care or treatment, transportation, medicines, crutches, and
apparatus, including artificial members, as it considers reasonably
necessary at the time of the injury.




(2)

During the disability, to cure the injury or alleviate its effects,
the board may adopt rules and regulations for furnishing medical aid
to a victim and for payment and the board may make a daily subsistence
allowance to an injured victim who under its direction, is undergoing
treatment at a place other than the victim's residence that he or she
continues to support and maintain.




(3)

The board may replace and repair




(a)

artificial appliances, including artificial members, damaged or broken
in circumstances set out in section 2 (2), or




(b)

clothing, eyeglasses, dentures and hearing aids broken in the same
circumstances, if the breakage is accompanied by objective signs of
personal injury, or, if there is no injury, if the crime is otherwise
corroborated and the board is satisfied that the victim was not at
fault.




(4)

Medical or hospital costs payable under a medical or hospital plan
established under any Act of Canada or of British Columbia are not
payable under this Act.






Medical examination and proof of dependency




18

(1)


The board may require a victim who is receiving periodic payments of
compensation to be medically examined at a place reasonably convenient
for the victim.




(2)

If the victim fails to attend for the examination or obstructs the
medical examiner




(a)

the victim's right to compensation is suspended until the examination
has taken place, and




(b)

no compensation is payable during the period of suspension.




(3)

The board may reduce or suspend periodic payments of compensation if
the victim




(a)

persists in unsanitary or injurious practices that tend to imperil or
retard his or her recovery, or




(b)

refuses to submit to medical or surgical treatment that, in the
board's opinion, based on medical or surgical advice, is reasonably
essential to promote his or her recovery.




(4)

The board may




(a)

require proof of the existence and the physical, mental or financial
condition of an immediate family member receiving compensation, and




(b)

withhold further payments until receipt of satisfactory proof.






Reports of physicians




19

(1)


If an application for compensation is made to the board, every
physician or qualified practitioner attending or consulting about the
injury or alleged injury to a victim must




(a)

furnish reports about the injury in a form as required by the
regulations or by the board,




(b)

furnish the first report to the board within 3 days after it is
requested by the board,




(c)

furnish a final report within 3 days after the victim is, in the
opinion of the physician or qualified practitioner, able to resume
work and, if treatment is being continued after resumption of work,
furnish further adequate reports, and




(d)

if the physician is a specialist whose opinion is requested by the
attending physician, the victim, or the board, or if the physician
continues to treat the victim after being consulted as a specialist,
furnish the first report to the board within 3 days after completion
of consultation but, if the specialist is regularly treating the
victim, the specialist must submit reports as required in paragraphs
(a) to (c).




(2)

Every physician or qualified practitioner who is authorized by this
Act to treat an injured victim is subject to similar duties and
responsibilities, and any aid furnished by that person is subject to
the direction, supervision and control of the board.






Workers' Compensation Board




20

(1)


The board is charged with the administration of this Act, and has all
the powers that are given to it under the

Workers Compensation Act

.




(2)

The board has exclusive jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and
determine all those matters and questions of fact and law arising or
required to be determined under this Act, and the action or decision
of the board is final and conclusive and is not open to question or
review in any court.




(3)

Proceedings by or before the board must not be restrained by
injunction, prohibition, or other process or proceeding in any court
or be removed by certiorari or otherwise into any court.




(4)

An action must not be maintained or brought against any governor,
officer, appeal commissioner or employee of the board for any act,
omission or decision done or made in the genuine belief that it was
within the jurisdiction of the board.




(5)

Without limiting subsections (1) to (4), the board has exclusive
jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and determine any of the following:




(a)

whether the victim sustained an injury;




(b)

whether an injury to or the death of a victim resulted from




(i)

the commission of an offence,




(ii)

his or her making or attempting to make an arrest of an offender or
suspected offender,




(iii)

assisting a peace officer in making or attempting to make an arrest,




(iv)

preventing or attempting to prevent the commission of an offence or
suspected offence, or




(v)

assisting a peace officer in preventing or attempting to prevent the
commission of an offence or suspected offence;




(c)

the existence and degree of disability by reason of an injury;




(d)

the permanence of disability by reason of an injury;




(e)

the degree of diminution of earning capacity by reason of an injury;




(f)

the existence, for this Act, of the relationship of any person to the
victim;




(g)

the existence of dependency;




(h)

whether any person is entitled to compensation under this Act.




(6)

[Repealed 2001-38-32 and B.C. Reg. 160/2002.]






Attendance of witnesses




21

(1)


The board has the same powers as the Supreme Court for compelling the
attendance of witnesses and of examining them under oath, and
compelling the production and inspection of books, papers, documents
and things.




(2)

The board may cause depositions of witnesses residing in or out of
British Columbia to be taken before any person appointed by the board
in a similar manner to that prescribed by the Rules of the Supreme
Court for the taking of similar depositions in that court before a
commissioner.






Officers of board




22

(1)


The board may act on the report of any if its officers, and any
inquiry or examination that it considers necessary to make may be made
by any officer of the board or other person appointed to make the
inquiry or examination.




(2) to (5)

[Repealed 2001-38-32 and B.C. Reg. 160/2002.]




(6)

A decision of the appeal division or of a panel of the appeal division
is deemed to be a decision of the board.




(7)

An appeal commissioner or officer of the board, a member of an appeal
committee, and every person appointed to make an inquiry or
examination under this section has, for the purposes of an inquiry or
a review under this section, all the powers conferred upon the board
by section 20.




(8)

An appeal commissioner or officer of the board, a member of an appeal
committee and every person appointed to make an inquiry or examination
under this section has power and authority




(a)

to require and take affidavits, affirmations or declarations relating
to the examination or inquiry,




(b)

to take statutory declarations, and




(c)

in all cases to administer oaths, affirmations and declarations and to
certify them.




(9)

A person who obstructs or hinders the making of an examination or
inquiry under this section, or refuses to permit it to be made,
commits an offence.






Reconsideration by appeal division




23

(1)


Subject to this section, a decision of the appeal division is final
and conclusive.




(2) and (3)

[Repealed 2001-38-32 and B.C. Reg. 160/2002.]






Reports




24

(1)


On or before March 25 in each year, the board must make a report to
the Lieutenant Governor in Council of its transactions during the last
preceding calendar year.




(2)

The report must contain particulars the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may specify.




(3)

The report must be submitted by the Attorney General to the
Legislature or, if it is not in session, within 15 days after the
opening of the next session.




(4)

The board is to publish and distribute information about the business
transacted by the board as it judges useful.






Agreements with Canada




25


The government, represented by the Attorney General, with the approval
of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, may make agreements with Canada
for the payment by Canada to the government of part of the
expenditures required for this Act.






Application of Act




26


This Act applies for compensation claims arising from an injury or
death resulting from an act or omission that occurs after
July 1, 1972 and for which an application is received by the
board before the date section 2 of the

Crime Victim Assistance Act

comes into force.






Power to make regulations




27


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations as follows:




(a)

prescribing rules for applications to the board and the proceedings of
the board;




(b)

requiring the payment of fees for any matter in the jurisdiction of
the board, including witness fees, and prescribing the amounts;




(c)

prescribing forms for this Act and providing for their use;




(d)

respecting any matter necessary or advisable to effectively carry out
this Act;




(e)

adding or subtracting offences in the Schedule;




(f)

making any provision of the

Workers Compensation Act

applicable, to an extent as may be prescribed, to this Act.




Schedule


(Section 2)





Section of


Criminal

Code


Description of Offence







64
Riots.


76
Hijacking of aircraft.


77
Endangering safety of aircraft in flight.


78

Taking offensive weapons and explosive substances on board a
civilian aircraft.



80
Explosives where death or bodily harm results.


81

Intentionally causing death or bodily harm by explosive substance.



85

Using a firearm while committing or attempting to commit an
indictable offence, or during flight after committing or
attempting to commit an indictable offence.



86

Pointing a firearm or careless use of a firearm.



151

Sexual interference or sexual touching of a person under 14.



152
Invitation to sexual touching.


153
Sexual exploitation of a young person.


155
Incest.


180
Common nuisance causing harm.


215
Failure to provide necessaries.


218
Abandoning child.


220
Causing death by criminal negligence.


221
Causing bodily harm by criminal negligence.


229
Murder.


236
Manslaughter.


239
Attempted murder.


241
Counselling or aiding suicide.


244
Causing bodily harm with intent.


245
Administering noxious thing.


246

Overcoming resistance to commission of offence.



247
Traps likely to cause bodily harm or death.


248
Interfering with transportation facilities.


249 (1) (b)
Dangerous operation of vessel or towed object.


249 (1) (c)
Dangerous operation of aircraft.


251

Operating unseaworthy vessel or unsafe aircraft.



253
Impaired operation of vessel.


262
Impeding attempt to save life.


263

Failure to safeguard opening in ice or excavation on land.



264 (1)
Criminal harassment (stalking).


264.1 (1)
Uttering threats.


266
Assault.


267
Assault with a weapon or causing bodily harm.


268
Aggravated assault.


269
Unlawfully causing bodily harm.


269.1
Torture.


270
Assaulting a peace officer.


271
Sexual assault.


272

Sexual assault with a weapon, threats to a third party or causing
bodily harm.



273
Aggravated sexual assault.


279 (1)
Kidnapping.


279 (2)
Forcible confinement.


279.1
Hostage taking.


280
Abduction of person under 16.


281
Abduction of person under 14.


282
Abduction in contravention of custody order.


283
Abduction where no custody order.


344
Robbery.


423
Intimidation.


430 (2)
Mischief causing actual danger to life.


433
Arson.


436
Causing fire resulting in loss of life.


437
False fire alarm.





