




Fishing Collective Bargaining Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 150






Definitions




1


In this Act:


"board"
has the same meaning as in the Code;


"Code"
means the

Labour Relations Code

;



"collective agreement"

means a written agreement between an employer or an employers'
organization authorized by the employer, and a trade union providing
for minimum prices or prices of fish, share arrangements between
vessel owners and crew members on fishing vessels, hours of work or
other conditions of employment and includes any such agreement that
was entered into before June 30, 1994 and that is still in
force;


"employee"
means a person engaged in commercial fishing and includes a person who
agrees to accept as remuneration a share or portion of the proceeds of
a fishing venture;


"employer"
means a person who employs one or more employees and includes




(a)

a person who purchases fish from a commercial fisher,




(b)

a person who provides as remuneration a share or portion of the
proceeds of a fishing venture, and




(c)

an employers' organization;


"fish"
means any species of animal living in water, including its eggs or
roe;


"lockout"
means a lockout as defined in the Code and includes a refusal by an
employer to accept or purchase fish, done to compel the employer's
employees or to aid another employer in compelling that employer's
employees to agree to conditions of employment;


"strike"
means a strike as defined in the Code and includes a refusal to engage
in fishing or to sell or deliver fish by employees in combination or
in concert or in accordance with a common understanding.






Application of Act




2


This Act applies to persons engaged in the catching or harvesting of
fish and to persons purchasing fish.






Application of
Labour Relations Code




3


The Code and the regulations under it apply in respect of the matters
to which this Act applies, but if there is a conflict or inconsistency
between this Act and the Code, this Act applies.






Voluntary recognition




4


Nothing in this Act prohibits or terminates any voluntary recognition
of trade unions by employers.






Unfair labour practices




5

(1)


An employer or a person acting on behalf of an employer must not
refuse to purchase fish from a person because the person




(a)

is or proposes to become or seeks to induce another person to become a
member or officer of a trade union, or




(b)

participates in the promotion, formation or administration of a trade
union.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), this Act must not be interpreted to limit or
otherwise affect the right of an employer to make a change in the
operation of the employer's business reasonably necessary for the
proper conduct of that business.




(3)

Section 14 of the Code applies with respect to an act prohibited by
this section.






Successor rights




6


Section 35 of the Code does not apply with respect to the sale of a
fishing vessel.






Strike or lockout




7


Despite section 57 of the Code, a strike or lockout arising from
collective bargaining in respect of a species of fish is not unlawful
only because it occurs during the term of a collective agreement in
respect of a different species of fish.






Dismissal provision in collective agreement




8


Section 84 (1) and (3) of the Code does not apply




(a)

to a collective agreement in respect of the price or minimum price of
fish, or




(b)

to an employment relationship where the employer maintains no control
over the discipline or dismissal of the employee.






Determination of appropriate unit




9


When the board, under section 22.1 (a) of the Code, is determining
whether a unit is appropriate for collective bargaining, it may
consider, in addition to other matters it considers relevant, the
manner in which negotiations in the fishing industry have taken place
in the past, including such matters as whether negotiations have taken
place based on fish species and gear type.






First collective agreement




10


Section 55 of the Code does not apply to collective bargaining between
a trade union and an employer if the trade union and the employer have
negotiated one or more collective agreements with each other before
June 30, 1994.






Change during certification or bargaining




11

(1)


Despite section 32 (1) of the Code, an employer may alter the price or
minimum price that it offers for fish while an application for
certification is pending.




(2)

Despite section 45 (1) (b) of the Code, an employer may alter the
price or minimum price that it offers for fish during the 4 month
period following certification.




(3)

Despite section 45 (2) of the Code, an employer may alter the price or
minimum price that it offers for fish if the term of a collective
agreement that was in force between the parties has expired.




(4)

This section does not apply where the alteration is made in a manner
inconsistent with section 5, 6, 9 or 11 of the Code or
section 5 of this Act.






Effect of certification




12


It is not inconsistent with section 27 (1) (a) or section 48 of the
Code for an employer to pay bonuses or make other payments to
employees above the minimum price in a collective agreement.






Refusal to purchase fish




13


This Act must not be construed to prohibit a refusal to purchase fish
for a cause not constituting a lockout.






Jurisdiction of Labour Relations Board




14


The board has exclusive jurisdiction to decide a question arising
under this Act, including jurisdiction to decide




(a)

that a person may be an employee for some purposes and an employer for
other purposes, and




(b)

that the relationship between a person engaged in commercial fishing
and a purchaser of fish constitutes an employment relationship.




