




Foreign Arbitral Awards Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 154






Definition




1


In this Act,
"Convention"
means the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement
of Foreign Arbitral Awards set out in the Schedule.






Convention applies in British Columbia




2


The Convention applies in British Columbia.






Limitation




3


This Act applies only to the recognition and enforcement of awards
respecting differences arising out of legal relationships, whether
contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the law
of British Columbia.






Court




4


For the purpose of seeking recognition of a foreign arbitral award
under this Act, applications may be made to the Supreme Court.






This Act prevails




5


If there is conflict between this Act and any other enactment, this
Act prevails.




Schedule



Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral
Awards


Article I

1  This Convention shall apply to the recognition and
enforcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of a State other
than the State where the recognition and enforcement of such awards are
sought, and arising out of differences between persons, whether physical
or legal. It shall also apply to arbitral awards not considered as
domestic awards in the State where their recognition and enforcement are
sought.


2  The term "arbitral awards" shall include not only awards
made by arbitrators appointed for each case but also those made by
permanent arbitral bodies to which the parties have submitted.


3  When signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, or
notifying extension under article X hereof, any State may on the
basis of reciprocity declare that it will apply the Convention to the
recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of
another Contracting State. It may also declare that it will apply the
Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships,
whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the
national law of the State making such declaration.

Article II

1  Each Contracting State shall recognize an agreement in
writing under which the parties undertake to submit to arbitration all
or any differences which have arisen or which may arise between them in
respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not,
concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration.


2  The term "agreement in writing" shall include an arbitral
clause in a contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties
or contained in an exchange of letters or telegrams.


3  The court of a Contracting State, when seized of an action
in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement
within the meaning of this article, shall, at the request of one of the
parties, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it finds that the said
agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.

Article III

Each Contracting State shall recognize arbitral awards as binding and
enforce them in accordance with the rules of procedure of the territory
where the award is relied upon, under the conditions laid down in the
following articles. There shall not be imposed substantially more
onerous conditions or higher fees or charges on the recognition or
enforcement of arbitral awards to which this Convention applies than are
imposed on the recognition or enforcement of domestic arbitral awards.

Article IV

1  To obtain the recognition and enforcement mentioned in the
preceding article, the party applying for recognition and enforcement
shall, at the time of the application, supply:


(a) The duly authenticated original award or a duly certified copy
thereof;


(b) The original agreement referred to in article II or a duly certified
copy thereof.


2  If the said award or agreement is not made in an official
language of the country in which the award is relied upon, the party
applying for recognition and enforcement of the award shall produce a
translation of these documents into such language. The translation shall
be certified by an official or sworn translator or by a diplomatic or
consular agent.

Article V

1  Recognition and enforcement of the award may be refused, at
the request of the party against whom it is invoked, only if that party
furnishes to the competent authority where the recognition and
enforcement is sought, proof that:


(a) The parties to the agreement referred to in article II were, under
the law applicable to them, under some incapacity, or the said agreement
is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or,
failing any indication thereon, under the law of the country where the
award was made; or


(b) The party against whom the award is invoked was not given proper
notice of the appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitration
proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or


(c) The award deals with a difference not contemplated by or not falling
within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it contains
decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration,
provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can
be separated from those not so submitted, that part of the award which
contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may be recognized
and enforced; or


(d) The composition of the arbitral authority or the arbitral procedure
was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, or, failing
such agreement, was not in accordance with the law of the country where
the arbitration took place; or


(e) The award has not yet become binding on the parties, or has been set
aside or suspended by a competent authority of the country in which, or
under the law of which, that award was made.


2  Recognition and enforcement of an arbitral award may also
be refused if the competent authority in the country where recognition
and enforcement is sought finds that:


(a) The subject matter of the difference is not capable of settlement by
arbitration under the law of that country; or


(b) The recognition or enforcement of the award would be contrary to the
public policy of that country.

Article VI

If an application for the setting aside or suspension of the award has
been made to a competent authority referred to in article V (1) (e), the
authority before which the award is sought to be relied upon may, if it
considers it proper, adjourn the decision on the enforcement of the
award and may also, on the application of the party claiming enforcement
of the award, order the other party to give suitable security.

Article VII

1  The provisions of the present Convention shall not affect
the validity of multilateral or bilateral agreements concerning the
recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards entered into by the
Contracting States nor deprive any interested party of any right he may
have to avail himself of an arbitral award in the manner and to the
extent allowed by the law or the treaties of the country where such
award is sought to be relied upon.


2  The Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses of 1923 and the
Geneva Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1927
shall cease to have effect between Contracting States on their becoming
bound and to the extent that they become bound, by this Convention.

Article VIII

1  This Convention shall be open until 31 December 1958 for
signature on behalf of any Member of the United Nations and also on
behalf of any other State which is or hereafter becomes a member of any
specialized agency of the United Nations, or which is or hereafter
becomes a party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice, or
any other State to which an invitation has been addressed by the General
Assembly of the United Nations.


2  This Convention shall be ratified and the instruments of
ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United
Nations.

Article IX

1  This Convention shall be open for accession to all States
referred to in article VIII.


2  Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument
of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Article X

1  Any State may, at the time of signature, ratification or
accession, declare that this Convention shall extend to all or any of
the territories for the international relations of which it is
responsible. Such a declaration shall take effect when the Convention
enters into force for the State concerned.


2  At any time thereafter any such extension shall be made by
notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and shall take effect as from the ninetieth day after the day of receipt
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of this notification, or
as from the date of entry into force of the Convention for the State
concerned, whichever is the later.


3  With respect to those territories to which this Convention
is not extended at the time of signature, ratification or accession,
each State concerned shall consider the possibility of taking the
necessary steps in order to extend the application of this Convention to
such territories, subject, where necessary for constitutional reasons,
to the consent of the Governments of such territories.

Article XI

In the case of a federal or non-unitary State, the following provisions
shall apply:


(a) With respect to those articles of this Convention that come within
the legislative jurisdiction of the federal authority, the obligations
of the federal Government shall to this extent be the same as those of
Contracting States which are not federal States;


(b) With respect to those articles of this Convention that come within
the legislative jurisdiction of constituent states or provinces which
are not, under the constitutional system of the federation, bound to
take legislative action, the federal Government shall bring such
articles with a favourable recommendation to the notice of the
appropriate authorities of constituent states or provinces at the
earliest possible moment;


(c) A federal State Party to this Convention shall, at the request of
any other Contracting State transmitted through the Secretary-General of
the United Nations, supply a statement of the law and practice of the
federation and its constituent units in regard to any particular
provision of this Convention, showing the extent to which effect has
been given to that provision by legislative or other action.

Article XII

1  This Convention shall come into force on the ninetieth day
following the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification or
accession.


2  For each State ratifying or acceding to this Convention
after the deposit of the third instrument of ratification or accession,
this Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after
deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification or accession.

Article XIII

1  Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention by a
written notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the
notification by the Secretary-General.


2  Any State which has made a declaration or notification
under article X may, at any time thereafter, by notification to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, declare that this Convention
shall cease to extend to the territory concerned one year after the date
of the receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General.


3  This Convention shall continue to be applicable to arbitral
awards in respect of which recognition or enforcement proceedings have
been instituted before the denunciation takes effect.

Article XIV

A Contracting State shall not be entitled to avail itself of the present
Convention against other Contracting States except to the extent that it
is itself bound to apply the Convention.

Article XV

The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall notify the States
contemplated in article VIII of the following:


(a) Signatures and ratifications in accordance with article VIII;

(b) Accessions in accordance with article IX;

(c) Declarations and notifications under articles I, X and XI;


(d) The date upon which this Convention enters into force in accordance
with article XII;


(e) Denunciations and notifications in accordance with article XIII.

Article XVI

1  This Convention, of which the Chinese, English, French,
Russian and Spanish texts shall be equally authentic, shall be deposited
in the archives of the United Nations.


2  The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit
a certified copy of this Convention to the States contemplated in
article VIII.



