




King's Counsel Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 393






Attorney General to be appointed King's Counsel




1


On the appointment of a person to the office of the Attorney General
of British Columbia, a commission must be issued appointing the person
one of His Majesty's Counsel learned in the law.






Power of Lieutenant Governor in Council to appoint King's Counsel




2

(1)


On the recommendation of the Attorney General, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council, by letters patent under the Great Seal, may appoint,
from among the members of the Bar of British Columbia, Provincial
officers under the names of His Majesty's Counsel learned in the
law for the Province of British Columbia.




(2)

Before making a recommendation under subsection (1), the Attorney
General must consult with




(a)

the Chief Justice of British Columbia,




(b)

the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,




(b.1)

the Chief Judge of the Provincial Court, and




(c)

2 members of the Law Society of British Columbia appointed by the
benchers for that purpose.






Quota




3


The maximum number of persons who may be appointed as
His Majesty's Counsel learned in the law is 7% of the number of
barristers and solicitors in British Columbia at the time the
appointment is made.






Eligibility for appointment




4


A person is not eligible to be appointed unless the person has at
least 5 years' standing at the Bar of British Columbia.






When appointments may be made




5


The quota for the year or the quota as increased under section 3 may
be made at any time during the year.






Precedence of certain members of Bar




6

(1)


The following members of the Bar of British Columbia have precedence
in the courts of British Columbia in the following order:




(a)

the Attorney General of Canada;




(b)

the Attorney General of British Columbia;




(c)

the members of the Bar who have filled the offices of Attorney General
of Canada while a member of the Bar of British Columbia, or Attorney
General of British Columbia, according to seniority of appointment as
Attorney General;




(d)

the members of the Bar who have filled the office of Solicitor General
for Canada according to seniority of appointment as Solicitor General;




(e)

the members of the Bar of British Columbia appointed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council Her or His Majesty's Counsel learned in the
law for British Columbia.




(2)

All persons mentioned in subsection (1) (e) have precedence among
themselves in the order established in the letters patent issued under
section 2.




(3)

Any precedence established in letters patents issued before the date
this subsection comes into force in relation to persons mentioned in
subsection (1) (e) continues to apply.






Precedence of other members of Bar




7


The remaining members of the Bar have, as between themselves,
precedence in the courts in the order of their call to the Bar.






Precedence of counsel acting for the government not affected by this
Act




8


This Act does not affect rights or precedence of a member of the Bar
when acting as counsel for the government, or an Attorney General, in
a matter in the name of the government or of the Attorney General
before the courts, and the right and precedence remains as if this Act
had not been passed.






Power of Lieutenant Governor in Council to revoke King's Counsel
appointment




9

(1)


On the recommendation of the Attorney General, the Lieutenant Governor
in Council, by letters patent under the Great Seal, may revoke an
appointment made under section 2.




(2)

Before making a recommendation referred to in subsection (1), the
Attorney General must consult with




(a)

the Chief Justice of British Columbia,




(b)

the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,




(c)

the Chief Judge of the Provincial Court, and




(d)

2 members of the Law Society of British Columbia appointed by the
benchers for that purpose.




(3)

This section applies in relation to an appointment whether




(a)

the appointment is made before or after the date this section comes
into force, or




(b)

the reason for the revocation occurs before or after the date this
section comes into force.






Automatic revocation of King's Counsel appointment on disbarment




10

(1)


If a person who is appointed under section 2 is disbarred under the

Legal Profession Act

on or after the date this section comes into force, the person's
appointment is revoked on the date of the disbarment.




(2)

Subsection (1) applies in relation to an appointment whether the
appointment is made before or after the date this section comes into
force.




(3)

If a person who is appointed under section 2 is disbarred under the

Legal Profession Act

before the date this section comes into force, the person's
appointment is revoked on the date this section comes into force.




