




Public Education Labour Relations Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 382




Part 1 — Introductory Provisions





Definitions




1


In this Act:



"bargaining unit"

means the bargaining unit referred to in section 5;



"board of education"

means a board as defined in the

School Act

and includes a francophone education authority as defined in the

School Act

;



"employers' association"

means the employers' association established for boards of education
under section 6 of the

Public Sector Employers Act

;



"francophone teacher"

has the same meaning as in the

School Act

;



"local matters"

means matters that are designated under section 7 as matters to
be determined by collective bargaining between teachers' unions and
boards of education;



"Provincial matters"

means matters that are designated under section 7 as matters to
be determined by collective bargaining between the employers'
association and the Provincial union;



"Provincial union"

means the British Columbia Teachers' Federation, or other union
certified for the bargaining unit;



"support staff union"

means a trade union representing employees of a board of education
other than teachers;


"teacher"
means a person included in the bargaining unit;



"teachers' union"

means a trade union representing the teachers employed by a board of
education.






Purpose




2


The purpose of this Act is




(a)

to improve collective bargaining practices and procedures in the
public school system,




(b)

to establish a Provincial two-tiered system of collective bargaining
for boards of education and trade unions representing teachers,




(b.1)

to establish the employers' association as the accredited bargaining
agent for the purpose of bargaining collectively with support staff
unions, and




(c)

to promote positive working relationships in the public school system.






Application of
Labour Relations Code




3

(1)


The

Labour Relations Code

and the regulations made under it apply in respect of the matters to
which this Act applies, but if there is a conflict or inconsistency
between this Act and the

Labour Relations Code

, this Act applies.




(2)

The Labour Relations Board has exclusive jurisdiction to decide a
question arising under this Act.




Part 2 — Bargaining Structure





Employer bargaining agent




4


For the purpose of bargaining collectively with a teachers' union or a
support staff union, the employers' association




(a)

is deemed to be the accredited bargaining agent for every board of
education in British Columbia, and




(b)

has exclusive authority to bargain collectively for the boards of
education and to bind the boards of education by collective agreement.






Teacher bargaining unit




5

(1)


For the purpose of teacher collective bargaining, the bargaining unit
is deemed to consist of all teachers and all francophone teachers, as
defined in the

School Act

, and includes those employees of a board of education referred to in
Schedule 1 or included in the bargaining unit under subsection (2).




(2)

The Labour Relations Board may include additional employees in the
bargaining unit or exclude employees from the bargaining unit if it
considers that the inclusion or exclusion of the employees would be
consistent with the purposes of this Act.






Employee bargaining agent




6

(1)


For the purpose of teacher collective bargaining, the British Columbia
Teachers' Federation




(a)

is deemed to be the certified bargaining agent for the employees in
the bargaining unit, and




(b)

has exclusive authority to bargain collectively for the bargaining
unit and to bind it by a collective agreement.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), sections 18, 19 and 33 of the

Labour Relations Code

with respect to the change of bargaining agents and revocation of
bargaining rights apply to union representation of the bargaining
unit.




Part 3 — Collective Bargaining





Content of collective agreement




7

(1)


The collective agreement entered into under this Act with respect to
teachers must include all Provincial matters and local matters that
have been agreed on by the parties.




(2)

Subject to subsection (3), the employers' association and the
Provincial union must designate the Provincial matters and local
matters to be determined by collective bargaining.




(3)

All cost provisions, within the meaning set out in subsection (4), are
deemed to be Provincial matters.




(4)

In subsection (3),
"cost provisions"
includes all provisions relating to




(a)

salaries and benefits,




(b)

workload, including, without limitation, class size restrictions, and




(c)

time worked and paid leave,


that affect the cost of the collective agreement.




(4.1)

In addition to the matters referred to in subsection (3), matters
referred to in section 28 (1) (a) and (b) of the

School Act

respecting workload, including, without limitation, class size
restrictions, are deemed to be Provincial matters.




(5)

If the employers' association and the Provincial union are unable to
agree on a designation under subsection (2) in the negotiations for
the first Provincial agreement only, on the request of both parties or
on the minister's own motion, the minister responsible for the
administration of the

Labour Relations Code

may appoint a person to arbitrate a dispute with respect to the
designation.




(6)

Section 55 of the

Labour Relations Code

does not apply with respect to collective bargaining under this Act.






Agreements on local matters




8

(1)


The employers' association must establish policies and procedures with
respect to delegation of authority to boards of education to enter
into local agreements with teachers' unions in respect of any local
matters, except as provided in subsection (4).




(2)

The Provincial union must establish policies and procedures with
respect to delegation of authority to teachers' unions to enter into
local agreements with boards of education in respect of any of the
local matters, except as provided in subsection (4).




(3)

If a board of education and a teachers' union are unable to agree with
respect to a local matter delegated to them under subsections (1) and
(2), either party may refer the dispute to Provincial bargaining.




(4)

The Provincial union and the employers' association must not delegate
authority to declare or authorize a strike or lockout, and no
teachers' union or board of education may declare or authorize a
strike or lockout.




Part 4 — Regulations





Power to make regulations




9

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations to amend Schedule 1 or 2.




Part 5 — Transitional





Transitional — collective agreements




10

(1)


In this section:



"local agreement"

means a collective agreement entered into between a board of education
and a teachers' union before the date on which this Act comes into
force;



"Provincial agreement"

means a collective agreement between the employers' association and
the Provincial union covering the employees in the bargaining unit.




(2)

Nothing in this Act requires the expiry or extinguishment of a local
agreement before the expiry date set out in the local agreement.




(3)

Despite any other provisions of this Act or the

Labour Relations Code

, the bargaining unit does not include employees covered by a local
agreement until the expiry of that local agreement.




(4)

Subject to subsection (5), if no Provincial agreement is in effect at
the expiry of a local agreement, the terms and conditions of
employment set out in the local agreement are deemed to remain in
effect until the date on which a Provincial agreement is concluded.




(5)

The provisions set out in Schedule 2 are deemed to be included in
a local agreement and to replace any provisions of the local agreement
that deal with the same or a similar matter.




(6)

If a Provincial agreement is in effect at the expiry of a local
agreement, the terms of the Provincial agreement apply to Provincial
matters, and the terms of the expired local agreement are continued
with respect to local matters to the extent that they do not conflict
with the Provincial agreement, the

School Act

or any other enactment.




(7)

Employees whose local agreements have not expired must not participate
in a strike vote or a strike.




(8)

Employers whose local agreements have not expired must not participate
in a lockout vote or a lockout.




(9)

A local agreement that expires after June 30, 1994 may be
terminated on a specific date that is before the expiry date in the
local agreement if




(a)

before July 1, 1994, the teachers' union gives written notice to
the board of education, the Provincial union and the employers'
association that the agreement will expire on June 30, 1994,
or




(b)

after June 30, 1994, the teachers' union and the board of
education give written notice of a specific date of expiry to the
Provincial union and to the employers' association, provided that the
notice is received on or before the specified date of expiry.




(10)

If a local agreement is terminated under subsection (9), subsection
(4) applies to the terms and conditions in the local agreement as they
read on June 30, 1994 or, if another date of expiry is specified, as
of the specified date.






Transitional — accreditations




11


The accreditation of any employers' organization as bargaining agent
for any board of education that is in force on the day on which this
Act comes into force is cancelled and any rights or obligations of the
employers' organization with respect to the accreditation are
transferred to the employers' association.






Transitional — regulations




12

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations considered
necessary or advisable for the purpose of more effectively bringing
into operation this Act and to prevent any transitional difficulties
encountered in so doing, and without limiting the generality of this,
the regulations may, for a period the Lieutenant Governor in Council
specifies, suspend the operation of a provision of an enactment if
that provision would impede the effective operation of this Act.




(2)

Unless earlier repealed, a regulation under subsection (1) is repealed
one year after it is enacted.




Schedule 1


(Section 5)





Employer


Employees




School District No. 23 —

Central Okanagan


Speech/language pathologists and physiotherapists employed by The
Board of School Trustees of School District No. 23 (Central
Okanagan) in the School District.




School District No. 13 —

Kettle Valley


Persons employed to substitute for teachers.




School District No. 69 —

Qualicum


Speech pathologists and occupational therapists employed by The
Board of School Trustees of School District No. 69 (Qualicum) in
the School District.




School District No. 43 —

Coquitlam


Associated Professionals within School District No. 43
(Coquitlam).




School District No. 34 —

Abbotsford


Speech therapists and multicultural itinerant employed by The
Board of School Trustees of School District No. 34 (Abbotsford) in
the School District.




School District No. 64 —

Gulf Islands


Speech/language pathologists employed by The Board of School
Trustees of School District No. 64 (Gulf Islands) in the School
District.




School District No. 35 —

Langley


Persons employed to give tuition or instruction in courses in
English as a Second Language (E.S.L.) at the Langley Education
Centre (Sundel) and the Aldergrove Education Centre.






Schedule 2


(Section 10 (5))


Conflict


1 In the event of any conflict between the
Public Education Labour Relations Act
and a provision of this collective agreement, the provisions of that Act
prevail.


Employer bargaining representative


2 The employers' association established for boards of education under
section 6 of the
Public Sector Employers Act
is the exclusive bargaining representative for the board of education
under the
Public Education Labour Relations Act
.


Union recognition


3 (1) The board of education recognizes the Provincial union established
under the
Public Education Labour Relations Act
as the bargaining agent for employees covered by this agreement in
accordance with that Act.


(2) Any right provided to the union under the terms of this agreement is
also provided to the Provincial union, except as affected by the
Public Education Labour Relations Act
.


Leave of absence for Provincial bargaining


4 The board of education shall grant a leave of absence without pay to
an employee designated by the Provincial union for the purpose of
participating in collective bargaining activities on behalf of the
Provincial union.








[Note: section 4 of Schedule 2 of the Public Education Labour
Relations Act, re-enacted effective January 31, 1997,
B.C. Reg. 26/97; re-enactment not included.]






