




Riparian Areas Protection Act
[SBC 1997] CHAPTER 21


Assented to July 28, 1997






Definition




1


In this Act,
"local government"
means




(a)

the council of a municipality,




(b)

the board of a regional district, and




(c)

a local trust committee as defined in section 1 of the

Islands Trust Act

.






Repealed




2-4


[Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Not in force. Repealed




5


[Not in force. Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Repealed




6-7


[Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Not in force. Repealed




8


[Not in force. Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Repealed




9


[Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Not in force. Repealed




10-11


[Not in force. Repealed 2014-15-163.]






Provincial directives on streamside protection




12

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by
regulation, establish directives regarding the protection and
enhancement of riparian areas that the Lieutenant Governor in Council
considers may be subject to residential, commercial or industrial
development.




(2)

Directives under subsection (1) may only be established after
consultation by the minister with representatives of the Union of
British Columbia Municipalities.




(3)

Directives under subsection (1) may be different for different parts
of British Columbia and in relation to different local government
powers and different circumstances as established by the directives.




(4)

If a directive under subsection (1) applies, a local government must




(a)

include in its zoning and land use bylaws riparian area protection
provisions in accordance with the directive, or




(b)

ensure that its bylaws and permits under Part 14 of the

Local Government Act

or Part XXVII of the

Vancouver Charter

, as applicable, provide a level of protection that, in the opinion of
the local government, is comparable to or exceeds that established by
the directive.




(5)

For the purpose of transition, a directive under subsection (1) may
establish a time period during which a local government to which the
directive applies must review and, if necessary, amend its bylaws in
order that they meet the requirements of subsection (4) by the end of
the period.




(6)

On request by a local government, the minister may extend a time
period under subsection (5).






Regulation-making authority




13

(1)


The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the

Interpretation Act

.




(2)

Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations respecting the directives established under
section 12, including, without limitation, the following regulations:




(a)

providing that a local government must not approve or allow a
residential, commercial or industrial development to proceed in an
area wholly or partially within all or a prescribed portion of a
riparian area unless the prescribed requirements are met;




(b)

providing that a prescribed requirement referred to in paragraph (a)
may include either or both of the following:




(i)

that the government of British Columbia or Canada has been notified of
the development and provided with studies, assessments, reports or
opinions regarding the impact of the proposed development on the
natural features, functions and conditions that support fish life
processes in the riparian area;




(ii)

that any serious harm to fish, as described in section 2 (2) of the

Fisheries Act

(Canada), that results from the proposed development is authorized
under that Act;




(c)

requiring a local government to impose as a condition of an approval
of a development that the developer comply with any measures
recommended in a report or opinion of a person with prescribed
qualifications;




(d)

requiring the engagement of a person with prescribed qualifications to
perform studies and assessments, make reports and provide opinions in
relation to a prescribed requirement referred to in paragraph (a);




(e)

establishing methods and criteria for the studies, assessments,
reports and opinions referred to in paragraph (d);




(e.1)

establishing methods and criteria under paragraph (e) by reference to
a technical manual published under section 13.1 if the reference is
for the purpose of providing that




(i)

a study, assessment, report or opinion is to be performed, made or
provided in accordance with the manual, and




(ii)

the minister may refuse to accept a study, assessment, report or
opinion that is not performed, made or provided in accordance with the
manual or is not complete;




(f)

authorizing a prescribed person, on application in a particular case,
to vary methods and criteria established under paragraph (e) on
prescribed conditions or in prescribed circumstances;




(g)

requiring a local government to cooperate in developing strategies
with the government of British Columbia or Canada in relation to




(i)

monitoring and reporting on the effect of developments on riparian
areas,




(ii)

public education respecting protection of riparian areas, and




(iii)

implementation and compliance with recommendations in a report or
opinion of a person with prescribed qualifications;




(h)

defining words or phrases used but not defined in this Act.






Technical manuals




13.1

(1)


The minister may publish technical manuals for the purposes of section
13 (2) (e.1).




(2)

Manuals under subsection (1) must be published in a manner that can
reasonably be expected to bring the manuals to the attention of




(a)

local governments, and




(b)

persons engaged to perform the studies or assessments, make the
reports or provide the opinions referred to in section
13 (2) (d).




Consequential Amendments









[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
14 to 35.]









Section(s)



Affected Act




14-16




Waste Management Act





17-24




Water Act





25-35




Wildlife Act









Not in force. Repealed




36


[Not in force. Repealed 2014-15-166.]






Commencement




37

(1)


Section 4 is deemed to have come into force on May 15, 1997,
being the date this Act received First Reading in the Legislative
Assembly, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect
on and after that date.




(2)

This Act, except section 4, comes into force by regulation of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council.




