




Treaty Commission Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 461






Definitions and interpretation




1

(1)


In this Act:


"agreement"
means the British Columbia Treaty Commission Agreement executed among
the Summit, Her Majesty in right of Canada and Her Majesty in right of
British Columbia on September 21, 1992, and includes any
amendments to it that may be made from time to time;


"commission"
means the British Columbia Treaty Commission established as set out in
section 3;



"first nation"

means an aboriginal governing body, however organized and established
by aboriginal people within their traditional territory in British
Columbia, that has been mandated by its constituents to enter into
treaty negotiations on their behalf with Her Majesty in right of
Canada and Her Majesty in right of British Columbia;


"principals"
means Her Majesty in right of Canada, Her Majesty in right of British
Columbia and the Summit;


"Summit"
means the body that is established to represent first nations in
British Columbia that agree to participate in the process provided for
in the agreement to facilitate the negotiation of treaties among first
nations, Her Majesty in right of Canada and Her Majesty in right of
British Columbia.




(2)

For the purpose of the application of any enactment,
"person"
includes the commission.






Purpose




2


The purpose of this Act is to establish the British Columbia Treaty
Commission, as undertaken in the agreement.






Jointly established commission




3

(1)


There is established by the joint operation of this Act, of an Act of
the Parliament of Canada and of a resolution of the Summit the British
Columbia Treaty Commission consisting of the chief commissioner and
not more than 4 other commissioners.




(2)

For all purposes except the application to the commission of the

Access to Information Act

(Canada) and the

Privacy Act

(Canada), the commission must be treated as having been established
under an Act of the Legislature of British Columbia.






Commission not an agent




4


The commission is not an agent of any of the principals.






Purpose, powers and duties of the commission




5

(1)


The purpose of the commission is to facilitate, in British Columbia,
the negotiation of treaties among one or more first nations, Her
Majesty in right of Canada and Her Majesty in right of British
Columbia.




(2)

The commission has the power and capacity of a natural person,
including the power to sue and be sued, to enter into contracts and to
acquire, hold and dispose of property for its purpose.




(3)

In furthering its purpose, the commission must




(a)

assess the readiness of Her Majesty in right of Canada, Her Majesty in
right of British Columbia and one or more first nations to begin
negotiations, in accordance with the agreement,




(b)

allocate funds that have been provided to enable first nations to
participate in negotiations in accordance with criteria agreed to by
the principals,




(c)

encourage timely negotiations,




(d)

if Her Majesty in right of Canada, Her Majesty in right of British
Columbia and the first nations who are taking part in negotiations all
agree, assist them in obtaining dispute resolution services,




(e)

prepare and maintain a public record of the status of the
negotiations, and




(f)

perform any other duties that are consistent with the agreement and
this Act.






Prior commissioners




6

(1)


In this section,
"prior commissioner"
means any person who, at any time before March 1, 1996, was a
commissioner under an appointment made by resolution of the Summit, an
order of the Governor in Council or an order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council or jointly by the Summit, the Governor in Council
and the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(2)

The prior commissioners in office on March 1, 1996 are confirmed and
continue as commissioners on and after the date of the establishment
of the commission as though they had been appointed under section 7
(1).




(3)

The commission has all the rights, property and interests in existence
on March 1, 1996 that were acquired by, and is responsible
instead of any prior commissioner for all the debts, liabilities and
obligations in existence on that date that were incurred by, a prior
commissioner in the performance of that person's duties as a
commissioner.






Appointment of commissioners




7

(1)


One commissioner is to be appointed by order of the Governor in
Council, one commissioner is to be appointed by order of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council, 2 commissioners are to be appointed by
resolution of the Summit and the chief commissioner is to be appointed
jointly by the Governor in Council, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
and the Summit.




(2)

The chief commissioner may be appointed for a term not exceeding 3
years, and the other commissioners each may be appointed for a term
not exceeding 2 years.






Removal




8

(1)


The chief commissioner holds office during pleasure and may be removed
jointly by the Governor in Council, the Lieutenant Governor in Council
and the Summit.




(2)

A commissioner other than the chief commissioner holds office during
pleasure and may be removed by the person or body that appointed that
commissioner.






Reappointment




9


A commissioner or former commissioner may be reappointed.






Chief executive officer




10

(1)


The chief commissioner is the chief executive officer of the
commission and has supervision over and direction of the day to day
operations of the commission.




(2)

In the event of the absence or incapacity of the chief commissioner or
if that office is vacant, the other commissioners may designate, by
unanimous agreement, one of them to act as chief commissioner during
the absence, incapacity or vacancy, and the designated commissioner
has and may exercise all of the powers and perform all of the duties
and functions of the chief commissioner.






Terms and conditions of appointment




11


After the principals have reached agreement, the remuneration and
other terms and conditions of the appointment of the commissioners are
to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council, order of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council and resolution of the Summit.






Office in British Columbia




12


The office of the commission must be in British Columbia.






Quorum




13

(1)


The chief commissioner, the commissioner appointed by the Governor
General in Council, the commissioner appointed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council and one commissioner appointed by the Summit
constitutes a quorum of the commission.




(2)

For purposes of determining a quorum, an acting chief commissioner
must be counted both as chief commissioner and as a commissioner
appointed by the principal that appointed that commissioner.






Meetings and decisions of the commission




14

(1)


The chief commissioner presides at meetings of the commission.




(2)

Decisions of the commission must be made by agreement of at least one
commissioner appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
Governor in Council and the Summit, respectively.






Decisions of the Summit




15


Her Majesty in right of Canada and Her Majesty in right of British
Columbia are entitled to rely on resolutions of the Summit that are
certified in the manner specified by the Summit as proof of the
decisions of the Summit that are set out in the resolutions as
certified.






Protection of commission members




16


Her Majesty in right of British Columbia must not make any civil claim
against the commission, any commissioner, or any employee of or person
retained by the commission, for anything done, omitted, reported or
said, in the course of the exercise or performance or purported
exercise or performance of any power, duty or function under this Act,
unless the claim arises from the wilful misconduct or gross negligence
of the commissioner, employee or person retained.






Commissioners to be indemnified




17


Her Majesty in right of British Columbia indemnifies, in proportion to
her funding obligations as set out in the agreement, the commissioners
against all claims, damages or penalties that are made against or
incurred by the commissioners in the exercise or performance of their
powers, duties and functions under this Act, unless the claims,
damages or penalties arise from the commissioners' wilful misconduct
or gross negligence.






Commission personnel




18

(1)


The commission may employ or retain the persons who are necessary to
perform the duties and functions of the commission.




(2)

The

Public Service Act

and the

Public Service Labour Relations Act

do not apply to the commission and its employees.






Pension




19


The Public Service Pension Plan, continued under the

Public Sector Pension Plans Act

, applies to the commission and to the employees of the commission.






Bylaws




20


The commission may make bylaws consistent with this Act and the
agreement respecting the carrying out of the work of the commission,
the management of its internal affairs and the duties of its officers
and employees and of the persons retained by it.






Annual budget




21


The commission must submit its budget for each financial year to the
principals for review and approval before the deadline set by the
principals.






Audit




22


The accounts and financial transactions of the commission must be
audited annually by a qualified independent auditor designated by the
commission, and a report of the audit must be made to the commission.






Annual report




23

(1)


As soon as possible, but in any case within 6 months, after the end of
each of its financial years, the commission must submit to the
principals a report of all activities under this Act for that
financial year, including the financial statements and the auditor's
report.




(2)

The report submitted under subsection (1) must contain information
with respect to the progress of negotiations facilitated by the
commission and the other operations of the commission and any other
matter that the commission considers appropriate.




(3)

The minister must cause a copy of the report submitted under
subsection (1) to be laid before the Legislative Assembly within the
first 30 days that the House is sitting after the report is made.






Agreement




24

(1)


Nothing in this Act must be interpreted as preventing the principals
from amending the agreement.




(2)

The commission must keep at its office a copy of the agreement and
make a copy of it available at any time during usual business hours
for inspection by any person.




