




Woodworker Lien Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 491






Definitions




1


In this Act:



"labour or services"

includes cutting, skidding, felling, hauling, scaling, banking,
driving, running, rafting or booming logs or timber, and any work done
by cooks, blacksmiths, artisans and others usually employed in
connection with it, and any work done by engineers and all other
persons employed in any capacity in or about a mill or factory where
lumber of any description is manufactured;



"logs or timber"

includes logs, timber, piles, posts, telegraph and telephone poles,
ties, mining props, tan bark, shingle bolts and staves, or lumber of
any description manufactured from them.






Lien on logs or timber




2

(1)


In this section,

"person performing labour or services"

includes cooks, blacksmiths, artisans and all others usually employed
in connection with labour or services, and physicians, surgeons and
others entitled to receive payments from or out of any fund made up
from deductions by an employer from the wages of those cooks,
blacksmiths, artisans and others, arising from the labour or services,
and set apart for payment of medical or surgical attendance and
service on those employees.




(2)

A person performing labour or services in connection with logs or
timber in British Columbia, or his or her assignee, has a lien on them
for the amount due for the labour or services.




(3)

A lien under subsection (2) is a first lien or charge on the logs or
timber, and has precedence over all other claims or liens on them,
except a lien or claim that




(a)

the government may have on the logs or timber for or in respect of any
dues or charges, or




(b)

a timber slide company, or an owner of slides and booms, may have on
the logs or timber, for or in respect of tolls.




(4)

If, under the

Employment Standards Act

or otherwise, an employer deducts from the wages of his or her
employees, being persons performing labour or services in connection
with logs or timber in British Columbia, a sum for the payment of or
for medical or surgical attendance and services on and for the
employees, a physician, surgeon or other person entitled to receive
the sum or a part of it or to payment from it has a lien on the logs
or timber for the amount due that person from the fund.




(5)

A lien under subsection (4) is a first lien or charge on the logs or
timber and has precedence over all other claims or liens on them,
except the liens or claims provided for in subsection (2).






Statement of lien must be filed in court registry




3

(1)


A lien arising under section 2 is void unless a statement of it is
filed in the office of a registrar of the Supreme Court within 30 days
after the last day the labour or services were performed.




(2)

The statement filed under subsection (1) must be accompanied by the
fee prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.




(3)

The statement must be in writing, verified on oath by the person
claiming the lien, or some person duly authorized on that person's
behalf and must set out briefly




(a)

the nature of the debt, demand or claim,




(b)

the amount due to the claimant, as near as may be, over and above all
legal set-offs or counterclaims, and




(c)

a description of the logs or timber on or against which the lien is
claimed.




(4)

The statement may be in the form in Schedule A, or to a similar
effect.




(5)

Despite subsection (1), a sale or transfer of the logs or timber on
which a lien is claimed under this Act during the time limited for the
filing of the notice of civil claim, and previous to the filing of it,
or after the filing of it and during the time limited for the
enforcement of it, does not in any way affect the lien, which remains
in force against the logs or timber in whose possession they are
found, except sawn timber sold in the ordinary course of business.






Enforcing lien




4

(1)


A person who has a lien on or against logs or timber may enforce it by
an action in the registry of the Supreme Court where the statement of
lien is filed.




(2)

The lien claim ceases to be a lien on the property named in the
statement unless the proceedings to enforce it are commenced within
30 days after the filing of the statement, or after the expiry of
the period of credit.




(3)

The person liable for payment of the debt or claim must be made the
defendant in the action.




(4)

There must be attached to or endorsed on the notice of civil claim in
the action a copy of the statement of lien filed under section 3, and
no other statement of particulars is necessary unless ordered by the
court.




(5)

If no defence or dispute note is filed, judgment may be signed and
execution issued according to the practice of the court.






Procedure




5

(1)


The court may do one or more of the following on the terms that the
court considers proper:




(a)

order particulars to be given, or proper or necessary amendments to be
made;




(b)

add or strike out the names of parties at any time;




(c)

set aside any judgment;




(d)

permit a defence or dispute note to be entered or filed.




(2)

The notice of civil claim in the action must be in the form, as nearly
as may be, in use in the court in which it is issued, and the practice
must follow, as nearly as may be, the practice of the court.




(3)

A notice of civil claim may be served anywhere in British Columbia in
the same manner as in other cases.




(4)

The judgment must declare that it is for wages, the amount of them and
costs, and that the plaintiff has a lien for them on the property
described when that is the case.






Sale under execution




6

(1)


If an execution has issued and has been placed in the sheriff's hands
for execution, and no attachment has been issued, the proceedings for
the enforcement of the lien must be by sale under the execution.




(2)

The proceedings relating to proof of other claims, the payment of
money into court, the distribution of the money, and otherwise, must,
as far as practicable, be the same as is provided in this Act for
proceedings on and subsequent to an attachment.






Proceeding may be by summary hearing




7

(1)


Whether commenced by notice of civil claim or attachment, the court
may direct that any proceeding must be disposed of summarily without
waiting for the regular sittings of the court, on the terms as to
notice and otherwise that the order provides.




(2)

The court may also summarily dispose of an application to set aside an
attachment or seizure, or to release logs or timber that have been
seized.






If attachment issues




8

(1)


If an attachment issues in the first instance, the notice of civil
claim and response to civil claim or dispute note, and proceedings to
judgment, may be the same as provided in sections 3 to 7.




(2)

If an action has been commenced by notice of civil claim, and if an
attachment issues after proceedings have been begun by notice of civil
claim, the proceedings must continue and be carried to judgment under
the notice of civil claim, except those that must be taken under the
attachment.






Seizure, when allowed




9

(1)


On the production and filing of the statement mentioned in
section 3 or a copy of it, and an affidavit made and sworn by the
claimant of the amount of the claim due and owing, and showing that it
has been duly filed, and stating that




(a)

the claimant has good reason to and does believe that the logs or
timber are about to be removed from British Columbia,




(b)

he has good reason to and does believe that the logs or timber are
about to be removed from the district or locality in which they then
lie,




(c)

the person indebted for the amount of the lien has absconded from
British Columbia with intent to defraud or defeat his creditors, or




(d)

the logs or timber are about to be cut into lumber or other timber so
that they cannot be identified, and




(e)

the claimant is in danger of losing his or her claim if an attachment
does not issue,


and if affidavits corroborating the affidavit of the plaintiff in
respect of paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) are also filed, the
registrar of the court who has jurisdiction in the matter must issue a
writ of attachment directed to the sheriff, commanding the sheriff to
attach, seize and take and safely keep the logs or timber, or the
portion of them that may be necessary to satisfy the amount claimed
and the costs of the action, and of the proceedings to enforce the
lien.




(2)

If additional claims are made, or the amount of claim is increased, or
a sufficient seizure has not been made, a second or subsequent seizure
may be made either under execution or attachment.






Concurrent writs




10

(1)


At any time within 6 months from the date of the original writ of
attachment, the plaintiff may issue from the office from which the
original writ issued one or more concurrent writs of attachment, to
bear test on the same day as the original writ, and to be marked by
the officer issuing them with the word "concurrent" in the margin.




(2)

The concurrent writs of attachment




(a)

may be directed to any sheriff other than the sheriff to whom the
original writ was issued, and




(b)

need not be sued out in duplicate or be served on the defendant, but
operate merely for the attachment of the logs or timber in aid of the
original writ.






Writ of attachment as summons




11

(1)


The writ of attachment must also, if no notice of civil claim has
issued, summon the defendant to appear before the court out of which
the attachment has issued.




(2)

A copy of the writ of attachment must be served on the defendant.




(3)

If the defendant is not the owner of the logs or timber described in
the writ, then a copy of the writ must also be served on the owner of
the logs or timber, or on the person or agent in whose possession,
custody or control they may be found, for the owner.




(4)

If the defendant or owner of the logs or timber cannot be found within
the jurisdiction of the court, and there is no one in possession of
the logs or timber, then a copy of the writ of attachment must be
forwarded to any sheriff or other constable or other competent person
in British Columbia within whose jurisdiction the defendant and owner,
or either of them, as the case may be, resides or may be found.




(5)

The copy of the writ of attachment may be served by that sheriff,
constable or person on the defendant or owner of the logs or timber.




(6)

The owner may, on his or her own application or by discretion of a
court, be made a defendant at the trial.




(7)

If the defendant or owner cannot be found in British Columbia, or the
owner cannot be ascertained, and no agent or person is in possession
for the owner, the writ may be served in the manner the court directs.




(8)

If the writ is to be served on an agent or other person in possession
of the logs or timber, an order of the court allowing the service is
necessary.




(9)

If the service has not been personal on either the defendant or owner,
and a proper defence has not been made, the court may, in its
discretion, admit them, or either of them, to make full defence, and
may make any order that is reasonable and just to all parties.




(10)

The sheriff, constable or person is, before making service, entitled
to demand payment of a sum sufficient to cover the amount of the
necessary disbursements in effecting it.






Logs or timber in transit or held for delivery




12

(1)


A sheriff or bailiff must not seize or detain logs or timber under
this Act when in transit from the place where cut to the place of
destination when the place of destination is within any of the
districts in which proceedings have been commenced.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), if the logs or timber are in transit, or are
in the possession of a booming company or other person for the purpose
of being driven or sorted and delivered to the owners, or to satisfy a
statutory lien, then attachment of the logs or timber may be made by
serving a copy of the attachment on the company or other person
driving or holding them, who, from the time of service, is deemed to
hold them, both on the person's own behalf and for the sheriff to the
extent of the lien, until the logs or timber can be driven and sorted
out.




(3)

When the logs or timber have been driven or sorted out, the sheriff
may receive the logs or timber from the company or other person, and
the statutory lien of the company or person is not released by the
holding of the sheriff or other officer.






Logs or timber to be released if bond given




13

(1)


In case of an attachment, the registrar must issue an order to the
sheriff having in charge the logs or timber directing their release if
the owner of the logs or timber, or a person in the owner's behalf,
executes and files with the registrar of the court out of which the
attachment has issued a good and sufficient bond to the person
claiming the lien, executed by 2 sureties and approved by the
registrar, and conditioned for the payment of all claims, damages,
costs, charges, disbursements and expenses that may be recovered by
the claimant in the proceedings, together with the amount for which a
lien is claimed in any other proceeding.




(2)

On service of an order under subsection (1), the sheriff must release
the logs or timber.






Time for filing dispute of claim after service of writ of attachment




14


A person who has been served with a copy of a writ of attachment under
sections 8 to 12, and who desires to dispute it, must within
14 days after the service enter in the court in which proceedings
are pending a notice that the person disputes all or part of the claim
on the lien.






Default judgment




15


If a notice of dispute is not entered under section 14, judgment
may be entered as in the case of default, and the practice or
procedure may be the same as in an action.






Payment into court




16

(1)


At any time after service of the writ of attachment and before the
sale of the logs or timber, the defendant may pay into court the
amount for which a lien is claimed in the proceeding, together with




(a)

the amount for which a lien is claimed in any other proceeding, and




(b)

the costs of the proceedings on them to the date of payment, taxed by
the registrar of the court if required.




(2)

The person making a payment under subsection (1) is then entitled to a
certificate vacating the lien, and on the certificate being filed with
the registrar of the court in which the original statement was filed,




(a)

the lien is vacated and all further proceedings on it must cease, and




(b)

the person making the payment is entitled to an order directing the
delivery up of the logs or timber seized under the attachment, or the
cancellation of any bond given under section 13.






Appointment and notice of hearing




17

(1)


After the expiration of the time for entry of a notice of dispute, on
the application of the claimant, the court must issue an appointment
naming a day on which all persons claiming a lien on the logs or
timber must appear in person, or by their solicitor or agent, before
the court for the adjustment of their claims and the settlement of
accounts.




(2)

If the court directs, the appointment must




(a)

be served on the defendants and on the owner, and




(b)

be published once a week for 2 weeks before the day named in the
appointment in a newspaper published in the judicial district in which
proceedings are pending, if a newspaper is published there, and if
not, then in a newspaper circulating in that district.




(3)

A copy of the appointment must be mailed by registered letter to every
holder of a claim known to the plaintiff as a holder at least 2 weeks
before the day named in the appointment, directed to the post office
address of the claimant if it is known, and if not known, then to the
claimant's last known address.






Hearing of claims




18

(1)


On the day named in the appointment and advertisement, the persons
served with a copy of it, and all other persons claiming a lien on the
logs or timber who have before that date filed with the registrar of
the proper court a notice claiming a lien on the logs or timber and
stating the nature and amount of the claim, must attend before the
court named in the appointment and advertisement.




(2)

If claims are brought in under a notice under subsection (1), they may
be established by affidavit.




(3)

Any interested party




(a)

is at liberty to cross examine the deponents, and




(b)

may require that the claim be established in open court as in other
cases.






Duties of court on hearing




19

(1)


The court must




(a)

hear all parties and take all accounts necessary to determine any
amounts due to them, or any other holders of liens who may be called
on by the court to prove their lien,




(b)

review their costs and determine who is to pay them and settle their
priorities, and




(c)

generally determine all matters necessary to adjust the rights of the
parties.




(2)

At the conclusion of the inquiry, the court must make its report and
order, which must state its findings and direct the payment into the
court in which proceedings are pending of any amounts found due and
the costs, within 10 days, and in default of payment, that the
logs or timber are to be sold by the sheriff for satisfaction of the
amounts found due to the several parties on the inquiry and costs.




(3)

If the court is satisfied, having regard to the saving of costs or
necessity of expedition of a sale, that the interests of all parties
before the court as well as of all the creditors will be better
served, the court may order that the logs or timber be sold without
delay by order of the court to the purchaser and at the price agreed
to by the parties before the court.






Sale of logs




20

(1)


In default of payment into court under section 19 within the time
named in the order, the logs or timber must, within 20 days after
that, be sold by the sheriff holding them, in the same manner and
subject to the same law as goods seized or taken in execution, unless
the court directs that additional publicity be given to the sale.




(2)

The amount realized by the sale must, after deducting the expenses of
it payable to the sheriff, be paid into the court in which the
proceedings are pending, and must, on the application of the parties
found to be entitled to it under the order of the court, be paid out
to them by the registrar of the court.




(3)

If the amount realized on the sale is not sufficient to pay the claims
in full and costs, the court must apportion the amounts realized
proportionately among the different claimants.






Balance remaining due after distribution




21

(1)


If after the sale and distribution of proceeds under section 20
an amount remains due to a person under the order of the court, the
registrar of the court must, on application of that person, give the
person a certificate that the amount remains due.




(2)

A certificate under subsection (1) may be entered as a judgment in any
court having jurisdiction against the person by whom the claim was
directed to be paid.




(3)

Execution may be issued on the certificate as in the case of other
judgments in the court.






Order discharging liens if nothing found due




22

(1)


If nothing is found due on the claims filed as mentioned in
section 18, or on the liens with respect to which proceedings
have been taken, the court may order that




(a)

the liens be discharged and the logs or timber released, or




(b)

the security given for them be delivered up and cancelled.




(2)

The court may order immediate payment of any costs which may be found
due to the defendant or the owner of the logs or timber.






Costs




23


The costs to be taxed to a party must, as far as possible, be
according to the tariff of costs in force for other proceedings in the
court in which proceedings under this Act have been taken.






Excess money paid into court




24


If more money is paid into court as the proceeds of the sale of logs
or timber than is required to satisfy the liens that are proved, and
interest and costs, the court may order payment out of the remaining
money to the party entitled to it.






Application to dismiss for want of prosecution




25


A person affected by proceedings taken under this Act may apply to the
court to dismiss them for want of prosecution, and the court may make
the order on the application as to costs or otherwise that is just.






Adding parties




26

(1)


The court may at any stage of proceedings under this Act, on the
application of a party or as it sees fit, order that a person who is a
necessary party to the proceedings be added as a party to them or be
served with a process or notice provided for by this Act.




(2)

The court may make an order as to the costs of adding the person or as
to service that is just.






Alternate remedies




27

(1)


This Act does not disentitle a person to another remedy than that
afforded by this Act for the recovery of an amount due in respect of
labour or services performed on or in connection with logs or timber.




(2)

If a proceeding is brought to enforce a lien but no lien is found due,
judgment may be directed for the amount found due as in an ordinary
case.






Lien holders may join in proceedings




28

(1)


Any number of lien holders may join in proceedings under this Act, or
may assign their claims to any person, but the statement to be filed
under section 3 must include particular statements of the
separate claims of persons joining.




(2)

One attachment may be issued on behalf of all the persons joining if




(a)

the claims are verified by their affidavits or those of a person duly
authorized on their behalf, or




(b)

separate statements are filed and verified as provided by this Act.






Consolidation of actions




29


If more than one action is commenced under this Act in respect of the
same logs or timber, the defendants, or any of them, must apply to
have the actions consolidated, and a person who fails to do so must
pay the costs of the additional actions.






Procedure of Supreme Court to apply




30


So far as it is not inconsistent with this Act, the procedure
regulating the practice in actions brought in the Supreme Court is to
regulate proceedings under this Act.






Who may take affidavits




31


Affidavits and affirmations under this Act may be sworn before a
commissioner for taking affidavits.






Liability to workers if payroll of wages not requested




32

(1)


A person entering a contract, engagement or agreement with another
person to furnish, supply or obtain logs or timber by which it is
necessary to engage and employ workers and labourers for those
purposes must, before making any payment for, or on behalf of, or
under the contract, engagement or agreement of a sum of money or in
kind, require the person to whom payment is to be made to produce and
furnish a payroll or sheet of the wages and amount due and owing and
of the payment of them or, if not paid, the amount of wages or pay due
and owing to all the workers or labourers employed or engaged on or
under the contract, engagement or agreement at the time when the logs
or timber are delivered or taken in charge for, or by or on behalf of,
the person making the payment and receiving the timber or logs.




(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1), the payroll or sheet may be in the
form in Schedule B.




(3)

A person who makes a payment under the contract, engagement or
agreement without requiring production of a receipted payroll or sheet
as mentioned in subsection (1) is liable, in an action taken by a
worker or labourer engaged under the contract, engagement or
agreement, for the amount of pay due and owing to that worker or
labourer.




(4)

The person to whom the payroll or sheet is given must retain, for the
use of the workers or labourers whose names are set out in the payroll
or sheet, the sums set opposite their respective names which have not
been paid.




(5)

The receipts of the workers or labourers are a sufficient discharge
for the sums referred to in subsection (4).




(6)

Subsections (1) to (5) do not apply to the purchase of manufactured
lumber purchased in the ordinary course of business.




Schedule A


Statement of Claim of Lien


A.B.
[name of claimant],
of
[here state residence of claimant]
(
if
so, as assignee of)
[here state name and address of assignor]
, under the
Woodworker Lien Act
, claims a lien on certain logs or timber of

[here state the name and residence of the owner of logs or timber on
which the lien is claimed, if known]

, composed of

[state the kinds of logs and timber, such as fir, sawlogs, cedar or
other posts or railway ties, shingle bolts or staves, etc., also where
located at time of filing of statement]

, in respect of the following work, that is to say

[here give a short description of the work done for which lien is
claimed]

, which work was done for

[here state the name and residence of the person on whose credit the
work was done]

, between the ....................................
[month, day, year]
, and the ....................................
[month, day, year]
,
[per month or day, as the case may be]
. The amount claimed as due
[or to become due]
is the sum of .........................
[when credit has been given]
(the work was done on credit, and the period of credit will expire on
....................................
[month, day, year]
).


Dated at....................................
[month, day, year].


(Signature of claimant)
....................................


Affidavit to be Attached to Statement of Claim


I, .................................... , swear [
or
affirm] that I have read [
or
have heard read] this statement, and that the facts set out in it are,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, and the amount claimed to
be due to me in respect of my lien is the just and true amount due and
owing to me in giving credit for all sums of money for goods or
merchandise to which the debtor
[naming the debtor]
is entitled to credit as against me.


Sworn before me at .................................... on


....................................
[month, day, year].


.................................................

A Commissioner, etc



Schedule B


Payroll




Name
Description

From January 5, 19..........,

to January 10, 19.......... (Inclusive)


Amount

Paid


Date of

Payment


Received

Payment

in Full




Number of

Days

Employed


Rate

per

Day


Total

Amount

Earned



R. Roe.
..........
6 days
$3.50
$21.00
$21.00
Jan. 12  19........
R. Roe




I certify that this statement is correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief, and is made by me in compliance and accordance with
section 32 of the
Woodworker Lien Act
on account of [my contract to, or employment by,
as the case may be]
,
[here insert brief description of the work]
for
[owner's name]
up to the ....................................
[month, day, year]
.


(Signed)
.............................................

Contractor


Dated .........................
[month, day, year]
.



