Accessible british columbia act [sbc 2021] chapter 19 Assented to june 17, 2021 Part 1 — interpretation Definitions
1 In this act:
"accessibility committee" Means a committee under section 9 [accessibility committee] ; "accessibility plan" Means a plan under section 11 [accessibility plan] ; "barrier" Has the meaning given to it in section 2 [barriers] ; "director" Means the director designated under section 21 [director] ; "disability" Means an inability to participate fully and equally in society as a Result of the interaction of an impairment and a barrier; "impairment" Includes a physical, sensory, mental, intellectual or cognitive Impairment, whether permanent, temporary or episodic; "indigenous peoples" Has the same meaning as in the Declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples act ; "provincial accessibility committee" Means the government's accessibility committee; "technical committee" Means a committee under section 15 [technical committees] .
Barriers
2 (1) For the purposes of this act, a barrier is anything that hinders the Full and equal participation in society of a person with an Impairment.
(2) For certainty and without limiting subsection (1), barriers can be (a) Caused by environments, attitudes, practices, policies, information, Communications or technologies, and (b) Affected by intersecting forms of discrimination.
Part 2 — recognition and accountability Division 1 — recognition Minister to promote accessibility 3 (1) The minister must promote accessibility in british columbia.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the minister may, subject to the Regulations, pay a grant to a person for the purpose of identifying, Removing or preventing barriers.
Recognition of accessability week 4 The prescribed week in each year is accessability week throughout British columbia.
Recognition of sign languages 5 Sign languages are recognized as the primary languages for Communication by deaf persons in british columbia, including, without Limitation,
(a) American sign language, and (b) Indigenous sign languages.
Division 2 — accountability Annual reports 6 (1) The minister must publish a report for each fiscal year of the Government that describes the actions taken in that year by the Minister and the provincial accessibility committee to implement this Act and the regulations.
(2) A report under subsection (1) for a fiscal year must be published by September 30 in the following fiscal year.
Independent reviews 7 (1) The minister must, by appointing a person in accordance with Subsection (2), initiate a review of the effectiveness of this act and The regulations (a) By march 31, 2026, (b) Within 5 years after the first appointment, and (c) At least every 10 years thereafter.
(2) An appointment under subsection (1) must require the person appointed To
(a) Carry out the review in accordance with terms of reference, if any, Specified in writing by the minister, (b) In carrying out the review, consult with representatives of at least The following groups:
(i) Persons with disabilities; (ii) Individuals and organizations that support persons with disabilities; (iii) Indigenous peoples; (iv) Individuals and organizations that are subject to or affected by part 3 [accessible organizations] ; (v) Individuals and organizations that are subject to or affected by the Regulations, and (c) Submit to the minister a report that sets out (i) The findings of the review, and (ii) The recommendations, if any, of the person appointed on how to improve The effectiveness of the act and the regulations.
(3) The minister must lay a report under subsection (2) (c) before the Legislative assembly as soon as practicable and, promptly after doing So, must publish the report.
Part 3 — accessible organizations Application
8 This part applies to the following organizations:
(a) The government; (b) A prescribed organization and an organization in a prescribed class of Organizations.
Accessibility committee 9 (1) An organization must establish a committee to (a) Assist the organization to identify barriers to individuals in or Interacting with the organization, and (b) Advise the organization on how to remove and prevent barriers to Individuals in or interacting with the organization.
(2) An accessibility committee must, to the extent possible, have members Who are selected in accordance with the following goals:
(a) At least half of the members are (i) Persons with disabilities, or (ii) Individuals who support, or are from organizations that support, Persons with disabilities; (b) The members described in paragraph (a) reflect the diversity of Persons with disabilities in british columbia; (c) At least one of the members is an indigenous person; (d) The committee reflects the diversity of persons in british columbia.
Provincial accessibility committee 10 (1) The provincial accessibility committee is to consist of up to 11 Members appointed by the minister in accordance with section 9 (2) [accessibility committee] And this section.
(2) An individual may be appointed under subsection (1) for a term of up To 4 years and may not be appointed for more than 2 consecutive terms.
(3) The provincial accessibility committee is subject to the direction of The minister.
Accessibility plan 11 (1) An organization must develop a plan to identify, remove and prevent Barriers to individuals in or interacting with the organization.
(2) An organization must review and update its accessibility plan at least Once every 3 years.
(3) In developing and updating its accessibility plan, an organization Must consider the following principles:
(a) Inclusion;
(b) Adaptability;
(c) Diversity;
(d) Collaboration;
(e) Self-determination; (f) Universal design.
(4) In developing its accessibility plan, an organization must consult With its accessibility committee.
(5) In updating its accessibility plan, an organization must (a) Consider any comments received under section 12 [public feedback] , and (b) Consult with its accessibility committee.
Public feedback 12 An organization must establish a process for receiving comments from The public on (a) The organization's accessibility plan, and (b) Barriers to individuals in or interacting with the organization.
Part 4 — accessibility standards Division 1 — accessibility standards Accessibility standards 13 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations respecting the Identification, removal or prevention of barriers.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the lieutenant governor in council May make regulations under that subsection in relation to any of the Following:
(a) Employment;
(b) Delivery of services; (c) The built environment; (d) Information and communications; (e) Transportation;
(f) Health;
(g) Education;
(h) Procurement.
(3) For certainty, the authority to make regulations under this section is Not limited by division 2 [standards development] .
Division 2 — standards development Standards development 14 If the minister directs the provincial accessibility committee to Develop a proposed accessibility standard, the committee must (a) Develop the proposed accessibility standard in accordance with (i) This division and the regulations, if any, and (ii) Any general or specific directions of the minister, and (b) Submit the proposed accessibility standard to the minister.
Technical committees 15 (1) The minister may establish a technical committee to assist the Provincial accessibility committee to develop a proposed accessibility Standard.
(2) The minister may appoint any of the following to a technical Committee:
(a) Members of the provincial accessibility committee; (b) Other individuals as the minister considers necessary or advisable.
(3) A technical committee is subject to the direction of the provincial Accessibility committee.
Consultations
16 In developing a proposed accessibility standard, the provincial Accessibility committee must consult with representatives of at least The following groups:
(a) Persons with disabilities; (b) Individuals and organizations that support persons with disabilities; (c) Indigenous peoples; (d) Organizations that might be affected by the standard; (e) Ministries of the government that might be affected by the standard.
Accessibility principles 17 In developing a proposed accessibility standard, the provincial Accessibility committee must consider the following principles:
(a) Inclusion;
(b) Adaptability;
(c) Diversity;
(d) Collaboration;
(e) Self-determination; (f) Universal design.
Relevant laws, standards and norms 18 In developing a proposed accessibility standard, the provincial Accessibility committee must consider (a) Relevant laws of british columbia, (b) Relevant standards enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, and (c) The united nations convention on the rights of persons with Disabilities.
Rights of indigenous peoples 19 In developing a proposed accessibility standard, the provincial Accessibility committee must consider (a) The rights recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 , and (b) The united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples.
Publication and recommendation of proposed standards 20 The minister must (a) Publish a proposed accessibility standard developed and submitted Under section 14 [standards development] , and (b) After making any changes to the proposed accessibility standard that The minister considers necessary or advisable, recommend to the Lieutenant governor in council that a regulation based on that Standard be enacted under section 13 [accessibility standards] .
Part 5 and 6 Not in force 21-27 [not in force.] Part 7 — general Accessible formats 28 A person who is required under this act to publish a record must, on Request, provide the record in a prescribed accessible format (a) At no charge, and (b) Within a reasonable period of time.
Remuneration of provincial committees 29 In accordance with the general directives of treasury board, the Minister may (a) Reimburse or pay an allowance to members of the provincial Accessibility committee or a technical committee for reasonable Travelling and out-of-pocket expenses necessarily incurred in carrying Out their duties, and (b) Pay remuneration to (i) Members of the provincial accessibility committee, or (ii) Members of a technical committee who are (a) Members of the provincial accessibility committee, or (b) Persons with disabilities.
Consultants and specialists 30 (1) The minister may, for the purposes of this act, engage or retain Consultants or specialists that the minister considers necessary and May determine their remuneration.
(2) The
Public service act Does not apply to a person engaged or retained under subsection (1).
Section 5 of Offence act Does not apply 31 Section 5 of the Offence act Does not apply to this act or the regulations.
Regulations
32 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations referred to in Section 41 of the Interpretation act .
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the lieutenant governor in council May make regulations as follows:
(a) Respecting any matter for which regulations are contemplated by this Act;
(b) Respecting grants under section 3 [minister to promote accessibility] , including, without limitation, (i) Restricting the purposes, amounts or recipients of those grants, and (ii) Respecting the terms and conditions on which the grants may or must be Given;
(c) Prescribing for the purposes of section 8 (b) [application of part 3] A person, agency or other body or a class of persons, agencies or Other bodies; (d) Respecting the establishment and functions of accessibility Committees, the development, contents and form of accessibility plans And the process for receiving comments under section 12 [public feedback] ; (e) Requiring persons to whom part 3 [accessible organizations] Does not apply to prepare plans described in section 11 (1) [accessibility plan] And respecting the development, contents and form of those plans; (f) Respecting the development of proposed accessibility standards under Sections 14 to 19 [standards development, etc.] ; (g) Without limiting paragraphs (d) and (f), respecting what is to be Considered in considering a principle referred to in sections 11 (3) [accessibility plan] Or 17
[accessibility principles] ; (h) Respecting monetary penalties under section 23 [monetary penalties] , including, without limitation, (i) Prescribing a limitation period for imposing a monetary penalty and Evidentiary matters in relation to that period, (ii) Subject to section 23 (3), prescribing the minimum or maximum amount Of a monetary penalty that may be imposed for specified Contraventions, or a manner of calculating those amounts, (iii) Authorizing administrative penalties to be imposed on a daily basis For continuing contraventions, (iv) Prescribing time limits for paying monetary penalties, and (v) Prescribing the consequences of failing to pay a monetary penalty, Which may include, but are not limited to, imposing additional Penalties;
(i) Respecting appeals under section 27 [appeals to tribunal] , including, without limitation, (i) Prescribing a tribunal established or continued under another act for The purposes of that section, and (ii) Applying provisions of the Administrative tribunals act To an appeal or the tribunal; (j) Respecting publication of anything that is required to be published Under this act and prescribing formats as accessible formats for the Purposes of section 28 [accessible formats] .
(3) A regulation under this act may do one or more of the following:
(a) Delegate a matter to a person; (b) Confer a discretion on a person; (c) Make different regulations in relation to different classes of Persons, things, circumstances or other matters; (d) Adopt by reference, in whole, in part or with any changes considered Appropriate, a regulation, code, standard or rule (i) Enacted as or under a law of another jurisdiction in or outside Canada, or (ii) Set by a provincial, national or international body or any other Code-, standard- or rule-making body As the regulation, code, standard or rule stands at a specific date, As it stands at the time of adoption or as amended from time to time.
(4) The authority to make regulations under this section does not limit And is not limited by the authority to make regulations under section 13 [accessibility standards] .
Commencement
33 The provisions of this act referred to in column 1 of the following Table come into force as set out in column 2 of the table:
Item
Column 1
Provisions of act Column 2
Commencement
1 Anything not elsewhere covered by this table The date of royal assent 2 Sections 11 and 12 By regulation of the lieutenant governor in council 3 Sections 21 to 27 By regulation of the lieutenant governor in council