Anatomy act [rsbc 1996] chapter 13 Definition
1 In this act, "body" Means the body of a deceased person (a) Found publicly exposed, (b) Who immediately before death was supported in and by a public Institution or an institution receiving financial aid from the Government, or (c) In respect of which disposition would have to be provided at public Expense.
Unclaimed bodies 2 A body must be placed immediately under the control of the minister if (a) Within 48 hours after death or after being found, the body is not Claimed by a relative, friend or person entitled to control the Disposition of the body under section 5 of the Cremation, interment and funeral services act , and (b) A coroner authorizes the release of the body under the Coroners act .
Notice to minister 3 The person in charge of an institution referred to in section 1 (b), The undertaker, or other person having charge of the body must Promptly give notice of the death and of the particulars required by Regulation, to the minister or the nominee of the minister for that Purpose.
Use of unclaimed body for anatomical research 4 (1) If the body is not claimed by a person referred to in section 2 (a) Within 3 months after death or after being found, the minister may, Solely for the advancement of anatomical science or instruction, issue An order permitting the use of the body by (a) The medical faculty of the university of british columbia, (b) The person in charge of another school of medicine approved by the Lieutenant governor in council, (c) A school of chiropractic, or (d) A medical practitioner who satisfies the minister of the medical Practitioner's need for the body.
(2) If the body is claimed by a person referred to in section 2 (a) within The 3 month period, the minister must release the body to that person On being satisfied that the body will be disposed of in accordance With the Cremation, interment and funeral services act .
(3) If the body is not required for anatomical science or instruction Purposes, the minister must require the person who has charge of the Body to dispose of it in accordance with the Cremation, interment and funeral services act .
Registration of death 5 Before delivery of a body to a person described in section 4, the Minister must register the death under the Vital statistics act .
Disposition after use 6 When a body is no longer required for the purposes set out in section 4 (1), the person who has charge of the body must (a) Arrange for the disposition of the body in accordance with the Cremation, interment and funeral services act , at the person's expense, and (b) Promptly notify the minister of the manner, time and place of the Disposition.
Direction in will 7 If a person by will records objection to the use of the person's body Under this act, this act may not be invoked to claim the body of that Deceased person.
Coroner
8 Nothing in this act abridges the power or duty of a coroner.
Offence and penalty 9 A person who contravenes a provision of this act commits an offence And is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $50 or more Than $100.
Power to make regulations 10 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations referred to in Section 41 of the Interpretation act .
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the lieutenant governor in council May prescribe fees for anything done or permitted to be done under This act.