Architects (landscape) act [rsbc 1996] chapter 18 Definitions
1 In this act:
"board" Means the board of directors of the society; "society" Means the british columbia society of landscape architects.
Society continued 2 (1) The british columbia society of landscape architects, incorporated Under the Society act , and its members, are continued as a corporation under that name.
(2) The society must have a common seal.
(3) The society (a) Has perpetual succession, (b) Has power to acquire property, (c) May sell, exchange, mortgage, lease, let, improve and develop Property, and (d) May erect and maintain buildings on its property.
(4) The
Societies act , other than the following provisions, applies to the society:
(a) Section 9 (5)
[registrar may order society to change its name] ; (b) Section 10
[constitution] ; (c) Section 11
[bylaws] ; (d) Division 4
[alterations to constitution and bylaws] Of part 2 [fundamental matters in relation to societies] ; (e) Division 1
[amalgamation] Of part 7 [corporate reorganizations] ; (f) Section 126
[dissolution by request of society without assets or liabilities] ; (g) Part 11
[extraprovincial non-share corporations] ; (h) Section 213
[investigation of society] ; (i) Section 214
[involuntary dissolution by registrar] ; (j) Section 215
[dissolution by lieutenant governor in council] .
(5) If there is a conflict or inconsistency between this act and the Societies act , This act prevails.
Suits and contracts 3 The society may sue and be sued, and may contract and be contracted With, in its corporate name.
Financial powers 4 The society may, subject to any conditions required by its bylaws, (a) Borrow, raise or secure the payment of money, and (b) Draw, make, accept, endorse, discount, execute and issue promissory Notes, bills of exchange, and other negotiable or transferable Instruments.
Head office 5 (1) The head office of the society must be in the city of vancouver.
(2) to (6) [repealed 2015-18-255.] Membership
6 (1) On payment of the specified fee, if any, and written application, the Board must register as a member of the society a person who satisfies The board that the person has passed the examinations set by the board Of examiners.
(2) On payment of the specified fee, if any, and written application, the Board may accept as a member of the society a person who satisfies the Board that the person (a) Has passed examinations outside british columbia equivalent to those Set by the board of examiners for candidates in british columbia, or (b) Is or has been practising landscape architecture outside british Columbia and is a member in good standing of a similar society or Other entity or group in the jurisdiction in which the person is or Has been practising, the membership qualifications for which are at Least equivalent to the qualifications required for candidates for Membership within british columbia.
(3) The board of directors may also register persons as junior members, Student members, honorary members and associate members, in accordance With and subject to the bylaws of the society.
Board of directors 7 (1) The affairs of the society must be managed by the board.
(2) The board must be elected and appointed and holds office in accordance With the bylaws of the society.
Board of examiners 8 (1) The board of examiners consists of the following:
(a) The president or a director of the society designated for the purpose By the president of the society; (b) The past president or a director of the society designated for the Purpose by the president of the society; (c) 4 or more persons appointed by the lieutenant governor in council Including
(i) A person nominated by the president of kwantlen polytechnic University,
(ii) A person nominated by the director of the school of architecture and Landscape architecture of the university of british columbia, (iii) The head of the landscape architecture program of the university of British columbia or a person nominated by the dean of the faculty of Applied science of the university of british columbia, and (iv) A person chosen to represent the public interest in the development And maintenance of proper standards of professional practice in Landscape architecture in british columbia.
(2) The board of examiners must set and hold regular examinations in British columbia at least once in each year at the place and the time Specified by the board of examiners.
(3) The board of examiners may set and hold special examinations on the Terms and conditions regarding the defraying of the expenses of the Examinations as the board of examiners may specify in each instance.
(4) The board of examiners must prescribe the rules of procedure to be Followed and enforced at all examinations.
(5) The board of examiners may appoint one or more of its members to Preside at any regular or special examination or part of an Examination.
(6) As soon as feasible after holding an examination, the board of Examiners must notify the board of the results.
Bylaws continue 9 (1) So far as not inconsistent with this act, the bylaws of the british Columbia society of landscape architects are the bylaws of the Society.
(2) The bylaws of the society must not be altered or added to except by an Extraordinary resolution of the society.
(3) An extraordinary resolution of the society altering or adding to the Bylaws must be filed in duplicate with the registrar of companies, who Must register one copy and return the other copy, certified as having Been registered by the registrar.
(4) Nothing that is in conflict with this act may be included in the Bylaws, and the bylaws must not contain anything contrary to law.
(5) The bylaws of the society and any amendments to them must be published In one issue of the gazette.
Bylaws
10 (1) Subject to section 9 (2), the board may make bylaws for all purposes Relating to the affairs, business, property and objects of the Society.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the power of the board to make bylaws Includes all of the following:
(a) Registration of members, issue of membership certificates, and Qualifications for registration of junior members, student members, Honorary members and associate members; (b) Holding, place and conduct of annual meetings and other meetings of The society, notices and consents prerequisite to the meetings, Quorums, voting rights at meetings, and all other matters connected With the meetings; (c) Qualifications of directors, their numbers, term of office, and all Matters relating to their election and appointment; (d) Filling of vacancies in the board; (e) Matters relating to meetings of the board; (f) Appointment, functions, duties and removal of officers and servants of The society and their remuneration, if any; (g) Establishment of executive, membership and other committees of the Society, membership in them, and their powers and duties; (h) Keeping of records and making of reports for and by the society; (i) Making of contracts for and by the society and the signing and Issuance of cheques, drafts or other orders for payment of money, Notes or other evidences of indebtedness by the society; (j) Custody and use of the society seal; (k) Establishing, levying, paying, remitting and collecting of membership And registration fees, their amounts, and requirements regarding Payment;
(l) Conduct generally of the affairs of the society.
Objects
11 The objects of the society are the following:
(a) To uphold public health, safety and welfare as it relates to the Professional practice of landscape architecture in british columbia; (b) To nurture and further the professional application of landscape Architectural knowledge and technique as it relates to the planning, Design, development, preservation, protection, restoration, Reclamation, rehabilitation, enhancement and management of the Environment;
(c) To advance landscape architectural knowledge and technique; (d) To further and maintain proper standards of professional landscape Architectural practice in british columbia.
Designation
12 (1) A person who is a member in good standing of the society is entitled To use the designation "landscape architect".
(2) A person who is not a member in good standing of the society must not Assume or use that designation in any manner or represent that the Person is entitled to do so.
Dissolution
13 (1) If it appears to the registrar of companies that the society has Failed for any period of 2 years to make or send or file any return, Notice or document required to be made or sent or filed to the Registrar of companies under the Societies act , or if the registrar of companies has reasonable cause to believe That the society is not in operation, the registrar may report that Belief to the attorney general.
(2) Despite anything in this act, on receipt of the report of the Registrar of companies, the lieutenant governor in council may revoke And cancel the incorporation of the society and declare the society to Be dissolved.