Arts council act [rsbc 1996] chapter 19 Definitions
1 In this act:
"council" Means the british columbia arts council continued by this act; "fiscal year" Means the fiscal year of the government; "member" Means a member of the council.
Purposes of council 2 The british columbia arts council is continued for the purposes of (a) Providing support for arts and culture in british columbia, (b) Providing persons and organizations with the opportunity to Participate in the arts and culture in british columbia, and (c) Providing an open, accountable and neutrally administered process for Managing funds for british columbia arts and culture.
Powers and duties 3 (1) The council must (a) Consult and collaborate with arts and cultural organizations, artists And artists' organizations, ministries of the government, local Governments and other communities of interest in carrying out its Purposes,
(b) Allocate the money appropriated annually for the council by the Legislature, and (c) Support arts and culture in british columbia through the following:
(i) Public education, research and advocacy; (ii) Awarding grants to any person or organization from the money Appropriated for the council; (iii) The production and distribution of information about the council and The arts and culture in british columbia.
(2) The minister may specify other powers and duties to be exercised and Performed by the council.
The council 4 (1) The council consists of not more than 15 members broadly Representative of the regions and the artistic communities of british Columbia appointed by the lieutenant governor in council.
(2) The lieutenant governor in council must designate a member to be the Chair and another member to be the vice-chair of the council.
Remuneration and expenses 5 A member of the council may be paid (a) An allowance for reasonable travelling and incidental expenses Necessarily incurred in carrying out the business of the council, and (b) If the member is not a member of the legislative assembly or a public Servant, remuneration at rates set by the lieutenant governor in Council.
Report and financial statement 6 (1) The council must, within 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, Submit to the minister (a) An annual report on the status of arts and culture in british columbia During the preceding fiscal year, and (b) A financial statement showing all money allocated by the council During the preceding fiscal year.
(2) The report and the financial statement referred to in subsection (1) Must be laid before the legislative assembly within 120 days after the End of the fiscal year for which the report and statement are made if The legislative assembly is then sitting, or within 15 days after The opening of the following session.
(3) The council, on request, must provide to the minister any information Or advice the minister may require.
Power to make regulations 7 The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations referred to in Section 41 of the Interpretation act .