Bc hydro public power legacy and heritage contract act [sbc 2003] chapter 86 Assented to november 20, 2003 Definitions
1 In this act:
"authority" Has the same meaning as in the Hydro and power authority act ; "commission" Has the same meaning as in the Utilities commission act ; "reference" Means the request for recommendations made under order in Council 253/2003;
"service" Has the same meaning as in the Utilities commission act .
Repealed
2 [repealed 2010-22-41.] Heritage contract 3 Without limiting any other obligation of the commission or the Authority,
(a) The commission must, when setting rates of the authority, comply with Any regulations, including, without limitation, any general or special Directions, made by the lieutenant governor in council under this act, And
(b) The authority must provide the service required by the regulations Made under this act, in accordance with (i) The terms and conditions specified in those regulations, and (ii) The rates set by the commission in accordance with the regulations.
Power to make regulations 4 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations referred to in Section 41 of the Interpretation act .
(2) Without limiting subsection (1) of this section, section 3 of the Utilities commission act Or section 35 of the Hydro and power authority act , the lieutenant governor in council may make any regulations the Lieutenant governor in council considers necessary or advisable to Respond to the recommendations made by the commission in response to The reference, including, without limitation, any of the following Regulations:
(a) To amend any regulation made under any of the Utilities commission act And the Hydro and power authority act ; (b) To issue directions to the commission specifying the factors, criteria And guidelines that the commission must or must not use in regulating And setting rates for the authority that are applicable to the service Referred to in section 3 (b) of this act.
Repeal
5 The
Hydro and power authority privatization act Is repealed.
Transitional
6 (1) Despite section 24 (3) of the Hydro and power authority privatization act , as it read before the coming into force of this act, any designation Under which terasen inc. or terasen gas inc. or any of their Respective predecessors is or became a special company under part 2 of The
Hydro and power authority privatization act Is revoked.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), none of the provisions of part 2 of The
Hydro and power authority privatization act As it read before the coming into force of this act apply to terasen Inc. or to terasen gas inc.
Schedule
[schedule repealed 2010-22-43.]