Continuing Care Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 70
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"continuing care"
means the provision of health care services prescribed under
section 3;
"facility"
means premises owned, leased or otherwise occupied by an operator and
used to provide continuing care;
"minister"
includes a person to whom the minister has delegated some or all of
the minister's powers under this Act;
"operator"
means a person who enters into an agreement under section 4 with the
minister for the provision of continuing care.
Application
2
This Act does not apply to health care services unless they are
prescribed under section 3.
Continuing care
3
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe to be continuing care
one or more health care services to persons with a frailty or with an
acute or chronic illness or disability that do not require admission
to a hospital as defined in section 1 of the
Hospital Act
.
Agreements
4
(1)
The minister may enter into a written agreement under this Act with an
operator under which the government will make payments on behalf of
clients, determined by the minister, who receive continuing care from
the operator.
(2)
On an agreement being entered into under subsection (1), the operator
must comply with this Act and any applicable standards, guidelines or
directives issued by the minister.
(3)
An agreement under subsection (1) may specify terms and conditions
that the operator must comply with in addition to standards,
guidelines or directives issued under subsection (4).
(4)
The minister may issue standards, guidelines or directives and may
issue different ones for different classes of operators or for
different classes of health care services, and the minister may exempt
an operator from complying with a provision of any of them.
(5)
If, in the opinion of the minister, an operator fails or refuses to
comply with a provision of an applicable standard, guideline or
directive, a term or condition of the agreement entered into under
subsection (1) or a provision of this Act, the minister may, in
writing, notify the operator that the agreement is terminated
(a)
in accordance with the provisions in the agreement for notification of
termination by the minister, or
(b)
on a date established by the minister, if
(i)
the agreement does not provide for notification of termination by the
minister in the circumstances, or
(ii)
the minister determines that termination earlier than permitted by the
agreement is necessary to protect the health or safety of a client.
Clients
5
(1)
The minister may determine the persons who will receive continuing
care for which a payment will be made under this Act.
(2)
The minister may issue guidelines respecting eligibility for payment
under subsection (1), but the minister's determination is final
and binding.
(3)
The minister, an officer of the minister's ministry or an employee of
a health authority may require a person to
(a)
provide, by means of a signed statement or otherwise, information
respecting the person or the members of the person's family thought
necessary by the minister, officer or employee for the proper
administration of this Act, and
(b)
consent to the release to the minister, officer or employee of
personal information respecting the person for the purposes of
verifying the information provided under paragraph (a).
(4)
The minister may establish forms for the purposes of subsection (3).
Fees and charges to clients
6
(1)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe the rate that an
operator may charge a client receiving continuing care for which the
government is making a payment.
(2)
An operator must not charge a client an amount exceeding the rate
prescribed under subsection (1) except in accordance with directives
issued by the minister or as permitted in an agreement entered into
under section 4 (1).
(3)
For the purposes of subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:
(a)
respecting the manner in which rates are to be calculated and payments
by clients are to be made;
(b)
prescribing different rates for different classes of clients,
including classes based on the date on which clients were approved to
receive, or did receive, continuing care;
(c)
in respect of that portion of the cost of receiving continuing care
that a client must pay,
(i)
exempting clients or classes of clients from making payments, and
(ii)
authorizing the minister to waive all or part of a payment that a
client or class of client would otherwise have to pay.
Inspectors
7
(1)
The minister may appoint inspectors for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In respect of an agreement entered into under section 4 (1) and on the
request of an inspector, an operator must permit the inspector
(a)
to inspect all records related to the provision of continuing care of
current or former clients of the operator,
(b)
to inspect all financial records related to the provision of
continuing care, and
(c)
if applicable, to inspect a facility and have access to any client in
the facility.
(3)
A person must not obstruct an inspector in the performance of the
inspector's duties.
Administrator
8
(1)
By notice of appointment served on the operator, the minister may
appoint an administrator to deliver continuing care covered by an
agreement under section 4 in place of the operator if the
minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the health or safety
of persons receiving continuing care from the operator is at risk
because of
(a)
an act or omission of the operator or of an employee or agent of the
operator, or
(b)
the condition of one or more facilities owned, leased or otherwise
occupied by the operator.
(2)
An administrator appointed under subsection (1) may exercise for
the period specified in the notice all powers necessary to deliver the
continuing care described in the agreement with the operator under
section 4, including
(a)
operation of any facility or the provision of any service covered by
the agreement,
(b)
employment and remuneration of staff,
(c)
requiring clients to pay fees or charges directly to the
administrator, and
(d)
by notice to the Minister of Finance of the appointment, requiring the
government to make all payments directly to the administrator for
services rendered to the clients.
(3)
Promptly, at the end of the period of the administrator's appointment,
the administrator must render an accounting of the operation to the
minister, and any excess of revenue over expenditure must, after
deduction of the administrator's fees, be paid to the operator.
(4)
The minister must determine the fees to be paid to the administrator,
but, if there is insufficient money to pay those fees under subsection
(3), the minister must pay the difference.
(5)
This section does not apply to a private home occupied by an operator
as the operator's personal residence in which continuing care is
provided to not more than 2 clients.
Appeal of appointment of administrator
9
(1)
Not more than 7 days after receiving a notice of appointment of an
administrator, an operator may appeal the appointment by sending to
the minister a written notice that the operator appeals it.
(2)
The notice must be received by the minister before the expiry of the
7 day period.
(3)
Not more than 14 days after receiving notice of the appeal, the
minister must appoint an appeal board to hear the appeal.
(4)
The appeal board consists of not more than 3 persons one of whom must
be appointed chair by the minister.
(5)
In accordance with directives issued by Treasury Board, the minister
must set the remuneration to be received by the chair and the members
for each day they are engaged in an appeal.
(6)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may establish the procedure to be
followed on an appeal.
(7)
By application to the Supreme Court made within 21 days after a
decision of an appeal board is received by the appellant or the
minister, the appellant or the minister may appeal the decision of the
appeal board on a question of law or jurisdiction.
(8)
An appeal from a decision of the Supreme Court lies to the Court of
Appeal with leave of a justice of the Court of Appeal.
Officials not liable
10
The minister, an inspector and their agents, officers, employees,
representatives and persons acting on their behalf are not liable in
their personal or official capacities for loss or damage suffered by a
person because of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in
the exercise or purported exercise of powers given by this Act.
Confidential information
11
A person who, in the course of carrying out the person's duties under
this Act, obtains information, files or records that are submitted in
accordance with a request or obligation under this Act, must not
disclose the information, files or records to any person other than
for the purposes of carrying out the duties under this Act or if
required by law.
Offence
12
(1)
Section 5 of the
Offence Act
does not apply to this Act.
(2)
A person who contravenes section 6 (2), 7 (3) or 11 commits an
offence.
(3)
A person who knowingly provides information that is false or
misleading with respect to a material fact contained in a signed
statement under section 5 (3) commits an offence.
(4)
A person who produces or relies upon a signed statement given by
another person under section 5 (3) while knowing the signed statement
to be false or misleading with respect to a material fact contained in
that signed statement commits an offence.
