Farmers and Womens Institutes Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 133
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"bylaws"
means the bylaws of an institute;
"constitution"
means an institute's constitution;
"extraordinary resolution"
means a resolution passed by 2/3 of the members entitled to vote who
are present in person at a general meeting of which notice specifying
the intention to propose the resolution as an extraordinary resolution
has been given;
"institute"
means a farmers' or women's institute incorporated, or deemed to have
been incorporated, under this Act.
Application of Act
2
This Act applies to an existing institute incorporated under the
Society Act
, or incorporated under an Act repealed by the
Society Act
, as if the institute had been incorporated under this Act.
Incorporation and objects of an institute
3
An institute may be incorporated under this Act for one or more of the
following purposes:
(a)
to improve conditions of rural life so that settlement may be
permanent and prosperous;
(b)
to promote the theory and practice of agriculture;
(c)
to arrange on behalf of its members for the purchase, distribution or
sale of commodities, supplies or products;
(d)
to act generally on behalf of its members in all matters incidental to
agricultural pursuits and rural development;
(e)
to promote home economics, public health, child welfare, education and
better schools.
Procedure for incorporation
4
Five or more persons may incorporate an institute
(a)
by signing, in duplicate, on forms provided by the minister, the
constitution and bylaws of the institute, and
(b)
by returning the forms to the minister, together with a list of the
persons appointed by the subscribers to act as the first directors of
the institute, stating their full names, addresses and occupations.
Common seal
5
The common seal of an institute must have its name engraved in legible
characters on the seal.
Acquisition and disposal of property
6
An institute may acquire and dispose of property, develop property,
and erect and maintain necessary buildings.
Use of institute's funds
7
(1)
The funds and property of the institute may be used and dealt with for
its legitimate objects only and in accordance with its bylaws.
(2)
An institute may invest its funds only in property or securities in
which trustees are authorized by law to invest.
Borrowing powers
8
(1)
To carry out its objects, an institute may, subject to its bylaws,
borrow or secure the payment of money in the manner it thinks proper,
including the issue of debentures.
(2)
Debentures must not be issued without approval by an extraordinary
resolution.
Negotiable instruments
9
To carry out its objects, an institute may, subject to its bylaws,
draw, make, accept, endorse, discount, execute and issue promissory
notes, bills of exchange and other negotiable or transferable
instruments.
Membership in other societies
10
If authorized by an extraordinary resolution, an institute may
subscribe to, become a member of and cooperate with another society or
association, whether incorporated or not, if all or some of its
objects are similar to the objects of the institute.
Change of constitution
11
An institute, by extraordinary resolution, may change its name or its
objects to include an object that may conveniently or advantageously
be combined with its existing objects.
Effect of change of name
12
(1)
A change of name does not affect a right or obligation of an
institute, or make a legal proceeding by or against an institute
defective.
(2)
A proceeding that might have been continued or commenced against an
institute by its former name may be continued or commenced against it
by its new name.
Contracts
13
(1)
An institute may make, vary or discharge a contract.
(2)
A contract that, between private persons, would be required to be in
writing and under seal, may be in writing under an institute's common
seal.
(3)
A contract that, between private persons, would be required to be in
writing and signed by the persons to be liable, may be in writing,
signed by a person acting under an institute's express or implied
authority.
(4)
A contract that, between private persons, would be valid although not
in writing, may be similarly made, varied or discharged by a person
acting under an institute's express or implied authority.
(5)
A contract made, varied or discharged under this section is valid and
binding on the institute and other parties to it.
(6)
A bill of exchange or promissory note is deemed to have been made,
accepted or endorsed by an institute if made, accepted or endorsed in
the name of an institute, by or on behalf of or on account of an
institute, by a person acting under its express or implied authority.
Membership
14
(1)
The members of an institute are the subscribers of the constitution
and persons admitted to membership under the bylaws.
(2)
Subject to the bylaws, a person under 19 years of age may be admitted
as a member of an institute or appointed to an office and is liable to
pay a subscription as if the person were of full age.
(3)
Subject to the bylaws, a corporation admitted to membership in an
institute may be represented by a person authorized by the
corporation.
Voting
15
(1)
Subject to the bylaws, each member has one vote.
(2)
Only a member in good standing under the bylaws is entitled to vote on
an extraordinary resolution.
(3)
A proxy entitling a person or member to vote at other than one meeting
or any adjournment is invalid.
Liability of members
16
A member of an institute is not, in the member's individual capacity,
liable for a debt or liability of the institute.
Directors
17
(1)
Subject to the bylaws, the members of an institute may nominate, elect
or appoint members as directors to conduct the business, discipline
and management of the institute and its affairs.
(2)
Subject to this Act and bylaws, the directors may exercise the powers
of an institute.
Security from officers
18
An institute may require a director or officer to give security it
believes sufficient for the faithful discharge of the person's duties.
Cancellation of incorporation
19
The minister may cancel the incorporation of an institute and declare
the institute dissolved.
Surrender of certificate of incorporation
20
(1)
An institute may, by extraordinary resolution, surrender its
certificate of incorporation.
(2)
If satisfied that sufficient notice of the institute's intention has
been given and that no debts, liabilities or obligations of the
institute are outstanding, the minister may accept the surrender of
the certificate, cancel it and fix a date from which the institute is
dissolved.
Grants to institutes
21
(1)
Subject to this Act, the minister may grant each institute an
allowance.
(2)
The grant may be made to the institute or may be applied in the manner
the minister directs.
Grants for educational or similar work
22
(1)
The minister may devote part of the sum voted by the Legislature for
institutes to the promotion and extension of institutes and to
associated educational work.
(2)
If an association or society incorporated under an Act, although not
known as an institute, is carrying on work of substantially the same
character as that of an institute, the minister may grant an allowance
under this Act to that association or society as if it had been
incorporated as an institute.
Conditions of grant
23
Subject to section 22, a grant must not be made to an institute
unless the institute
(a)
is or is deemed to be incorporated under this Act,
(b)
has a name that includes the words "Farmers' Institute" or "Women's
Institute",
(c)
has objects relating to agriculture, horticulture or arboriculture and
have been strictly adhered to and its funds have been devoted solely
to those objects,
(d)
has members who pay an annual fee, and
(e)
has complied with all regulations applicable to it.
Superintendent of Farmers' Institutes
24
A Superintendent of Farmers' Institutes may be appointed under the
Public Service Act
to discharge the duties assigned by the minister or the regulations.
District institutes
25
(1)
The minister may designate a portion of British Columbia as a district
for a district farmers' or women's institute, and may reduce or
enlarge the district.
(2)
A district institute may be incorporated under this Act in the same
manner as an institute, except that the subscribers to the
constitution and bylaws must be delegates authorized by institutes
having members resident in the district.
(3)
Each institute may authorize one delegate to the district institute.
(4)
A district institute must coordinate the activities of the institutes
in the district that are members of the district institute.
(5)
Subject to this section, the other provisions of this Act apply to a
district institute.
Advisory board
26
(1)
An advisory board composed of one delegate from each district farmers'
institute may meet, at the times and places determined by the
minister, to advise the minister on matters of interest to farmers'
institutes.
(2)
The members of the advisory board are not entitled to receive
remuneration for their services, but actual travelling expenses of a
member necessarily incurred on any journey previously approved by the
minister and a daily allowance allowed by the minister may be paid out
of money voted by the Legislature for farmers' institutes.
British Columbia Provincial Women's Institute
27
(1)
The corporation known as the British Columbia Provincial Women's
Institute is continued.
(2)
Every member in good standing of a women's institute is a member of
the British Columbia Provincial Women's Institute.
(3)
A general meeting of each women's institute may elect a delegate to
represent it at a convention of the British Columbia Provincial
Women's Institute.
(4)
Only elected delegates may vote at a convention of the British
Columbia Provincial Women's Institute, but any member in good standing
of a women's institute may be present at a convention and be elected
or appointed to office in the British Columbia Provincial Women's
Institute.
(5)
The board of directors of the British Columbia Provincial Women's
Institute consists of at least 6 and not more than 10 members elected
at the Provincial convention to hold office for one term, as defined
in the bylaws of the British Columbia Provincial Women's Institute.
(6)
If there is a vacancy on the board between elections, the directors
may appoint a member of the British Columbia Provincial Women's
Institute as a member of the board to hold office until the election
of a new board of directors.
Objects, powers, grants
28
(1)
The objects of the British Columbia Provincial Women's Institute are
the following:
(a)
to coordinate the work of women's institutes in British Columbia;
(b)
to promote discussions with similar organizations in other provinces;
(c)
to cooperate with other provincial bodies and the Federation of
Women's Institutes of Canada and Associated Country Women of the
World;
(d)
through its board of directors to advise the minister on matters
within the scope of women's institutes under this Act.
(2)
The British Columbia Provincial Women's Institute has the powers given
to farmers' institutes and women's institutes in sections 5 to 13.
(3)
The minister may make a grant to the British Columbia Provincial
Women's Institute an amount determined after consultation with the
board of directors.
Conversion to association
29
(1)
An institute may convert to and become registered as an association
under the
Cooperative Association Act
(a)
by extraordinary resolution,
(b)
with the consent of the minister,
(c)
on complying with conditions imposed by regulation, and
(d)
with the approval of the registrar under the
Cooperative Association Act
.
(2)
For the purpose of a conversion, an institute may provide for the
issue of shares to its members.
(3)
On conversion and registration as an association under the
Cooperative Association Act
(a)
the institute must surrender to the minister its certificate of
incorporation granted under this Act,
(b)
this Act no longer applies to the institute, and
(c)
the institute is deemed to have been incorporated under the
Cooperative Association Act
and to have the rights, powers and benefits of an association under
that Act.
Power to make regulations
30
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
