Financial Information Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 140
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"corporation"
means
(a)
a corporation, association, board, commission or society to which a
grant or advance may be made, or the borrowings of which may be
guaranteed by the government, under the authority of the enactments in
Schedule 1, or
(b)
a public body, as defined in section 1 of the
Financial Administration Act
, that is listed in Schedule 2;
"minister"
means
(a)
in respect of the corporations referred to in paragraph (a) of the
definition of "corporation", the minister who administers the Acts in
Schedule 1, or
(b)
in respect of the corporations in Schedule 2, the minister designated
by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Statement of financial information
2
(1)
A corporation must prepare statements of financial information in
accordance with this section in a form and containing information
prescribed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
(2)
Within 3 months after the end of each fiscal year of a corporation, it
must prepare a statement of financial information for that fiscal year
that includes the following:
(a)
a statement of assets and liabilities;
(b)
an operational statement;
(c)
a schedule of debts;
(d)
a schedule of guarantee and indemnity agreements.
(3)
Within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year of a corporation, it
must prepare a statement of financial information for that fiscal year
that includes the following:
(a)
a schedule showing
(i)
in respect of each employee earning more than a prescribed amount, the
total remuneration paid to the employee and total amount paid for the
employee's expenses, and
(ii)
a consolidated total of all remuneration paid to all other employees;
(b)
a schedule showing
(i)
the total amount paid to each supplier of goods or services during the
fiscal year that is greater than a prescribed amount, and
(ii)
a consolidated total of all other payments made to suppliers of goods
or services during that fiscal year.
(4)
A corporation must
(a)
keep in its office copies of the financial information statements
prepared under this section, and
(b)
make a copy available at its head office during usual business hours
for inspection by any person.
(5)
On the request of the minister and without charge, a corporation must
supply the statements of financial information prepared under this
section to the minister or to any person whom the Minister of Finance
requests be supplied with that statement.
(6)
If requested by a member of the public, a corporation must provide a
copy of a statement of financial information prepared under this
section on payment of the prescribed fee.
Additional information that must be provided on request
3
On request of the minister, the Minister of Finance or a committee of
the Executive Council that is designated by the Executive Council, a
corporation must provide to the requesting minister or committee
(a)
its strategic plans, business plans, capital and operating budgets, as
requested by that minister or committee, and
(b)
any other requested information in respect of the corporation in
relation to matters covered by this Act or section 4.1 of the
Financial Administration Act
.
Minister may order audit if corporation does not comply
4
(1)
If a corporation neglects or refuses to comply with this Act, the
minister or the Minister of Finance may appoint a person to
(a)
audit and examine the records, bank accounts and financial information
of the corporation, and
(b)
prepare and make available to the public, as the applicable minister
directs, a statement of financial information required under section 2
for the fiscal year in respect of which the corporation has neglected
or refused to prepare it.
(2)
If an audit and examination is authorized under subsection (1), a
corporation and every officer and employee of it must take all
necessary steps to
(a)
make available the facilities and records of the corporation, and
(b)
assist in the conduct of the audit and examination.
(3)
A person who hinders or obstructs the person conducting the audit and
examination under subsection (1) during the course of its conduct
commits an offence.
(4)
All charges and fees of the person who conducts an audit and
examination under subsection (1) may be paid out of the consolidated
revenue fund.
(5)
On payment under subsection (4), the amount that was paid is a debt
due to the government from the corporation that was audited and
examined.
Power to make regulations
5
(1)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may make regulations referred to in
section 41 of the
Interpretation Act
.
(2)
Without limiting subsection (1), the Lieutenant Governor in Council
may make regulations as follows:
(a)
prescribing the financial information to be contained in statements
and schedules specified in section 2 that must be provided by any
corporation or class of corporation;
(b)
determining the minimum financial limits and classifications for the
reporting under section 2 (3) (a) and (b);
(c)
prescribing fees for the purposes of section 2 (6);
(d)
adding additional Acts to Schedule 1 and additional corporations, as
defined in paragraph (b) of the definition of "corporation", to
Schedule 2.
Directives
6
The Minister of Finance may issue directives
(a)
providing for the form and manner of providing public access to
financial information held by the government and any corporation, and
(b)
respecting compliance by corporations with this Act.
Transitional for new corporations
7
If the Lieutenant Governor in Council makes a regulation under section
5 (2) (d) adding an Act to Schedule 1 or a corporation to Schedule 2,
a corporation that is affected by the regulation is not required to
comply with this Act in respect of the fiscal year that it was in at
the time the regulation became effective.
Schedule 1
British Columbia Railway Finance Act
College and Institute Act
Community Services Interim Authorities Act
Hospital Insurance Act
Hydro and Power Authority Act
Innovate BC Act
Islands Trust Act
Library Act
Local Government Grants Act
Municipal Aid Act
School Act
Thompson Rivers University Act
Transmission Corporation Act
University Act
Schedule 2
552513 British Columbia Ltd.
BC Financial Services Authority
BC Immigrant Investment Fund Ltd.
BC Infrastructure Benefits Inc.
BC Transportation Financing Authority
B.C. Games Society
B.C. Pavilion Corporation
BCNET
British Columbia Assessment Authority
British Columbia Energy Regulator
British Columbia Enterprise Corporation
British Columbia Housing Management Commission
British Columbia Lottery Corporation
British Columbia Pension Corporation
British Columbia Securities Commission
British Columbia Transit
Columbia Basin Trust
Columbia Power Corporation
Community Living British Columbia
Creston Valley Wildlife Management Authority
Destination BC Corp.
First People's Heritage, Language and Culture Council
Forensic Psychiatric Services Commission
Forest Enhancement Society of BC
Forestry Innovation Investment Ltd.
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
Insurance Council of British Columbia
Justice Institute of British Columbia
Knowledge Network Corporation
Legal Services Society
Medical Services Commission
Pacific Carbon Trust Inc.
Partnerships British Columbia Inc.
Provincial Rental Housing Corporation
Royal British Columbia Museum
Royal Roads University
SkilledTradesBC
The British Columbia Council for International Education
Transportation Investment Corporation
Workers' Compensation Board
