Health professions and occupations act [sbc 2022] chapter 43 Assented to november 24, 2022 Part
1 — Interpretation and guiding principles Division
1 — Interpretation
General definitions 1 In this act:
" Anti-discrimination measures " Means measures taken, including implementing processes, for the Purposes of conducting regulatory processes or providing health Services in a manner that is consistent with one or more of the Objectives referred to in section 15 [anti-discrimination measures] ; " Board
" Means a board of a regulatory college; " Conflict of interest " Includes actual, potential and perceived conflicts of interest; " Director of discipline " Means the person appointed under section 444 [director of discipline] As the person responsible for the management of the discipline Tribunal;
" Discipline panel " Means a discipline panel appointed under section 169 [appointing discipline panels] To conduct a discipline hearing; " Discipline panel member " Means a person appointed under section 449 [appointment of discipline panel members] ; " Discipline tribunal " Means the discipline tribunal established under section 443 [establishment of discipline tribunal] ; " Discrimination
" Means discrimination as defined in section 9 [discrimination] ; " Governance activity " Means an activity of a regulator with respect to the following:
( A
) The exercise of powers and performance of duties under this act or Another enactment; ( B
) Without limiting paragraph (a), ( I
) The administration and operation of a regulatory college or Regulatory program, or ( Ii
) The governing of a designated profession or occupation; " Indigenous governing body " Has the same meaning as in the Declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples act ; " Indigenous peoples " Has the same meaning as in the Declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples act ; " Indigenous practices " Means the following:
( A
) Indigenous cultural practices, traditions, values and beliefs; ( B
) Contemporary indigenous practices that are based on, or originate In, traditional indigenous practices; ( C
) A combination of traditional and contemporary indigenous practices; " Performance standards " Means the performance standards referred to in section 456 [performance standards] ; " Regulator
" Means the following, as applicable in the context:
( A
) A regulatory college; ( B
) A health occupation director who is administering a regulatory Program;
" Regulatory college " Has the meaning given to it in section 342 [regulatory colleges] ; " Regulatory performance " Means the extent to which a regulator is conducting governance Activities in accordance with the performance standards and best Practices referred to in section 456; " Regulatory process " Means the following:
( A
) A process conducted for a regulator as part of governance Activities, including, without limitation, ( I
) A process used to make a decision with respect to an application Made under this act, and ( Ii
) An investigation or disciplinary proceeding; ( B
) A process conducted by the minister, superintendent, director of Discipline or a discipline panel in the performance of duties or the Exercise of powers under this act; " Superintendent
" Means the person appointed under section 436 (2) [members of superintendent's office] As the superintendent; " Superintendent's office " Means the office of the superintendent of health profession and Occupation oversight established under section 435 (1) [establishment of superintendent's office] .
If
Administrative tribunals act Applies
2 Part 1
[interpretation and application] Of the Administrative tribunals act Applies for the purposes of a provision of this act that Incorporates by reference a provision of that act.
Not in force 3-8 [not in force.] Discrimination
9 ( 1 ) In this act, " Discrimination
" Means, subject to subsection (2), conduct that is prohibited under The
Human rights code And that is undertaken in relation to one or more of the following:
( A
) The functions under this act of the superintendent's office or the Health professions review board.
( B) to (e ) [not in force.] ( 2 ) [not in force.] Not in force 10-13 [not in force.] Division
2 — Guiding principles Guiding principles for persons acting under this act 14 ( 1 ) [not in force.] ( 2 ) In exercising powers and performing duties under this act, a person Must act in accordance with the following principles:
( A
) To protect the public from harm and discrimination; ( B
) To support and promote awareness of all of the following, as they Relate to the oversight and review of regulators, the governance of Designated professions and occupations and the provision of health Services:
( I
) Reconciliation with indigenous peoples; ( Ii
) The united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples; ( Iii
) The need to address racism and anti-racism issues that are specific To indigenous peoples, including acknowledging the rights, Interests, priorities and concerns that are specific to first Nations peoples, métis peoples and inuit peoples, based on Distinctions among them; ( C
) Without limiting paragraphs (a) and (b), to take and promote Anti-discrimination measures; ( D
) To act in a fair manner, including by demonstrating respect for the Principles of procedural fairness; ( E
) To act in a manner that is respectful of the privacy of persons who Participate in regulatory processes.
( 3 ) Unless it would conflict with a principle under subsection (2), in Exercising powers and performing duties under this act, a person Must act in accordance with the following principles:
( A
) To promote a holistic health care system that encourages Collaboration between regulators and between persons who provide Different types of health services; ( B
) To identify and remove barriers to the practice of a designated Profession or occupation, in british columbia, by Extrajurisdictional practitioners; ( C
) To act in a manner that is transparent, including by providing Opportunities for meaningful public engagement.
( 4 ) [not in force.] Anti-discrimination measures 15 ( 1 ) The objectives of anti-discrimination measures in conducting Regulatory processes and providing health services include both of The following:
( A
) To foster physically, culturally, socially, emotionally and Spiritually safe practices; ( B
) To adopt anti-racism approaches and tools to support these Approaches.
( 2 ) Without limiting subsection (1), the objectives of Anti-discrimination measures in conducting regulatory processes Include all of the following:
( A
) To treat regulatory participants respectfully; ( B
) To foster meaningful communication between regulators and persons Who participate in those processes, including by promoting Respectful, open and effective dialogue that encourages Participation;
( C
) To engage regularly in processes to identify discriminatory Practices, policies, programs, structures, values and attitudes that Perpetuate discrimination or create conditions in which Discrimination may occur; ( D
) To meet prescribed objectives.
( 3 ) [not in force.] Part
2 to 8 — Not in force Not in force 16-434 [not in force.] Part
9 — Regulatory oversight Division
1 — Superintendent's office Establishment of superintendent's office 435 ( 1 ) The office of the superintendent of health profession and occupation Oversight is established as an office of the government.
( 2 ) The purposes of the superintendent's office are as follows:
( A
) To give advice and recommendations to the minister respecting ( I
) The administration of and amendments to this act and the Regulations,
( Ii
) The improvement of the regulatory performance of regulators, and ( Iii
) Any other matter the minister requests; ( B
) To promote awareness of and adherence to the guiding principles as Described in section 14 [guiding principles for persons acting under this act] ; ( C
) To develop and implement a merit-based selection process for the Appointment of members to boards of regulatory colleges; ( D
) To promote consistency among regulators with respect to the exercise Of powers and performance of duties under this act; ( E
) To superintend regulators in the exercise of powers and performance Of duties under this act, including reporting on regulatory Performance and recommending improvements; ( F
) To publish information and records that the superintendent Determines to be in the public interest; ( G
) To exercise additional powers and perform additional duties as Prescribed.
Members of superintendent's office 436 ( 1 ) The superintendent's office consists of the following:
( A
) The superintendent; ( B
) The discipline tribunal; ( C
) Employees required to carry out the functions of the office.
( 2 ) The lieutenant governor in council may appoint the superintendent in Accordance with the Public service act .
Employees
437 ( 1 ) The superintendent may appoint, in accordance with the Public service act , the employees the superintendent considers necessary to assist the Superintendent and the discipline tribunal to exercise powers and Perform duties under this act.
( 2 ) The superintendent is a deputy minister for the purposes of applying The
Public service act To subsection (1) of this section.
Deputy superintendent 438 ( 1 ) As soon as reasonably practicable after taking office, the Superintendent must appoint one deputy to act in the Superintendent's absence.
( 2 ) The deputy superintendent must be an employee of the Superintendent's office.
Retention of experts 439 ( 1 ) The superintendent may retain consultants, experts, specialists and Other persons who, in the opinion of the superintendent, are Necessary to assist the superintendent to exercise powers and Perform duties under this act.
( 2 ) The superintendent may establish the remuneration of persons Retained under this section and other terms and conditions of their Retainers.
( 3 ) The
Public service act Does not apply with respect to persons retained under this section.
Not in force 440 [not in force.] Minister's directions 441 The superintendent must comply with any general or special direction Made by order of the minister with respect to the superintendent's Exercise of powers and performance of duties under this act.
Administrative powers 442 ( 1 ) The superintendent may, by order, set requirements respecting the Form and manner of submitting oversight complaints under section 462 [making oversight complaints] , information, records, notices, fees and reports, other than annual Reports, to the superintendent by ( A
) Boards and health occupation directors, and ( B
) Persons making oversight complaints.
( 2 ) With respect to any matter over which the superintendent may, under This act, set requirements or impose limits or conditions, the Superintendent
( A
) May establish classes of persons, processes and other matters, ( B
) May set different requirements, limits or conditions for different Classes, and ( C
) Must publish the requirements, limits and conditions.
Division
2 — Discipline tribunal Establishment of discipline tribunal 443 ( 1 ) The discipline tribunal is established within the superintendent's Office.
( 2 ) The discipline tribunal consists of the following members:
( A
) The director of discipline; ( B
) Discipline panel members.
Director of discipline 444 ( 1 ) The director of discipline is responsible for the management of the Discipline tribunal.
( 2 ) The minister may appoint the director of discipline in accordance With the Public service act .
( 3 ) The person appointed as the director of discipline must be a member Or former member of the law society of british columbia or a law Society of another province of canada.
Deputy director of discipline 445 ( 1 ) As soon as reasonably practicable after taking office, the director Of discipline must appoint one deputy to act in the director's Absence or in circumstances in which the director has a conflict of Interest.
( 2 ) The deputy director of discipline must be ( A
) A discipline panel member, and ( B
) A member or former member of the law society of british columbia or A law society of another province of canada.
Retention of experts 446 ( 1 ) The director of discipline may retain consultants, experts, Specialists and other persons who, in the opinion of the director, Are necessary to assist the director or discipline panel members to Exercise powers and perform duties under this act.
( 2 ) The director of discipline may establish the remuneration of persons Retained under this section and other terms and conditions of their Retainers.
( 3 ) The
Public service act Does not apply with respect to persons retained under this section.
Practice and procedure 447 ( 1 ) Subject to the regulations, the director of discipline may issue Practice directives respecting practices and procedures to Facilitate the just and timely conduct of discipline hearings.
( 2 ) Without limiting subsection (1), the director of discipline ( A
) May issue practice directives for any matter described in section 11 (2) of the Administrative tribunals act , and ( B
) Must issue practice directives as referred to in section 12 (1) Of that act.
( 3 ) Sections 11, 12 (3) and (4) and 13 (1.1) and (3) of the Administrative tribunals act Apply to practice directives issued under subsection (2) of this Section.
Process for appointing discipline panel members 448 ( 1 ) The director of discipline must establish or adopt, and publish, Policies and guidance respecting ( A
) The education, training, experience and other qualifications that Are necessary or desirable for discipline panel members to have, and ( B
) The processes and best practices for selecting persons to be Appointed as discipline panel members, including, subject to the Regulations,
( I
) Factors that must or must not be considered, ( Ii
) Requirements for consultation, and ( Iii
) Objectives to be achieved, including with respect to ensuring that Discipline panels will benefit from a diversity of perspectives.
( 2 ) The director of discipline must ensure that appointment processes And best practices reflect the principle of merit and conform to any Prescribed requirements, limits and conditions.
( 3 ) For the purposes of establishing or adopting appointment processes And best practices, the director of discipline may establish or Adopt requirements, limits and conditions that apply with respect to Appointees individually or collectively, or both.
Appointment of discipline panel members 449 ( 1 ) The director of discipline must appoint persons as discipline panel Members.
( 2 ) The director of discipline must ensure that the discipline tribunal ( A
) Has, for each designated health profession, one or more discipline Panel members who hold a licence to practise the designated health Profession, and ( B
) Is composed of discipline panel members who, collectively, ( I
) Represent diverse groups of people, ( Ii
) Have expertise in assisting persons who have experienced conduct That is in the nature of sexual misconduct, sexual abuse or Discrimination,
( Iii
) Have expertise in mitigating any potential trauma that may arise From an adversarial process, and ( Iv
) Have other relevant experience or qualifications.
( 3 ) The director of discipline may terminate the appointment of a Discipline panel member for cause.
Application of Administrative tribunals act 450 ( 1 ) Section 10 of the Administrative tribunals act Applies to discipline panel members.
( 2 ) [not in force.] Information and records 451 The superintendent may access, at any time, information or records Of the discipline tribunal, including information or records that Contain personal information.
Division
3 — Appointment of board members Appointment processes 452 ( 1 ) The superintendent must establish or adopt, and publish, policies And guidance respecting ( A
) The education, training, experience and other qualifications that Are necessary or desirable for board members to have, and ( B
) Processes and best practices for selecting persons to be appointed As board members, including, subject to the regulations, ( I
) Factors that must or must not be considered, ( Ii
) Requirements for consultation, and ( Iii
) Objectives to be achieved, including with respect to ensuring that Boards will benefit from a diversity of perspectives.
( 2 ) The superintendent must ensure that appointment processes and best Practices reflect the principle of merit and conform to any Prescribed requirements, conditions and limits.
( 3 ) For the purposes of establishing or adopting appointment processes And best practices, the superintendent may establish or adopt Requirements, limits and conditions that apply with respect to Appointees individually or collectively, or both.
Consultations and assistance 453 In establishing, adopting or reviewing processes and best practices For appointing board members, the superintendent ( A
) Must consult with regulatory colleges and prescribed persons, ( B
) May consult with the public and any other person, and ( C
) May, by order, require a regulatory college to provide information And conduct surveys and assessments with respect to one or more of The following:
( I
) Necessary or desirable education, training, experience and other Qualifications;
( Ii
) The demographic composition of the board; ( Iii
) The recruitment or retention of board members; ( Iv
) Matters that are relevant to whether the objectives of the Appointment processes and best practices are being met; ( V
) A matter identified by the minister or superintendent.
Recommendations for appointments and rescindments 454 The superintendent must manage the implementation of processes and Best practices for appointing board members, including by making Recommendations to the minister respecting the following:
( A
) The persons to be appointed as board members; ( B
) The rescindment of a person's appointment if the superintendent has Reasonable grounds to believe that the person has ( I
) Contravened a provision of this act, the regulations or the bylaws, Or
( Ii
) Failed to meet performance standards.
Division
4 — Not in force Not in force 455-461 [not in force.] Division
5 — Conduct of oversight processes Not in force 462-466 [not in force.] If indigenous matters 467 ( 1 ) [not in force.] ( 2 ) The superintendent must, in collaboration with indigenous governing Bodies and other entities representing indigenous peoples, establish Policies and procedures for the nomination of persons by those Indigenous governing bodies and other entities for the purposes of This section.
Not in force 468-479 [not in force.] Division
6 — Not in force Not in force 480-484 [not in force.] Division
7 — Reports
Director of discipline's annual report 485 The director of discipline must make an annual report to the Superintendent respecting all of the following:
( A
) The exercise of powers and performance of duties under this act by The director and by discipline panel members; ( B
) Any matter that, in the opinion of the director, should be included In the report; ( C
) Other matters as prescribed and as directed by the minister.
Superintendent's annual report 486 ( 1 ) The superintendent must make an annual report to the minister Respecting all of the following:
( A
) The exercise of powers and performance of duties under this act by The superintendent and the discipline tribunal; ( B
) [not in force.] ( C
) Any matter that, in the opinion of the superintendent, should be Included in the report; ( D
) Other matters as prescribed and as directed by the minister.
( 2 ) The superintendent's annual report must include the director of Discipline's annual report.
Making reports 487 ( 1 ) The annual report of the superintendent and discipline tribunal must Be made in the form and manner required by the minister.
( 2 ) After giving an annual report to the minister, the superintendent Must do both of the following:
( A
) Give a copy of the report to each board and health occupation Director;
( B
) Publish the annual report.
Not in force 488 [not in force.] Receipt of annual report 489 After receiving the superintendent's annual report, the minister May, by order, require the director of discipline to provide to the Superintendent supplemental information.
Part
10 and 11 — Not in force Not in force 490-533 [not in force.] Part
12 — Transitional provisions, repeal, consequential amendments and Amendment to this act Transitional provisions Not in force 534-544 [not in force.] Transitional regulations 545 ( 1 ) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations the Lieutenant governor in council considers necessary or advisable to More effectively bring this act into operation, including Regulations
( A
) To prevent, minimize or otherwise remedy any transitional Difficulties encountered in bringing this act into operation, and ( B
) To facilitate the transition from the operation of the former act to The operation of this act.
( 2 ) The authority to make or amend a regulation made under subsection (1), but not the authority to repeal a regulation made under that Subsection, ends 3 years after the date that this section comes into Force.
Repeal
[note: see table of legislative changes for the status of Sections 546 to 644.] Section(s) Affected act 546 Health professions act Consequential amendments Section(s) Affected act 547-548 Access to abortion services act 549 Attorney general statutes amendment act, 2018 550 Business practices and consumer protection act 551 Community care and assisted living act 552-561 Criminal records review act 562-564 E-health (personal health information access and protection Of privacy) act 565 Emergency health services act 566 Evidence act 567 Firearm violence prevention act 568 Freedom of information and protection of privacy act 569 Health authorities act 570 Health planning statutes amendment act, 2002 571 Health professions amendment act, 2003 572 Health professions (regulatory reform) amendment act, 2008 573 Health statutes amendment act, 2007 574-575 Hospital act 576 Insurance corporation act 577-579 Insurance (vehicle) act 580 Interpretation act 581-585 Laboratory services act 586-588 Labour mobility act 589 Labour relations code 590 Liquor control and licensing act 591-596 Medicare protection act 597 Miscellaneous statutes amendment act (no. 2), 2012 598 Opioid damages and health care costs recovery act 599-604 Pharmaceutical services act 605-629 Pharmacy operations and drug scheduling act 630-635 Pill press and related equipment control act 636 Public health act 637 Veterinary drugs act 638-639 Vital statistics act 640 Wills, estates and succession act 641-643 Workers compensation act Amendment to this act Section(s) Affected act 644 Health professions and occupations act Commencement
645 This act comes into force by regulation of the lieutenant governor In council.