Land (Spouse Protection) Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 246
Definitions
1
In this Act:
"disposition"
means any disposition by an act between living persons that is
required to be executed by the owner of the land disposed of, and
includes
(a)
a transfer, agreement of sale, assignment of an agreement for sale,
lease or other instrument intended to convey or transfer any interest
in land,
(b)
a mortgage or encumbrance intended to charge land with the payment of
money, and required to be so executed,
(c)
a devise or other disposition made by will, and
(d)
a mortgage by deposit of duplicate indefeasible title or indefeasible
title, or other mortgage not requiring the execution of any document;
"entry"
means an entry made in the register of land titles under
section 2;
"homestead"
means land or any interest in it entitling the owner to possession of
it that is registered in the records of the land title office in the
name of the spouse and on which there is a dwelling occupied by the
spouses as their residence, or that has been so occupied within the
period of one year immediately preceding the date of the making of the
application under section 2;
"spouse"
means a person who
(a)
is married to another person, or
(b)
has lived with another person in a marriage-like relationship for a
continuous period of at least 2 years.
Application for charge under this Act
2
(1)
If a spouse or a person's spouse on the person's behalf applies to the
registrar for an entry on the register that a homestead is subject to
this Act the registrar must make the entry
(a)
if the application is in the prescribed form,
(b)
the application is accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant spouse
in the prescribed form, and
(c)
the registrar is satisfied that there has been compliance with this
Act.
(2)
The application for an entry may be made by a spouse in person or on a
person's behalf by that person's spouse, solicitor or authorized
agent.
(3)
The person making the application must reside in British Columbia and
must be 19 years or older.
When disposition without consent of spouse is void
3
(1)
If an entry has been made on the register under section 2, a
disposition of the homestead by a spouse during the life of that
spouse if the interest of that spouse must or may vest in any other
person at any time during the life of that spouse, or during the life
of the spouse of that spouse living at the date of the disposition, is
void for all purposes unless made with the written consent of the
spouse on whose behalf the entry is made.
(2)
A conveyance designed to avoid the right given by this Act has no
effect.
Application of
Wills, Estates and Succession Act
4
(1)
If an entry has been made on the title under section 2, section 162
(1) of the
Wills, Estates and Succession Act
applies to the devolution of the homestead.
(2)
Despite any testamentary disposition or rule of law and subject to the
liability of the land comprising the homestead for foreclosure or the
payment of debts, a personal representative holds the homestead in
trust for an estate for the life of the surviving spouse.
Spouses living apart
5
If at the time of death of a spouse, the surviving spouse is living
apart from the deceased spouse under circumstances disentitling the
surviving spouse to support, alimony or maintenance, no life estate
vests in the surviving spouse and the surviving spouse does not take
any benefit under this Act.
When Act ceases to apply
6
This Act ceases to apply when the spouses have
(a)
separated, and
(b)
resolved the ownership or division of the homestead by an agreement or
order made under the
Family Law Act
.
Filing of consent on disposition
7
(1)
Any consent required for a disposition during the lifetime of a spouse
that takes effect during the lifetime of that spouse, of a homestead
under this Act must be produced and filed in the land title office
with the instrument by which the disposition is effected.
(2)
The consent may be embodied in or endorsed on the instrument effecting
the disposition.
(3)
The execution of a disposition referred to in subsection (1) by the
spouse on whose behalf the entry is made constitutes a consent under
this Act.
Dispensing with consent and notice
8
(1)
On application by petition and on being satisfied that it is fair and
reasonable under the circumstances to do so, the Supreme Court may
dispense with the consent of a spouse, on whose behalf an entry is
made, to a proposed disposition if
(a)
the spouses are living apart,
(b)
the spouse on whose behalf the entry is made
(i)
has not since the marriage lived in British Columbia, or
(ii)
unreasonably withholds consent, or
(c)
the whereabouts of the spouse referred to in paragraph (b) is unknown.
(2)
An order under subsection (1) may be made on terms and conditions as
to payment into court or otherwise that the court in the circumstances
thinks proper.
(3)
If the court is satisfied that the spouse on whose behalf the entry is
made has not, since the marriage, lived in British Columbia or the
whereabouts of that spouse is unknown, it may dispense with the giving
of notice of the application for the order or give other directions as
to service of the notice.
(4)
If the spouse on whose behalf entry is made is a mentally disordered
person or person of unsound mind, notice of an application to dispense
with the consent of that spouse must be served in the manner provided
by the rules of the Supreme Court for the service of writs on those
persons.
(5)
On the order being filed with the registrar at the proper land title
office, and on compliance with the
Land Title Act
, the registrar must register the transfer.
Presumption of consent from participation in sale
9
(1)
If the spouse on whose behalf an entry is made has executed a contract
for sale of the homestead, joined in the execution of it with the
other spouse or given written consent to the execution of it, and the
consideration under the contract has been totally or partly performed
by the purchaser, the spouse on whose behalf the entry was made is, in
the absence of fraud on the part of the purchaser, deemed to have
consented to the sale in accordance with this Act.
(2)
If a subsequent disposition by way of transfer of the homestead is
presented for registration under the
Land Title Act
, the consent previously given or the agreement executed, if produced
and filed with the registrar, is sufficient for the purposes of this
Act.
Abandonment by spouse of benefits and privileges
10
(1)
A homestead or part of a homestead and the benefits and privileges
conferred on the spouse on whose behalf an entry is made under this
Act in respect of the homestead or any part of it may be abandoned by
that spouse by a document, in the prescribed form, abandoning the
homestead rights.
(2)
The registrar must cancel the entry on receiving an application in the
form prescribed for applying for the cancellation of an entry,
accompanied by the document referred to in subsection (1).
Cancellation on protected spouse predeceasing other spouse
11
On application in the form prescribed for applying for the
cancellation of an entry, accompanied by evidence satisfactory to the
registrar that the spouse on whose behalf the entry was made has died,
or that a decree has been pronounced dissolving or annulling the
marriage of the spouse on whose behalf an entry was made to the spouse
in whose name the homestead is registered, the registrar must cancel
the entry.
Spouse may be required to show why entry should not be discharged
12
(1)
A spouse or the personal representative of the spouse may by summons
call on the other spouse to attend before a court of competent
jurisdiction to show cause why an entry should not be discharged if
(a)
an entry under section 2 has been made on the register, and
(b)
the spouse in whose name the homestead is registered, or that spouse's
personal representative, claims
(i)
that the land affected or a part of it is not a homestead, or
(ii)
that the entry for any other reason should not have been made.
(2)
On proof that the spouse has been summoned as required by subsection
(1), and on evidence that the court may require, the court may make an
order that it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
Appeal from registrar's decision
13
If a person is dissatisfied with a decision of the registrar under
this Act, that person may, within 21 days of the receipt of
notice of the decision, appeal to the Supreme Court in a summary way
by petition, and section 309 of the
Land Title Act
applies to the appeal.
Repealed
14
[Repealed 2004-66-65.]
Power to prescribe forms
15
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may prescribe forms for the
purposes of this Act.
