Legislative Library Act
[RSBC 1996] CHAPTER 260
Library for Legislative Assembly
1
The books, papers, furniture, stationery and other articles in the
possession of the Legislative Assembly on April 11, 1894,
and all additions to that collection, belong to Her Majesty for the
use of the Legislative Assembly, and are known as the Legislative
Library of British Columbia.
Location and management of library
2
(1)
The library must be kept conveniently near the Legislative Chamber.
(2)
The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly has management and control of
the library and of its officers and employees.
Books for use of public
3
(1)
Subject to this section, the Speaker may arrange for the temporary
removal from the library of books the Speaker designates for the use
of the public throughout British Columbia.
(2)
Books must not be removed from the library under this section except
those, in the opinion of the Speaker, not required for the use of the
Legislative Assembly.
(3)
The Speaker must manage all books removed from the library under this
section, and may lend them to libraries, associations, communities and
organizations, on the conditions and subject to the rules the Speaker
establishes.
Power of Speaker to make regulations
4
(1)
The Speaker may make regulations considered expedient and necessary
for the efficient management of the library and the proper application
of money appropriated by the Legislature for the purchase of books,
papers, furniture, stationery and other articles for the library.
(2)
The Speaker may make regulations to provide for the loan to persons
resident in British Columbia of books from the library during the
recess of the Legislative Assembly, and for the management and loan of
books removed from the library under section 3.
Library staff
5
The library staff consists of a librarian and other officers appointed
under the
Public Service Act
.
Salaries and expenses
6
The library staff holds office during pleasure, and their salaries and
the other expenses of and incidental to the management and maintenance
of the library are to be provided out of funds to be appropriated for
that purpose by the Legislature.
Appointment of clerks during session
7
The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly may appoint during the session
clerks and messengers necessary for the proper service of the library.
Librarian
8
The librarian must maintain a catalogue of the library, and must file
a yearly report to the Legislative Assembly through the Speaker as
soon as practicable in each year.
Additional duties of librarian
9
In addition to performing the duties assigned under the regulations,
the librarian must obtain, furnish or compile historical or other
information if requested to do so by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council or by a minister of the government.
