Local government grants act [rsbc 1996] chapter 275 Grants to local governments and related organizations 1 In each fiscal year of the government, the minister may, in accordance With this act and the regulations, make (a) Unconditional grants to municipalities and regional districts, and (b) Conditional grants to municipalities, regional districts and Prescribed related organizations.
Repealed
2 [repealed 1997-4-12.] Unconditional grants 3 Without limiting section 1, the amount of a class of unconditional Grants may be determined on the basis of one or more of the following, As prescribed by regulation, but subject to any minimum or maximum Prescribed by regulation:
(a) A fixed amount for each municipality or regional district; (b) The population of a municipality or regional district; (c) The total annual expenditures or revenues of a municipality or Regional district; (d) The converted value of land and improvements within a municipality or Regional district; (e) Any other prescribed basis.
Conditional grants 4 (1) Without limiting section 1, conditional grants may be made to Municipalities, regional districts and prescribed related Organizations for the following purposes:
(a) Reviewing, studying, planning or implementing matters relating to Local government planning or growth management; (b) Reviewing, studying, planning, organizing or implementing the Establishment or other reorganization of local government, including Any change in the functions, structures, boundaries or classifications Of one or more municipalities and regional districts; (c) Reviewing, studying, planning, or constructing water supply and Distribution facilities, sewage collection and disposal facilities, Major municipal highways or other infrastructure; (d) To share the cost of any underground installation of power, telephone Or other overhead transmission lines in municipal areas, agreed to Among a municipality, a public utility, including the british columbia Hydro and power authority, and the government.
(2) Subject to approval by treasury board, money may be paid out of the Consolidated revenue fund to satisfy conditional grant liabilities Incurred under this act.
Grants to other bodies 5 (1) The minister may make conditional grants referred to in Section (4) (1) (a) for (a) The purposes of section 15 of the Islands trust act , and (b) Planning purposes under section 29 of the Islands trust act , as if the local trust committees and the executive committee acting As a local trust committee were regional districts, with the grants Payable to the trust council under that act for these purposes.
(2) The minister may make conditional grants referred to in section 4 (1) (c) to a greater board.
Consultation with local governments 6 At least annually, the minister must consult with representatives of The union of british columbia municipalities regarding the amount and The administration of grants under this act.
Power to make regulations 7 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may make regulations referred to in Section 41 of the Interpretation act .
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the lieutenant governor in council May make regulations as follows:
(a) Establishing classes of grants; (b) Establishing the amount or a maximum amount that may be paid for a Class of grants; (c) Establishing qualifications for a class of grants; (d) Specifying conditions on which a grant may be paid and making a grant Subject to further conditions specified by the minister; (e) Establishing the amount, or a minimum or maximum amount, of a grant; (f) Prescribing the basis on which the amount of a grant is to be Determined;
(g) Prescribing an organization as a related organization, or a class of Organizations as related organizations, for grants of a specified Class or grants in relation to a specified purpose.
(h) [repealed 1997-4-15.] Transitional — authority to continue payments under former acts 8 Subject to approval by treasury board, money may be paid out of the Consolidated revenue fund to satisfy liabilities incurred under one of The following acts on the basis of an appropriation under the act Before it was repealed:
(a) The
Revenue sharing act , r.s.b.c. 1979, c. 368; (b) The
Natural gas revenue sharing act , s.b.c. 1975, c. 51; (c) The
Sewerage facilities assistance act , s.b.c. 1974, c. 83; (d) The
Municipal treatment plant assistance act , s.b.c. 1969, c. 25.