Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
[RSBC 1960] CHAPTER 261
Title
1
This Act may be cited as the
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
.
1958-35-1.
Interpretation
2
This Act and any regulation passed under this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires, shall be read in conjunction with and be
considered an extension of the
Municipal Act
.
1958-35-2.
Prior enactments not affected
3
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the enactment of
any public or private Act enacted prior to the first day of January,
1958.
1958-35-3.
Power to make regulations
4
For the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act
according to their true intent, and of supplying any deficiency
therein, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may make such regulations
as are considered necessary or advisable, and such regulations shall
have the same force and effect as if enacted by this Act, and shall be
published in the Gazette.
1958-35-4.
General retroactive provision
5
Each section of this Act is retroactive to the extent necessary to
give force and effect to its provisions.
1959-57-2.
Former by-laws, etc., can be amended
6
Notwithstanding section 16 of the
Interpretation Act
, any by-law, order, or regulation which was passed or adopted under
any of the Acts mentioned in sections 889 to 896, inclusive, of the
Municipal Act
, being chapter 42 of the Statutes of 1957, may be amended pursuant to
and consistent with the
Municipal Act
, and shall not be deemed annulled by such amendment.
1958-35-5.
Validation of 1958 taxation procedures
7
With respect to the year 1958, no assessment roll, rates by-law,
taxation roll, or by-law by which the annual budget was adopted, of
any municipality, or any procedures involving them shall be deemed to
be invalid or without lawful authority only because of non-compliance
with required statutory dates.
1959-57-2.
Validation of 1960 elections
7A
Where through inadvertence the nomination-day in any municipality for
the election of members of the Council in the year 1960 was held on
the fifth day of December and the polling-day (if any) was held on the
fifteenth day of December, the election so held is as valid as if the
statutory dates had been complied with.
1961-45-2.
Business tax for 1965
7B
The statutory date of the thirtieth day of November, 1964, does not
apply to by-laws adopted under section 427 of the
Municipal Act
for the purpose of imposing a business tax in and for the year 1965,
if the by-law is adopted prior to the fifteenth day of May, 1965.
1965-30-2.
Levy by certain municipalities for 1964 debentures
7C
(1)
This section applies only to The Corporation of the District of
Kitimat, The Corporation of the District of North Cowichan, and The
Corporation of the District of Powell River.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the Council may by by-law provide that personal
property as defined in section 426a of the
Municipal Act
shall be improvements for the purpose of levying debt rates pursuant
to clause (b) of subsection (1) of section 206 of the
Municipal Act
in respect of any debenture debts outstanding as at the thirty-first
day of December, 1964, during the currency of any debentures issued
under the by-laws authorizing the said debts.
(3)
Debenture debts under subsection (2) include indebtedness of The
Corporation of the District of Powell River incurred under section 247
of the
Municipal Act
and section 13 of the
Powell River Incorporation Act
, being chapter 108 of the Statutes of 1955, which are not chargeable
to a specified area under the latter Act.
1965-30-2.
Redemption of debentures
7D
(1)
After the last of any series of debentures issued pursuant to the
District of Burnaby Debt Refunding Act, 1940
, the
District of Burnaby Debt Refunding Act, 1946
, the
City of Greenwood Debt Refunding Act, 1941–42
, the
City of North Vancouver Debt Refunding Act
, the
District of North Vancouver Debt Refunding Act
, the
City of Port Coquitlam Debt Refunding Act, 1941–42
, the
City of Port Moody Refunding Act, 1935
, the
City of Prince Rupert Refunding Act, 1935
, and the
Victoria City Debt Refunding Act, 1944
, becomes redeemable, the Council of the municipality concerned may
cause to be transferred in trust to the Minister of Finance the full
amount of money required to redeem any debentures and interest coupons
of such series unpresented for redemption.
(2)
The Minister of Finance shall, upon presentation to the municipality
of any unredeemed debentures referred to in subsection (1), pay to the
municipality, upon the order of its Treasurer, the principal amount of
the debentures together with the value of any interest coupons
attached thereto.
(3)
Upon the transfer to the Minister of Finance of the full amount of
money required under subsection (1) for any such debentures, the said
debentures shall be deemed to have been redeemed and fully paid for
the purposes of the applicable Act aforesaid.
1965-30-2.
Boundary Commissioner
7E
(1)
This section applies only with respect to municipalities within the
Regional Districts of Fraser-Cheam, Fraser-Burrard, Dewdney-Alouette,
and Central Fraser Valley.
(2)
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may by Order
appoint a Commissioner to determine and redefine the boundaries of any
municipality deemed by such Order to be uncertain, and upon such
determination being approved by the Minister, the Lieutenant-Governor
in Council may by supplementary Letters Patent redefine the boundaries
of the municipality accordingly.
1968-35-2.
Extension of tax penalty date
7F
The following by-laws are not invalid with respect to their
application in the year 1967 by reason only that they were adopted
after the time prescribed in subsection (2) of section 384 of the
Municipal Act:
District of Hudson's Hope By-law No. 47 cited as "Percentage Additions
By-law No. 47"; District of Squamish By-law No. 253 cited as
"Percentage Addition Extension By-law No. 249, 1967, Amendment By-law
No. 253, 1967"; District of Port Hardy By-law No. 15 cited as
"Percentage Addition By-law"; Town of Castlegar By-law No. 325 cited
as "The Corporation of the Town of Castlegar to designate dates for
percentage additions upon current taxes for 1967."
1968-35-2.
Qualification of voters
7G
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, any person who was a resident in, or the owner of land in, the
District of Gold River, the District of Mackenzie, the District of
Port Alice, or the Village of Fraser Lake, as the case may be, one
month prior to the thirty-first day of October, 1967, was qualified to
have the person's name entered upon the list of electors of the
relevant municipality provided that person was otherwise qualified.
1968-35-2; 2023-10-679.
Expropriation for airport purposes
7H
Subject to Division (4) of Part XII of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Grand Forks, the City
of Kelowna, or The Corporation of the City of Revelstoke may by by-law
expropriate, without the municipality, any real property, or any
interest therein, required for airport purposes.
1968-35-2.
Certain revenue fund deficits validated
8
The creation of a deficit or portion thereof in the general revenue
fund operations of any municipality in and for the year ending on the
thirty-first day of December, 1958, by the participation of the
municipality in the Municipal Winter Works Incentive Programme of the
Government of Canada shall not be construed as a violation of the
provisions of subsection (1) of section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, but such deficit or portion thereof shall be a first charge upon the
general revenue of that municipality for the year 1959 and shall be
included as an expenditure for recovery in the annual budget for the
year 1959.
1959-57-2.
Cache Creek
Frontage tax for waterworks prior to March 27th, 1961
8A
Notwithstanding section 317 of the
Municipal Act
, Division (3) of Part IX of that Act applies to the Local District of
Cache Creek, and all acts and things done by the Council or by the
Commissioner of that municipality prior to the enactment of this
section relating to the imposition of a frontage tax for waterworks
purposes are valid and are deemed to have been within the powers of
the said municipality.
1961-45-3.
Cumberland
Conveyance of school lot, Nelson District
8B
(1)
Notwithstanding the conditions of any Crown grant, the provisions of
the
Public Schools Act
or any other Act, The Corporation of the Village of Cumberland may
grant and convey to the Board of School Trustees of School District
No. 71 (Courtenay) all the right, title, and interest of the former
City of Cumberland in and to all that parcel or lot of land situate in
Nelson District and known as "School Lot and School Addition, Nelson
District," as registered in Absolute Fees Book, Volume 20, Folio 43,
Numbers 6188c and 6189c.
(2)
The Registrar of the Victoria Land Titles District may accept for
registration, free from any condition or trust, any such conveyance.
1961-45-3; 1978-25-333.
Arrears of taxes
8C
Taxes in arrear imposed under section 8a shall be deemed to be
delinquent real-property taxes imposed under the
Taxation Act
.
1962-43-2.
Dawson Creek
Letters Patent validated
9
In order to remove any doubt or uncertainty whatsoever, the Letters
Patent of The Corporation of the City of Dawson Creek and the Order in
Council authorizing their issue on the thirtieth day of December,
1957, are hereby declared to be confirmed and validated.
1958-35-6.
Surrey
Exchange of Robson Park
10
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Surrey is
empowered to do all the necessary acts and things required to exchange
the property presently known and dedicated as Robson Park and
described as Lot 3 of Section 32, Block 5 north, Range 2 west, New
Westminster District, as shown on Plan 9881 on file in the Land Titles
Office, New Westminster, for the property described as Parcel F of Lot
B, Block 1 of Section 32, Block 5 north, Range 2 west, New Westminster
District, Plan 5671, as shown on Reference Plan 15643 on file in the
Land Titles Office, New Westminster, and Lot C of Section 32, Block 5
north, Range 2 west, New Westminster District, as shown on Plan 18038
on file in the Land Registry Office, New Westminster, and Lot B of
Section 32, Block 5 north, Range 2 west, New Westminster District, as
shown on Plan 18258 on file in the Land Titles Office, New
Westminster, providing that the property acquired by the exchange is
dedicated by by-law as a park to be known as "Robson Park."
1958-35-8; 1978-25-334.
Dyking assistance
10A
The Corporation of the District of Surrey shall be deemed to have had
full power and authority to grant aid to the Surrey Dyking District in
the year 1962 and in any previous year, and the making of such grants
and the procedures followed in so doing are declared to have been
validly exercised.
1963-30-2.
Agreements between Surrey and Greater Vancouver Water District
10B
Notwithstanding any requirement of the
Municipal Act
, the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, and any other Act, the agreement entered into between The
Corporation of the District of Surrey and the Greater Vancouver Water
District on the twenty-eighth day of December, 1961, and the agreement
entered into between The Corporation of the District of Surrey and the
Greater Vancouver Water District on the thirty-first day of January,
1962, are valid and binding on The Corporation of the District of
Surrey and the Greater Vancouver Water District, whether the same
would otherwise be ultra vires of either or both of the corporations
or not; and the respective parties to the agreements may carry out and
give full force and effect to every covenant, agreement, stipulation,
condition, and provision in the agreements, according to the terms
thereof; and everything done by the Greater Vancouver Water District
under and by virtue of the agreements is and shall be deemed to be for
the purpose of the undertakings authorized by the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
; and any indebtedness of The Corporation of the District of Surrey
under and by virtue of the agreements shall be excluded from the
general debt of the municipality in determining its borrowing powers
and shall not be deemed to be an indebtedness of the municipality for
the creation of debts by the issue of debentures or otherwise.
1962-43-3.
Financing of trunk sewers
10C
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Surrey
(hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") may adopt, without the
assent of the owner-electors, by-laws
(a)
for the purpose of the construction of a system of trunk
sewerage-works for the collection, conveyance, and disposal of sewage,
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forcemain
sewers and their pump-houses and such ancillary drainage-works for the
impounding, conveying, and discharging of surface and other waters, as
are necessary for the proper laying-out and construction of the said
system of sewerage-works; and the total amount to be raised annually
for the retirement of debt (including principal and interest) incurred
for such works shall be levied and raised by a mill rate on the
taxable assessed values for general purposes of land only of all real
property within the area to be benefited, as defined by the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, save for land defined by any
by-law of the Corporation now or hereafter as agricultural land, or
such lesser area as the Council may from time to time define by
by-law; and
(b)
for the purpose of constructing lateral sewerage-works for the
collection, conveyance, and disposal of sewage, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, such maintenance holes and
connecting drains as it deems necessary; and the amount required
annually for the retirement of debt (including principal and interest)
incurred for such works may be raised by the imposition of rates and
charges pursuant to section 532 of the
Municipal Act
;
and the amount required for the operation and maintenance of the works
referred to in clauses (a) and (b) may be raised in the manner
provided in clause (b).
(2)
Clause (b) of subsection (1) of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
applies with respect to borrowing money for the construction of sewers
and sewerage-works pursuant to this section.
1968-35-2; 2023-10-680.
Utilities
10D
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), where, in the opinion of the Council of The
Corporation of the District of Surrey (hereinafter called the
"Corporation"), it is not possible or desirable to install public
utilities in, on, or over streets or lanes, the Council may from time
to time, for the purpose of providing such public utilities,
(a)
determine and define the location and extent of
(i)
the land within the municipality on, over, or under which the
utilities shall pass; and
(ii)
what other land within the municipality shall be required for access
to and from the aforesaid lands to construct, repair, and maintain the
utilities adequately; and
(b)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, a plan or plans showing to the
satisfaction of the Registrar of the New Westminster Land Titles
District the location and extent of the lands so determined and
defined by the Council and whether the said lands will be used for the
utilities or only for access thereto and therefrom.
(2)
This section applies only where the land on, over, or under which the
utilities shall pass is capable of being directly connected to the
utility works to be installed on, over, or under that land.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph (i) of clause (a) of
subsection (1), the Council of the Corporation shall not include any
land on, over, or under which utilities are to pass where such land is
more than 3 m from the nearest registered property-line, measured at
right angles to such line, without first having applied to the Board
of Variance established pursuant to section 708 of the
Municipal Act
for an adjudication as to the necessity of the Corporation determining
and defining such land pursuant to this section, and whether or not
such determination causes undue hardship to the owner concerned. Where
the Board is satisfied that the proposed easement is necessary and no
undue hardship will be caused, it shall so certify. The Board of
Variance is empowered to so adjudicate, and an appeal lies to a Judge
of the County Court from the decision of the Board.
(4)
Before adjudicating on the merits of the Corporation's application,
the Board of Variance shall first have satisfied itself that the
Corporation has caused written notice of the time, place, and nature
of the proposed adjudication to be served upon the persons who are
owners (as defined in the
Municipal Act
) of the lands affected, and service of such notice shall be deemed
sufficient if sent at least two weeks before the adjudication by
registered mail to such persons in accordance with section 401 of the
Municipal Act
.
(5)
The costs and incidental expenses of causing written notice to be
given pursuant to subsection (4) shall be borne by the Corporation.
(6)
The plan or plans shall be
(a)
certified by the Mayor and Clerk of the Corporation as having been
made pursuant to and in accordance with a determination and definition
of the Council under this section; and
(b)
certified by the Chair of the Board of Variance where an adjudication
made pursuant to subsection (3) has upheld in whole or in part the
Corporation's application, and that no undue hardship is caused
thereby;
and upon deposit of the plan or plans in the land titles office for
the New Westminster Land Titles District, the Corporation shall, in
respect to the lands shown on the plan, be entitled to,
(c)
in the case of land to be used for the utilities, the rights set forth
in Part I of the Schedule hereto; and
(d)
in the case of land required for access to and from the utilities, the
rights set forth in Part II of the Schedule hereto,
as if the said rights had been granted to the Corporation by the owner
or owners of the said lands and of all interests therein, save and
except the Crown; and upon compliance with the
Land Titles Act
, the Registrar of the said land titles district shall register the
said rights against the said lands as a charge by way of right-of-way
without any further grant or instrument or the production of the
duplicate certificate of title to the said lands.
(7)
The determination and definition of any lands by the Council as
aforesaid shall be conclusive and binding on all persons except the
Crown owning or having an interest in the lands, and upon registration
of the said rights the same shall take priority over all other
interests and charges registered against the lands except those
registered in the Crown.
(8)
For the purpose of this section, the words "public utility" and
"utility," or the plural thereof, include, without limiting the
generality thereof, sewers and sewerage.
(9)
Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to limit the right of the
Corporation, pursuant to the expropriation provisions of the
Municipal Act
, to acquire any interest in land which it otherwise would have had
the right to acquire.
(10)
The Corporation shall not be required to make or pay any compensation
for or in respect to the rights acquired under this section or
anything done thereunder except the actual cost of repairing,
replacing, or relocating any fence, building, shrub, garden plant, or
other improvement which may be damaged, destroyed, or moved by the
Corporation in the exercise of any rights acquired by it under this
section.
(11)
The owner or owners of the lands on, over, or under which the
Corporation shall have acquired any rights under this section shall
not do or permit to be done on the said lands any of the acts, deeds,
or things set forth in Part III of the Schedule hereto, and the
Corporation shall observe and perform, and shall cause to be observed
and performed, the conditions, stipulations, and things set forth in
Part IV of the Schedule hereto.
(12)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may make rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this section in respect to the aforesaid plan or
plans and other matters contained in subsections (1), (10), and (11).
Schedule
Part I.— Rights on, over, or under Lands to Be Used for the
Utilities
For the Corporation by its servants, agents, licensees, and
workers to enter and re-enter upon the said lands and to cut
down, trim, and remove trees, shrubs, plants, fences, buildings,
and other improvements and things growing, placed, constructed,
or otherwise upon the said lands and to construct, repair,
replace, maintain, and keep up sewers, drains, water and gas
mains, electric, communication, and telephone lines, and other
public utilities, and all works and things required in
connection therewith.
Part II.— Rights on, over, and under Lands Required for Access
to the Utilities
For the Corporation by its servants, agents, licensees, or
workers to enter and re-enter and pass and repass on and over
the said lands with or without vehicles, machinery, instruments,
and tools for the purpose of exercising the rights set forth in
Part I of this Schedule.
Part III.— Acts Not to Be Done by the Owners
The owners shall not build, erect, or place upon the said lands
anything that will interfere with the rights of the Corporation
on, over, or under the said lands, or any works, vehicles,
equipment, instruments, tools, or utilities taken, placed, left,
or constructed upon the said lands.
Part IV.— Conditions and Stipulations to Be Performed and
Observed by the Corporation
The Corporation shall not unnecessarily damage, remove, or
destroy any tree, shrub, plant, fence, building, improvement, or
other thing upon the said lands, and will erect and maintain
proper safeguards about its works and will remove all rubbish
and debris from the said lands as soon as possible.
1968-35-2; 1977-53-1; 1978-25-333 to 335; 2023-10-681.
Alberni
Validation of lease agreement
11
It is declared lawful and within the powers of the Corporation of the
City of Alberni to have entered into a lease with MacMillan &
Bloedel (Alberni) Limited for the acquisition of those certain pieces,
parcels, or tract of land and premises known as part of Lot 2, part of
Lot 5, and part of Lot 6, Alberni District, according to the indenture
made between the said company and the said city.
1959-57-3.
Burnaby
Special powers re specified areas for sewers
12
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of any by-laws of The Corporation of
the District of Burnaby (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in
respect of sanitary sewers or combined sanitary and storm sewers under
which debts are presently owing by the Corporation to the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District under agreements entered into
pursuant to the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
, or under which debentures of the Corporation are presently
outstanding, the Council of the Corporation may, by by-law with the
assent of the owner-electors, provide
(a)
that from a specified date no levies shall be imposed, raised, or
levied under the terms of the said by-laws;
(b)
that from the said specified date the requisite sums required to be
raised under the said by-laws in respect of the said sanitary sewers
and combined sanitary and storm sewers shall be levied and raised by
way of real-property taxes in each year by a rate, over and above all
other rates on all the taxable land and improvements in the
Corporation, at the same time and in the same manner as other rates,
sufficient to make up any known or anticipated deficiency in the
amounts raised or to be raised by sewer-connection charges, frontage
taxes, sewer rentals, or any other special rates, charges, or taxes
imposed by the Corporation for the annual payment of interest on and
for the repayment of the principal of the said debts owing and said
debentures outstanding.
Storm-sewers portion of costs
(2)
The provisions of subsection (1) shall not affect the sharing of the
costs under any of the said by-laws as between the owners and the
Corporation at large in respect of any combined sanitary and storm
sewers.
Special rates for other than debt
(3)
The provisions of subsection (1) shall not act to bar the Council from
including amounts required for the annual estimated expenses of
management, maintenance, and operation of the said sanitary sewers or
for the estimated annual cost of extensions, renewals, and
improvements to the said sanitary sewers in any special rates,
charges, or taxes imposed therefor.
1959-57-4.
Accounting and control for special charges
13
The Treasurer of the Corporation shall keep all revenues from
sewer-connection charges, frontage taxes, sewer rentals, and any other
special rates, charges, or taxes in respect of the said sanitary
sewers or combined sanitary and storm sewers in a special account,
separate and distinct from all other accounts of the Corporation, and
shall use the said revenues to the extent available, first, for the
payment of principal and interest on debentures of the Corporation
issued in respect of the said sanitary sewers or combined sanitary and
storm sewers and for payments required to be made to the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District under agreements entered into
pursuant to the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
in respect of the said sanitary sewers or combined sanitary and storm
sewers; second, for payment of the expenses of management,
maintenance, and operation of the said sanitary sewers or combined
sanitary and storm sewers; and, third, for payment of the cost of
extensions, renewals, and improvements to the said sanitary sewers or
combined sanitary and storm sewers.
1959-57-3.
Inauguration of five-year capital expenditure programme
14
(1)
Instead of submitting, under the
Municipal Act
, for the assent of the owner-electors a by-law providing for
contracting debts by borrowing or otherwise, the Council of the
Corporation may by by-law submit for the assent of the owner-electors
a question substantially in the following form:—
Are you in favour of the Council of The Corporation of the
District of Burnaby without further assent of the owner-electors
at any time or from time to time within five years from
[being a date determined by the Council]
contracting debts by borrowing or otherwise, not to exceed in
the aggregate the amount of seven million dollars, for the
purpose of constructing, reconstructing, extending, renewing,
and improving the sanitary sewerage system and the drainage
system of the Corporation?
Borrowing therefor
(2)
Notwithstanding section 247 or clause (e) of section 251 of the
Municipal Act
or section 7 of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
, when the assent of the owner-electors has been given in response to
a question authorized by subsection (1), the Council may thereafter,
at any time or from time to time within the period specified and
without further assent of the owner-electors, adopt a by-law or
by-laws providing for the contracting of debts by the issue and sale
of debentures or otherwise in such amounts, not exceeding in the
aggregate the said amount of seven million dollars, as the Council of
the Corporation may deem necessary for any or all of the purposes
named in the said question.
1959-57-3.
Further financing
14A
For the purpose of completing the sewerage and drainage systems of the
Corporation, started before the enactment of this provision and
financed as provided for under section 14, the Council may borrow a
further sum or sums not exceeding in the aggregate six million five
hundred thousand dollars under the provisions of clause (b) of section
253 of the
Municipal Act
without the requirement of having a certificate of self-liquidation in
respect of such systems.
1964-34-2.
Exception
15
The exercise of the powers granted under section 14 for contracting
debts without the further assent of the owner-electors shall not act
to bar the Council of the Corporation from exercising any powers
granted under the
Municipal Act
or the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
.
1959-57-3.
Municipal Act
provisions apply
16
The exercise of any of the powers under sections 12 to 14, inclusive,
shall not act to relieve the Council of the Corporation from any other
requirement of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, except to the extent as provided under such
sections.
1959-57-3.
Termination of powers
17
The powers granted under section 14 are exhausted when the principal
amounts of the debts so contracted amount in the aggregate to the sum
of seven million dollars.
1959-57-3.
Use of surplus proceeds of debenture by-law
17A
Where debentures are issued by The Corporation of the District of
Burnaby pursuant to a debenture by-law adopted under section 606 of
the
Municipal Act
and there is a surplus over and above the amount required for the
purposes of the construction by-laws referred to in the debenture
by-law,
(a)
in addition to exercising the powers under subsection (2) of section
604 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council may, by by-law approved by the Inspector of
Municipalities, appropriate a part or all of the surplus for the
purpose of a subsequent construction by-law, and in that event the
amounts to be specially charged against parcels of land and payable by
the Corporation under the subsequent construction by-law shall include
the amount appropriated together with interest thereon at the rate
prescribed in the debenture by-law; and
(b)
section 606 of the
Municipal Act
applies mutatis mutandis.
1963-30-3.
Borrowing
17B
(1)
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Burnaby may, with
the approval of the Inspector of Municipalities, by by-law or by-laws
adopted without the assent thereto of the owner-electors, provide for
contracting a debt or debts for the purpose of constructing and
equipping a building or buildings for the administration of justice
and related facilities.
(2)
The provisions of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of clause (a) of subsection
(1) of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
apply, mutatis mutandis, to a by-law adopted under subsection (1).
1965-30-2.
Castlegar
Validation of extension of boundaries
18
The supplementary Letters Patent extending the boundaries of The
Corporation of the Village of Castlegar, issued under authority of
Order in Council No. 1330, approved on the fourth day of June, 1958,
are hereby declared valid and binding.
1959-57-3.
Vesting of land
18A
The lands, the title to which are registered in the Nelson Land
Registry Office under Certificate of Title No. 74790i, are vested in
The Corporation of the Village of Castlegar, free from any trust or
condition but otherwise subject to the exceptions and reservations
contained in the original grant from the Crown, and the Registrar of
the Nelson Land Registration District may, upon
(a)
being advised by the Public Utilities Commission that it has no
objection;
(b)
production of a copy of this Act; and
(c)
compliance with the
Land Registry Act
,
issue to that Corporation a certificate of indefeasible title to the
said lands, free from any trust or condition but subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown. No fees are payable on the application under items 5 and 6 of
the Scale of Fees, Second Schedule, of the
Land Registry Act
.
1965-30-2.
Letters Patent
18B
The supplementary Letters Patent extending the boundaries of the Town
of Castlegar, issued the twenty-eighth day of December, 1967, pursuant
to Order in Council No. 3919/67, are confirmed and validated as of the
date of issue.
1968-35-2.
Coquitlam
Validation of certain debenture by-laws
19
Notwithstanding the requirements of the
Municipal Act
or of any other Act, By-law No. 907, cited as "The District of
Coquitlam Local Improvement Consolidation Debenture By-Law No. 907,
1959," and By-law No. 910, cited as "The Corporation of the District
of Coquitlam Local Improvement Consolidation Debenture By-Law No. 910,
1959," and By-law No. 911, cited as "The Corporation of the District
of Coquitlam Local Improvement Consolidation Debenture By-Law No. 911,
1959," all of The Corporation of the District of Coquitlam, are
declared in all respects good and valid by-laws and within the powers
of the Council to enact.
1959-57-3.
Assumption of part of local improvement cost
19A
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 617 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Coquitlam may by
by-law provide that the Corporation assume fifty per centum of the
annual costs levied or to be levied under the provisions of "The
Corporation of the District of Coquitlam Pipeline Road Paving and Loan
By-law No. 1098, 1963," as amended, and forty per centum of the annual
costs levied or to be levied under the provisions of "The Corporation
of the District of Coquitlam Coast Meridian Road Paving and Loan
By-law No. 1125, 1964," as amended.
(2)
A by-law adopted under this section shall be deemed to have come into
force and effect on the first day of January, 1965.
1966-34-2.
Election of school trustees
19B
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of section 115 of the
Municipal Act
, a petition pursuant to the said section 115 to have the election of
school trustees elected at the annual election in the year 1965 in The
Corporation of the District of Coquitlam declared invalid may be filed
within ten days from the date upon which this Act comes into force and
effect.
(2)
In the event that the election referred to in subsection (1) is
adjudged invalid, every by-law, contract, or other proceeding adopted,
entered into, or taken by the Board of School Trustees prior to the
adjudication is, if otherwise within the jurisdiction and powers of
the Board, hereby declared to be valid.
1966-34-2.
Sewerage works
19C
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or by-law of the municipality adopted pursuant to Division (2) of Part
XVI, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Coquitlam may,
by by-law, without the assent of the owner-electors, provide that all
specified areas for sewerage works established, extended, and merged
pursuant to that Division are merged and the area extended to include
the entire municipality and establish a municipal enterprise including
all the sewerage works of the municipality and sewerage-works
hereafter constructed.
(2)
Such portion of the annual requisition on the municipality by the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, for sanitary
sewerage purposes (other than charges pursuant to subsection (3) of
section 7 of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
) as the Council may from year to year determine, may be charged to
the general revenue of the municipality if the charge on the general
revenue does not exceed the product of four mills on the assessed
value of all land and improvements taxable for general purposes.
(3)
In each of the years 1967 to 1971, inclusive, such portion of the
annual cost of the construction, operation, and maintenance of the
said municipal enterprise as the Council may determine, may be charged
to the general revenue of the municipality if the charge to general
revenue together with the charge under subsection (2) does not exceed
the product of four mills on the assessed value of all land and
improvements taxable for general purposes.
(4)
The provisions of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
apply to the said municipal enterprise as if a certificate of
self-liquidation had been granted therefor.
1967-30-2.
Fraser Mills
Validation of election, 1958
20
The election of Councillors at the annual municipal election for The
Corporation of the District of Fraser Mills held in December, 1957,
and the membership of the Council as thereby constituted is confirmed,
and the actions and things done by the said Council, if within the
powers granted to a district municipality, are declared lawful.
1959-57-3.
Matsqui
Assessment rolls and notices
20A
With respect to the years 1961 and 1962, no real-property assessment
roll, assessment notice, or Court of Revision of The Corporation of
the District of Matsqui, or any procedures involving them, shall be
deemed to be invalid or without lawful authority only because of
non-compliance with required statutory dates.
1962-43-4.
New Westminster
Enabling powers for toll-bridge and guarantee for borrowing
21
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Act but not in any way
limiting the powers granted under any other Act, the Corporation of
the City of New Westminster (hereinafter called the "city") may
(a)
construct, or cause to be constructed, and operate a toll-bridge over
and across the North Arm of the Fraser River, which may be located
either wholly within or partly within and partly without the
boundaries of the city, together with all such works and things as are
necessary or incident thereto;
(b)
by by-law borrow without the assent of the owner-electors such sum or
sums, not exceeding in the aggregate four million dollars, for such
purpose;
(c)
by by-law issue from time to time, as necessary, debentures in
principal amounts not exceeding in the aggregate four million dollars
for the repayment of such borrowing or borrowings pursuant to the
requirements of the
Municipal Act
relating to the issue of debentures, except that the assent of the
owner-electors is not required to any such by-law, and the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council may guarantee the payment of the
principal of and interest on such debentures, and the
Municipalities Assistance Act
applies, mutatis mutandis, with respect to the guarantee;
(d)
fix and collect fees or tolls for the use of such bridge and to vary
the same from time to time as deemed advisable;
(e)
acquire lands, real and personal property, easements, and
rights-of-way required under clause (a).
1959-57-3.
Management of toll-bridge
22
For the management of such bridge there shall be appointed a Board
consisting of three persons, who shall serve without remuneration, one
of whom shall be the Mayor for the time being of the city, who shall
be the Chair of the Board, and two other persons, not being members of
the Council, but who are owner-electors of the city, appointed by the
Council, subject to the following conditions:—
(a)
The appointments, other than the Mayor, shall be for a term of two
years, or until a successor is appointed:
(b)
In making the first appointment the Council shall appoint one person
for a two-year term and the other for a one-year term:
(c)
Upon the death or resignation of a member of the Board, or on the
member's ceasing to be an owner-elector, or, being a city officer or
other employee, on the member's ceasing to be employed by the city,
the member's term shall determine, and the Council shall forthwith
appoint a successor who shall serve for the unexpired term of such
member:
(d)
The Council may reappoint for a further term or terms a person whose
term shall have expired.
1959-57-3; 2023-10-682.
Operation of and the fixing of charges for use of the bridge
23
The Board shall
(a)
operate and maintain the bridge in good repair, and for that purpose
employ such staff as may be required, except that the Treasurer of the
city shall be the Treasurer of the Board;
(b)
fix, subject to the approval of the Council, any fees or tolls to be
paid by all users of the said bridge. The Board may, in its
discretion, enumerate, designate, distinguish, subdivide, classify, or
exempt any or all trades, businesses, professions, occupations,
callings, employments, or purposes of such users according to the
character or type of use, or according to the dimensions or weight of
a vehicle, and may differentiate and discriminate according to such
classifications as to the amount of the fees or tolls to be imposed or
to be exempted, and in fixing such fees or tolls the Board and the
Council shall have due regard to providing for the annual amounts
required for
(i)
the payment of interest and for the repayment of the debenture debt;
and
(ii)
operating costs; and
(iii)
maintenance charges (not exceeding in any one year one-tenth of one
per centum of the capital cost of such bridge); and
(iv)
an allowance for repairs; and
(v)
any extraordinary costs or expenses; and
(vi)
any deficit in any year arising from the operation of the bridge;
(c)
submit annually to the Council on or before the fifteenth day of
November a statement showing the estimated revenues and expenditures
for the ensuing year and such other information as shall be required
by the Council;
(d)
comply with all the provisions of the
Municipal Act
relating to an administrative body handling municipal funds;
(e)
utilize the services of the appropriate officers and departments of
the city whenever possible for maintenance and repairs;
(f)
repay advances from the city.
1959-57-3.
Treasurer may make advances
24
The Treasurer of the city is authorized from time to time to advance
such moneys as may be necessary to meet authorized expenditures of the
Board.
1959-57-3.
Surplus of funds
25
Any surplus of revenue over expenditure remaining at the end of each
year shall be paid into the credit of the Sinking Fund Account or any
special reserve account set up for retirement of the debentures until
such accounts in the aggregate shall be sufficient to meet all
debentures outstanding or unpresented for payment together with
interest thereon to maturity. Thereafter such surplus shall be the
property of the city.
1959-57-3.
Municipal enterprise
26
The said bridge, so long as the provisions of this Act apply to it,
shall be deemed to be a municipal enterprise for the purpose of
Division (1) of Part VI of the
Municipal Act
.
1959-57-3.
Separate accounts
27
All revenue received from the operation of the bridge shall be paid
into a separate bank account of the city, and all expenditures
concerning the bridge shall be a charge upon the account.
1959-57-3.
Definition of "capital cost"
28
All costs and expenses of any nature and kind incurred by the city or
on its behalf in connection with and incidental to the construction of
the bridge shall form a part of the capital cost of the bridge and
shall be met out of the net proceeds obtained from the sale of
debentures.
1959-57-3.
Action after debenture debt provided for
29
When all the debentures issued under the authority of section 21 are
retired or there is on hand in the Sinking Fund Account, together with
that on hand in the special reserve account, sufficient moneys to
retire any debentures outstanding or not presented for payment
together with interest thereon to maturity, the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may declare that as and from a certain date all the provisions
of this Act applicable to the said bridge shall cease and determine;
but any surplus of such moneys over and above that required for the
repayment of the principal of and the payment of the interest on such
debentures shall thereupon be transferred to the general revenue
account of the city.
1959-57-3.
Special policing powers
30
The Council of the city may, subject to the approval of the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council, assume the responsibility of the
policing of the whole of any bridge, including the approaches thereto,
operated under the provisions of sections 21 to 23, inclusive. In any
Order approved under the provisions of this section, the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council may specify the portions of Part XX of
the
Municipal Act
applicable therefor.
1959-57-3.
Validation of previous Acts of Council
31
The provisions of sections 21 to 30, inclusive, come into force and
effect on the first day of June, 1954, and all acts of any nature and
kind heretofore performed by the city or on its behalf, authorized
thereunder, are hereby ratified and confirmed.
1959-57-3.
Oak Bay
Water-front property
31A
Notwithstanding section 477 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Oak Bay may, by
by-law, absolutely lease the real property described as Block B,
Section 23, Victoria District, Plan 368, including any foreshore
rights appertaining thereto now or hereafter acquired, for a term,
including any option for renewal, not exceeding in the aggregate
thirty years.
1962-43-5.
Peachland
Repeater facilities
31B
The Council of The Corporation of the District of Peachland has and
shall be deemed always to have had the authority to construct,
operate, and maintain relay or repeater facilities for improving the
reception of television signals within the area of the municipality.
1962-43-6.
Port Alberni
Power to enter into lease agreement
32
The Corporation of the City of Port Alberni is empowered to enter into
a lease agreement with the Corporation of the City of Alberni for the
acquisition for sewerage purposes of those certain pieces, parcels, or
tract of land and premises known as part of Lot 2, parts of Lot 5, and
part of Lot 6, Alberni District, for a period in excess of twenty
years and without the assent of the owner-electors, upon such terms as
may be mutually agreed upon.
1959-57-3.
By-law remains in force
32A
Notwithstanding the non-compliance with the provisions of paragraph 20
of the Letters Patent issued for the City of Port Alberni, uniting the
former Corporation of the City of Alberni and the Corporation of the
City of Port Alberni, the by-law of the former City of Alberni known
and cited as the "City of Alberni Flood Control and Johnson Road
Reconstruction By-law, 1965, No. 587," remains in full force and
effect on and from the date of issue of the said Letters Patent.
1968-35-2.
Quesnel
Validation
33
All acts and things done by the Council of The Corporation of the Town
of Quesnel, prior to the enactment of this section, relating to the
establishment of a public library under the
Public Libraries Act
are hereby declared valid and within the powers of the said Council
and Corporation.
1959-57-3.
Extension of boundaries
33A
In the event that supplementary Letters Patent are issued pursuant to
the
Municipal Act
extending the boundaries of the Town of Quesnel to include the lands
described as "That part of Lot 77, north of the Cariboo Highway, Plan
H 697, except Plans 10773, 11448, and 13497 and District Lot 78 and
District Lot 7264" the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may,
notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, provide, inter alia, that
(a)
until January 1, 1973, no business tax pursuant to section 427 of the
Municipal Act
shall be imposed by the Council of the Town of Quesnel;
(b)
subject to clause (a), no by-law adopted by the Council of the Town of
Quesnel pursuant to the said section 427 shall fix different rates of
business tax for different classes of business and the provisions of
clauses (a), (b), and (c) of subsection (1) of that section do not
apply with respect to the Town of Quesnel;
(c)
subject to clause (a), the maximum rate of taxation under the said
section 427 shall not exceed one-fifth of the maximum rate of taxation
otherwise permitted by the said section;
(d)
the said lands be designated as an industrial plant site under
subsection (3) of section 12 of the
Municipal Act
and specify the works or services concerned; and
(e)
until January 1, 1973, in each year the value of the cost of the
specified works and services referred to in clause (d) to be credited
to the industrial plant site shall be deemed to be the difference
between the product of the mill rate imposed for municipal purposes on
the remainder of the municipality and the product of the mill rate
which would have been imposed on the industrial plant site under the
Taxation Act
in such year had the boundaries of the municipality not been extended.
1967-30-2.
Richmond
General
34
In addition to and without limiting the generality of the rights and
powers contained in the
Municipal Act
relating to dyking and drainage, but subject to the
Water Act
and the
Dykes Maintenance Act
, The Corporation of the Township of Richmond (hereinafter referred to
as the "Corporation") has the powers and duties hereinafter provided
in respect to dykes, drains, and works incidental thereto.
1959-57-3.
Control of other persons
35
The Council may by by-law
(a)
prescribe conditions governing the design, installation, maintenance,
repair, alteration, and removal of any ditch crossing, culvert,
bridge, ramp, dyke crossing, causeway, road, footpath, or similar
access works by any person other than the Corporation, wherever
located;
(b)
provide for the appointment of an official to whom may be delegated
the power to prescribe for such cases not prescribed by by-law under
clause (a).
1959-57-3.
Limitation
36
Nothing in sections 34 to 45, inclusive, shall be construed as
granting any person other than the Corporation the right to install,
maintain, repair, alter, or remove any works described in clause (a)
of section 35.
1962-43-7.
Saving provision re private access work
37
No action shall lie against the Corporation arising out of the
negligent design, installation, maintenance, repair, alteration, or
removal of any private access works from, to, or across any dyke,
drain, or works incidental thereto, or land adjacent thereto and
connected therewith, and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, whether or not such access works are on, in, or over any
highway, or whether or not such access works are from, to, or across
any private or public works pertaining to dyking or drainage, or
whether or not such access works conform to a by-law adopted by the
Council pursuant to the powers herein contained, or whether or not
such access works have been or are the subject of a valid permit
issued on behalf of the Corporation.
1959-57-3.
Extensions into another municipality
38
With the consent of the Council of an adjacent municipality first
obtained, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, the
Corporation may, with the approval of the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council, extend any portion of the dyking or drainage system of the
Corporation into that municipality.
1959-57-3.
Saving provision, closing off of private access
39
No action shall lie against the Corporation arising out of the
exercises of any of the rights or powers pertaining to dyking and
drainage conferred upon the Council by this or any other Act by reason
only of the closing off or limiting of access from or to any real
property, whether it be to or from a highway as defined by the
Municipal Act
or to or from any other real property.
1959-57-3.
Access control
40
The Council may require persons requesting any type of access to,
along, through, under, or over any portion of the municipal dyking or
drainage systems to enter into a written contract with the Corporation
by way of easement or right-of-way agreement, and may require such
covenants to the benefit of the Corporation as the Council deems fit,
and further require that the covenants of such persons be bonded or
otherwise guaranteed to the satisfaction of the Council.
1959-57-3.
Disposition of special levy
41
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this or any other Act
contained, the right granted to the Council by the
Richmond Drainage and Dyking Act, 1936
, to impose an annual levy for the amalgamated dyking and drainage
district shall continue in full force and effect for the year 1959,
and the money so levied shall be taken into the revenue fund (general
section) of the Corporation for the purpose of repaying the amount
owing to the said fund by the amalgamated dyking and drainage
district, and the amount so owing shall be thereby extinguished.
1959-57-3.
Closing of an account
42
The sum of eight hundred and fifty-nine dollars and ninety-eight cents
together with any interest accrued thereon at the time of transfer,
being the amount in the account of the Lulu Island West Dyking
District, shall be closed out and transferred to the revenue fund
(general section) of the Corporation.
1959-57-3.
Special powers for and acquisition of works
43
(1)
In order that title to those lands occupied by the dyking and drainage
systems protecting the land-mass of the municipality may be vested
solely in the Corporation, and in order that necessary easements and
rights-of-way be created to give the Corporation reasonable access
thereto, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, upon the application of
the Corporation, may appoint a Commissioner whose duties and powers
shall be
(a)
to determine and define the location and extent (as at the first day
of January, 1959) of those lands in the municipality occupied by such
dyking and drainage systems, and of those other adjacent lands
reasonably required by the Corporation for the support and maintenance
of such system; and
(b)
to determine and define the location and extent (as at the first day
of January, 1959) of those lands in the municipality required by the
Corporation for reasonable and necessary access to such systems; and
(c)
to prepare, or cause to be prepared, a map or plan, or maps and plans,
showing by line, colour, or writing, or by any combination of these
means, in whole or in part, the matters determined and defined under
clauses (a) and (b).
(2)
A Commissioner appointed under this section shall adjudicate upon
every application made by the Corporation to have lands determined and
defined pursuant to subsection (1).
(3)
Before determining or defining any lands under subsection (1), the
Commissioner shall cause written notice of the time and place of the
proposed adjudication to be served upon the persons who are owners of
the lands affected (as defined in the
Municipal Act
), and service of such notice shall be deemed sufficient if sent at
least two weeks before the adjudication by registered mail to such
persons in accordance with section 401 of the
Municipal Act
.
(4)
The costs and incidental expenses of carrying out the provisions of
this section shall be borne by the Corporation; but nothing herein
contained shall be construed as imposing any obligation upon the
Corporation to pay the costs or any expenses of persons presenting
grievances to the Commissioner.
Registration of title to and charges on real property pertaining to
dyking and drainage systems
44
(1)
Every determination of the Commissioner under section 43 is final and
binding, and the deposit of a map or plan in the New Westminster Land
Titles Office delineating the matters determined and defined under
section 43 and certified as correct by the Commissioner operates as a
conveyance of any of the said lands and works thereon and therein to
the Corporation, and the Corporation is entitled to be registered as
the owner of the lands in fee-simple, free from any charge or
encumbrances thereon, save and except those in favour of the Crown;
and the Registrar of Titles, upon being satisfied that the map or plan
has been properly certified and deposited, may, without production of
the former certificate or duplicate certificate of title, register the
title claimed by the Corporation in the register of titles; and upon
the similar certification and deposit of a map or plan delineating the
easements and rights-of-way, the municipality is entitled to have
registered in its favour a charge upon the lands affected for the
following purposes and including the full, free, and uninterrupted
right, liberty, and right-of-way for the Corporation, its licensees,
assigns, servants, officials, and workers, at all times thereafter by
night and day and at their will and leisure for the benefit of the
Corporation:—
(a)
To enter, labour, go, return, pass, and repass, with and without
machinery and vehicles, upon and along the delineated lands; and
(b)
To clear the said delineated lands and to have them, including the
subsoil thereof, remain at all times unoccupied by any embankment,
fill, building, structure, driveway, fence, or other obstruction;
and the Registrar, upon being satisfied that such map or plan has been
properly certified and deposited, may register the charge by way of
easement in gross, running with the land, against the property
concerned in the name of the Corporation.
(2)
No person shall be deprived of the right of title to any foreshore to
which but for the operation of this Act the person would have
otherwise been entitled.
1959-57-3; 1978-25-334; 2023-10-683.
No compensation
45
The Corporation shall not be required to pay compensation for any
right, title, or interest acquired under sections 34 to 44, inclusive.
1959-57-3.
Effect of ss. 34 to 45
45A
No right, title, or interest acquired under sections 34 to 45,
inclusive, shall be deemed to be a resumption of land reserved in any
Crown grant.
1962-43-11; 1963-30-4; 1977-53-1.
Repealed
45B
[Repealed 1978-31-6.]
Dyking district lands
45C
The Corporation of the Township of Richmond is entitled to be
registered as the owner in fee-simple, free from all encumbrances
thereon save and except those in favour of the Crown, of those lands
to which title has been acquired by or which are held in trust for
(a)
the Lulu Island Amalgamated Dyking and Drainage District;
(b)
the Lulu Island Dyking District;
(c)
the Lulu Island West Dyking District;
(d)
the New Lulu Island Slough Dyking District;
(e)
the Steveston Dyking and Drainage Maintenance Area;
(f)
the Sea Island Drainage District;
(g)
the Sea Island Dyking District;
(h)
the No. 6 Road Canal District;
(i)
the No. 7 Road Canal District; and
(j)
the No. 8 Road Canal District
without further proof on the part of the Corporation of the
inoperative status of any of those districts, and the Registrar of
Titles shall, without production of the former or duplicate
certificate of title, register the title of the Corporation in the
register of titles.
1965-30-2.
Trail-Tadanac
Delegation of leasing powers
46
(1)
Notwithstanding subsection (3) of section 628 of the
Municipal Act
, the Councils of The Corporation of the City of Trail, The
Corporation of the District of Tadanac, and The Corporation of the
Village of Warfield may, by concurrent by-laws for the joint
operation, improvement, and maintenance of parks, delegate to a Parks
Commission any of the powers provided by clauses (c) and (f) of
subsection (1) of section 621 of the
Municipal Act
.
Joint Recreation Commission, Village of Warfield
(2)
For the purposes of the establishment of a joint Parks Commission or a
joint Parks and Recreation Commission and for the purposes of
subsection (1), The Corporation of the Village of Warfield is deemed
to be a city municipality.
1959-57-3; 1965-30-2; 1966-34-2.
Amalgamation
46A
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement entered into by The Corporation of the City of Trail
and The Corporation of the District of Tadanac on the twenty-second
day of February, 1968, a copy of which is on file in the offices of
the Inspector of Municipalities, is declared to be within the powers
of, and valid and binding upon, the parties thereto.
(2)
Upon receipt of a request to accept the surrender of Letters Patent
and to issue new Letters Patent reincorporating The Corporation of the
City of Trail and The Corporation of the District of Tadanac as one
municipality as provided for under the agreement referred to in
subsection (1), the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may,
notwithstanding section 26 of the
Municipal Act
, upon the recommendation of the Minister and without the assent of
the owner-electors having been obtained, accept the surrender of the
Letters Patent of The Corporation of the City of Trail and The
Corporation of the District of Tadanac and issue others
reincorporating the municipalities as one municipality to be known as
the "City of Trail."
(3)
Letters Patent issued under this section may include provisions in
respect of any of the matters referred to in section 12 of the
Municipal Act
and such other provisions as the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may
deem proper or necessary, including the conferring of the powers of a
district municipality under Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
.
(4)
If Letters Patent are issued pursuant to subsection (2), the Council
of the Village of Warfield may at any time submit the question of that
municipality amalgamating with the new City of Trail for the assent of
the owner-electors of the village; and if such assent is obtained, the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, notwithstanding the provisions of
section 26 of the
Municipal Act
, accept the surrender of the Letters Patent of The Corporation of the
Village of Warfield and issue supplementary Letters Patent extending
the boundaries of the City of Trail to include the former village, and
the provisions of subsection (3) of this section apply mutatis
mutandis.
1968-35-2.
Burnaby
Temporary borrowing from Local Improvement Fund
47
(1)
Any moneys of the Local Improvement Fund of The Corporation of the
District of Burnaby may be used by the municipality for the purposes
of section 607 of the
Municipal Act
.
(2)
For the purposes of this section, the provisions of section 607 of the
Municipal Act
are deemed to be in full force and effect, notwithstanding the repeal
of section 607 of that Act by section 149 of chapter 33 of the
Statutes of British Columbia, 1968.
(3)
The provisions of this section are retroactive to the extent necessary
to give full force and effect to the approval of the Inspector of
Municipalities dated the fourth day of November, 1968, to The
Corporation of the District of Burnaby By-law No. 5411, cited as
"Burnaby Local Improvement Financing By-law, 1968."
1960-38-2; 1969-23-1.
Houston
Validation of election
48
The election of the Chair and any Commissioner by acclamation to the
Council of The Corporation of the Village of Houston on the first day
of December, 1959, is, notwithstanding section 53 of the
Municipal Act
, valid.
1960-38-2; 2023-10-684.
Port Moody
Validation of agreement
49
Notwithstanding the lack of a by-law or any other requirement of the
Municipal Act
, being chapter 232 of the
Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1948
, the agreement entered into by the City of Port Moody and Port Moody
Coquitlam Development Company, Limited, on the sixth day of June,
1955, is declared valid and binding on both parties to the agreement.
1960-38-2.
Agreement with British American Oil Company
49A
Notwithstanding any requirement of the
Municipal Act
, the agreements entered into by the City of Port Moody and the
British American Oil Company Limited on the ninth day of June, 1958,
and on the fifth day of February, 1962, are valid and binding on both
parties to the agreements.
1962-43-8.
Powell River
Expropriation for airport purposes
50
Subject to the
Expropriation Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Powell River may
by by-law expropriate, without the municipality, any real property, or
any interest therein, required for airport purposes.
1960-38-2; 1987-23-112.
Annual rates by-law of Powell River
50A
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the Council of The Corporation of the District of
Powell River may, in the annual rates by-law, levy upon personal
property as defined in section 426a of the
Municipal Act
, for general purposes as set out in clause (a) of subsection (1) of
section 206, a rate not exceeding
(a)
two mills in and for the year 1965;
(b)
one and one-half mills in and for the year 1966;
(c)
one mill in and for the year 1967; or
(d)
one-half mill in and for the year 1968.
1965-30-2.
Victoria
Parking-decks, malls, and boulevards
51
(1)
Notwithstanding any Statute or law to the contrary but subject to
Division (4) of Part XII of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Victoria, in order to
make provision for the public parking of vehicles, may, by by-law
adopted by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the
members thereof,
(a)
construct, or cause or permit to be constructed, either in whole or in
part, on, along, across, or over View Street, in the city, a parking
deck or decks or similar structure or structures together with such
ramps, stairways, escalators, and other works as may be deemed
expedient or desirable for such purpose; and
(b)
hold, maintain, use, and approve such structures and works and charge
and collect fees, rents, and rates for the use or occupation thereof
and lease the same or any of them, or any part or parts thereof, or
any real property acquired for use in connection therewith, upon such
terms and conditions and subject to such reservations and for such
rent or other consideration, and for such term not exceeding twenty
years, including any and all renewals of such term, as the said
Council may deem expedient or desirable; and
(c)
do and perform any and all other acts and things incidental to the
aforesaid purpose, including, but without restricting the generality
of the foregoing, the improvement of the said View Street, or any
portion or portions thereof, or any portion or portions of that part
of Broad Street lying between the said View Street and Fort Street in
the said city, by the construction and maintenance of malls and
boulevards therein and thereon.
Expropriation
(2)
For the purpose aforesaid and for the purpose generally of providing
off-street parking facilities pursuant to section 866 of the
Municipal Act
, but subject always to Division (4) of Part XII thereof, the Council
may, by by-law and without the consent of the owners of the property
hereinafter mentioned,
(a)
expropriate, take, enter upon and into possession of and use such real
property as may be deemed expedient or desirable by the said Council;
(b)
expropriate, take, enter into possession of and use any leasehold
interest in or any right, title, or other interest in and to real
property and any easement or right appurtenant to such real property
and any easement in, over, or upon the same; and
(c)
direct such taking, entering upon and into possession and use of such
real property or leasehold interest therein or right, title, or
interest therein or easement or right appurtenant thereto or in, over,
or upon the same forthwith after the by-law shall have come into
effect.
Levying rates
(3)
Subject to and in the manner provided by the
Municipal Act
, the
Victoria City Debt Refunding Act, 1937
, and the
Victoria City Debt Refunding Act, 1944
, the Council may borrow the whole or any part of the estimated cost
of the works and improvements aforesaid, or of any of them; and if in
the opinion of the Council it is expedient so to do, the works and
improvements or any of them may be undertaken either in whole or in
part as a work or service for the special benefit of a specified area
of the municipality, and in such event Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
, for the purposes of borrowing and the levying of rates, charges, and
taxes and otherwise, applies in respect of the works and improvements
or portion or portions thereof so undertaken in the same manner and to
the same extent as if the city were a district municipality.
Parking-meter revenue
(4)
(a) In the event that the Council deems it expedient to borrow the
whole or any portion of the estimated cost of the aforesaid works and
improvements and for such purpose to issue and sell debentures, the
Council may, by by-law adopted by an affirmative vote of at least
two-thirds of all the members of the Council and approved by the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council, establish a reserve fund, into which
there shall be paid in each year so much of the current revenue
derived or to be derived from the operation of parking-meters within
the city as the Council may by such by-law determine; and
(b)
The moneys so set aside shall be deposited in a bank, and until
required may be invested in the manner provided by section 287 of the
Municipal Act
, and shall, together with any interest earned thereon, be applied in
each and every year during the currency of the aforesaid debentures in
payment of the sum or sums payable annually for the principal of and
interest on the said debentures, and the balance (if any) remaining
from time to time in such fund, after payment of the aforesaid annual
debt charges as the same become due and payable, shall not be expended
except for the purpose of financing the acquisition, development, and
improvement of real and personal property to provide off-street
parking facilities within the said city and to finance capital
expenditures for extensions or renewals of existing off-street parking
facilities, including the works and improvements aforesaid, and then
only by a by-law adopted by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds
of all the members of the Council, and approved by the Minister of
Municipal Affairs, who may direct that before such approval is given,
the by-law shall receive the assent of the owner-electors; and
(c)
Any and all moneys applied or to be applied as aforesaid in payment of
the aforesaid debt charges shall, for the purposes of section 251 of
the
Municipal Act
, be deemed to be revenue derived or to be derived from the aforesaid
works and improvements.
(5)
Where a by-law is adopted under subsection (3) invoking the powers
provided under Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
, the Council may by by-law, at any time, exercise the powers under
section 600 of the
Municipal Act
.
1960-38-2.
West Vancouver
Removal of dedication
52
(1)
Notwithstanding that Lots 3 to 6, inclusive, Block S of Blocks 27 to
34, in the easterly portion of District Lot 775, Group 1, New
Westminster District, Plan 4105, have been allocated, reserved, and
dedicated for parks purposes by by-law of The Corporation of the
District of West Vancouver, the Corporation may sell any or all of the
said lots to any person, provided that the proceeds from any sale
shall be set aside and reserved for capital parks purposes of the
Corporation.
(2)
The Registrar of Titles of the Vancouver Land Titles District may
accept for registration, free from any allocation, reservation, or
dedication for park purposes, any conveyance of any of the said lots
from the Corporation to any person.
1960-38-2; 1978-25-333.
Removal of restriction
52A
Notwithstanding the
Land Titles Act
or any other Act, all that part of the closed portion of street
(Reference Plan 3160) adjacent to the south boundary of Block 20a
(Plan 3439), District Lot 555, Group 1, New Westminster District, and
described as follows: Commencing at the north-west corner of said
portion of closed street; thence east along the north boundary thereof
a distance of 312.0 feet; thence south a distance of 23.62 feet;
thence S. 71° 00´ E. a distance of 68.75 feet, more or less, to the
intersection with the south boundary thereof; thence west along a
portion of the south boundary a distance of 187.16 feet, more or less,
to a bend; thence S. 60° 00´ W. along a portion of the said south
boundary a distance of 47.85 feet, more or less, to a bend; thence N.
71° 00´ W. along a portion of the south boundary a distance of 156.95
feet, more or less, to the south-west corner of the said closed
portion of street; thence north along the west boundary thereof a
distance of 18.83 feet, more or less, to the point of commencement,
and containing 0.352 acre, more or less — is hereby freed, cleared,
and released of and from all provisos, conditions, and restrictions
limiting or restricting the use of the land to park purposes.
1966-34-2; 1978-25-332.
Indebtedness to Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District
53
(1)
When the Council of The Corporation of the District of West Vancouver
determines by by-law that an area of that municipality is benefited to
a greater extent than the remainder of the municipality by a facility
of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, the Council
may raise such part of the indebtedness of the municipality to the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District as should, in the
opinion of the Council, expressed by by-law, be paid by the owners of
land in the area rather than by the owners of land in the whole
municipality by levying a rate or rates on the land or improvements,
or both, situate in the area, or by imposing such other charge or
charges thereon or in respect thereof as may be authorized by the
Municipal Act
, or by any combination of these methods.
(2)
Nothing in this section limits, lessens, or affects any liability of
the municipality to the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage
District under the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
or any right or power of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage
District under that Act.
1960-38-2.
Park
53A
Notwithstanding the
Land Titles Act
or any other Act, all that part of Parcel C (Reference Plan 985) of
the East Half of the West Half of District Lot 886, Group One, New
Westminster District, described as follows: Commencing at the
south-west corner of said Parcel C; thence N. 0° 57´ E. along the west
boundary a distance of 543.33 feet, more or less, to the north-east
corner of Lot A, Block F (Plan 12266) of District Lot 886; thence S.
89° 03´ E. a distance of 310.0 feet; thence S. 60° 45´ E. a distance
of 62.75 feet; thence S. 29° 18´ W. a distance of 336.62 feet; thence
S. 0° 57´ W. a distance of 226.84 feet, more or less, to the
intersection with the south boundary of Parcel C; thence N. 89° 26´ W.
along the south boundary of Parcel C a distance of 100.0 feet, more or
less, to a bend; thence N. 83° 32´ W. along the south boundary of
Parcel C a distance of 105.9 feet, more or less, to the point of
commencement and containing 3.23 acres, more or less — is hereby
freed, cleared, and released of and from all provisos, conditions, and
restrictions limiting or restricting the use of the land to park
purposes.
1967-30-2; 1978-25-332.
Kamloops
Agreements with corporations under
National Housing Act
54
The Council of The Corporation of the City of Kamloops may, by by-law
adopted with the assent of the owner-electors, enter into agreements
with any limited-dividend housing corporation operating in the City of
Kamloops under
The National Housing Act, 1944
, of Canada, for the rental of houses to be constructed by such
limited-dividend housing corporation within the City of Kamloops under
the terms and provisions of sections 9 and 10 of Part II of that Act.
1957-42-747.
Release of park from restrictions
54A
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the
Kamloops Public Park Act, 1911
, being chapter 28 of the Statutes of 1911, or of Crown Grant Number
49/300 made under that Act, the land described in section 2 of that
Act is hereby freed, cleared, and released of and from all provisos,
conditions, and restrictions limiting or restricting the use of the
land to the recreation and enjoyment of the public as public parks and
by The Corporation of the City of Kamloops for municipal purposes.
1961-45-3.
New Westminster
Board of Commissioners of Police
55
It is hereby declared that, notwithstanding anything contained in the
New Westminster Act, 1888
, or in any amendment thereto, section 661 of the
Municipal Act
applies to the Corporation of the City of New Westminster.
1957-42-748.
Duty to tax for retirement of certain debentures
56
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this or any
other Act, the Council of the Corporation of the City of New
Westminster, in order to provide funds for the retirement at maturity
of those debentures outstanding on the third day of April, 1947, which
remain outstanding, shall raise annually by rate or rates under the
provisions of section 204 of the
Municipal Act
, inclusive of the amounts specified in the by-laws authorizing the
said debentures, the amounts as follows in the respective years, that
is to say:—
In the years 1957 and 1958, the sum of
............................ $386,004.21
In the year 1959, the sum of
............................................. 384,091.08
In the year 1960, the sum of
............................................. 372,117.01
In the year 1961, the sum of
............................................. 358,907.70
In the year 1962, the sum of
............................................. 354,750.53
In the year 1963, the sum of
............................................. 255,355.60
In the year 1964, the sum of
............................................. 125,617.20
In the year 1965, the sum of
............................................. 109,826.52
(2)
In each of the said years the respective amounts aforesaid shall be
paid into the appropriate sinking fund account, or accounts.
1957-42-749.
Parking facilities
57
Sections 614 and 615 of the
Municipal Act
apply to the Corporation of the City of New Westminster for the
purpose only of providing parking facilities for vehicles as a work or
service for a specified area.
1957-42-750.
Parking-deck
58
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this or any other Act, in order
to make due provision for the public parking of vehicles, it shall be
lawful for the Council of the Corporation of the City of New
Westminster, by by-law passed by two-thirds of all the members
thereof, to construct or cause or permit to be constructed, on, along,
or over Front Street a parking deck, or decks, or similar structures,
together with such ramps and stairways as may be necessary to give
access thereto as are deemed advisable for the purpose aforesaid, and
to do and perform any and all acts necessary therefor. Such ramps or
stairways may be constructed either on Front Street aforesaid or on
such intersecting streets as may be deemed advisable.
(2)
The said Council is further empowered, for the purposes aforesaid, to
maintain and use such structures, or any of them, or any part thereof,
and the means of access thereto, and to charge and collect a fee or
rent charge for its use and occupation, or to lease it to any person
or persons for a term not exceeding twenty years in return for the net
annual revenue derived therefrom during the said term, or to lease for
any term not exceeding twenty years, sublet, allot, or assign such
structures, or any of them, or any part thereof, and the means of
access thereto, to any person or persons upon such terms and
conditions as the Council may deem expedient.
(3)
Should it become necessary for the said Council to incur any debt in
carrying out the provisions of the preceding subsections, then, if the
repayment of such debt is to be levied against all the property-owners
of the said city, the provisions of Part VI shall apply. If such
repayment is intended to be levied only against the property-owners in
a specified area, then the provisions of Division (2) of Part XVI
shall apply.
1957-42-751; 1958-32-322.
Penticton
Sewerage works and services for specific areas
59
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, The Corporation of the
City of Penticton shall have all the powers of a district municipality
pursuant to the provisions of Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
for the purpose of supplying sewerage and sewage-disposal services and
facilities.
1957-42-752.
Chilliwhack
By-law to require voter to vote for as many candidates as there are
vacancies
60
Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the Council of The
Corporation of the Township of Chilliwhack may by by-law require that
each elector in the exercise of the elector's franchise at any poll
for the election of Councillors or School Trustees, as the case may
be, in that municipality shall vote for as many candidates as there
are vacancies to be filled, and any such by-law shall provide that
every ballot not so marked shall be deemed to be a rejected ballot.
1957-42-753; 2023-10-685.
Drainage system
60A
(1)
The Council of The Corporation of the Township of Chilliwhack may
establish a municipal drainage system within the municipality and may
take over and incorporate into such system all ditching areas
established pursuant to the
Township of Chilliwhack Drainage Act
, being chapter 91 of the Statutes of 1951, and all ditches, drains,
streams, and works pertaining thereto.
(2)
One-half of the total outstanding obligations incurred in respect of
ditching areas established under the
Township of Chilliwhack Drainage Act
and owing to the municipality shall be collected by the municipality
by a special rate levied in the manner prescribed in clause (e) of
section 10 of the
Township of Chilliwhack Drainage Act
, and the remainder of those outstanding obligations are cancelled.
(3)
The Council may operate, maintain, extend, improve, and enlarge such
municipal drainage system, and all expenses incurred in connection
therewith shall be met from the general revenue of the municipality.
(4)
The
Township of Chilliwhack Drainage Act
and the
Township of Chilliwhack Drainage Act Amendment Act, 1955
, being chapter 93 of the Statutes of 1955, are repealed.
1964-34-2.
Delta
Dykes and drainage
61
(1)
Sections 34 to 40, inclusive, and sections 43 to 45, inclusive, apply,
mutatis mutandis, to The Corporation of Delta, except that "the first
day of January, 1959," referred to in section 43 shall be read as "the
first day of January, 1962."
(2)
The
Delta Drainage Act, 1936
, is repealed.
1962-43-10.
Spallumcheen
Taxing for special districts
62
The Council of The Corporation of the Township of Spallumcheen may by
by-law
(a)
provide that the municipality acts generally in matters relative to
collecting and disbursing revenues of, and also to keeping proper
accounting records for, any or all improvement districts created
within the municipality under the
Water Act
, or for any or all districts created within the municipality under
the
Drainage, Dyking, and Development Act
;
(b)
provide that the taxes and tolls of any improvement district or of any
drainage, dyking, or development district named in such by-law be
deemed to be special rates imposed and levied pursuant to the
Municipal Act
;
(c)
prescribe an annual fee to be charged against and paid by any such
improvement district or by any drainage, dyking, or development
district for any service rendered to it.
1957-42-755.
Summerland
Power to undertake irrigation-works
63
(1)
The Council of The Corporation of the District of Summerland may, by
by-law adopted with the assent of the owner-electors as hereinafter
provided, undertake irrigation-works for the special benefit of any
area in such by-law described and apportion the cost thereof
(including debenture and by-law expenses) as to the Council seems just
and equitable between the area specially benefited and the
municipality at large, and for such purpose borrow upon the credit of
the corporation by way of debentures sufficient to meet the said cost.
(2)
A by-law adopted pursuant to this section shall provide that the sums
required to be raised annually for the payment of principal and for
interest shall be raised and levied as follows: Firstly, by a rate on
all the rateable land (exclusive of improvements) within the area
specially benefited sufficient to yield the amount required to be
borne by the area in accordance with the apportionment aforesaid; and,
secondly, by rate on all the rateable land, or land and improvements,
within the municipality (including the lands within the area specially
benefited) sufficient to yield the amount required to be borne by the
municipality at large in accordance with the apportionment aforesaid.
(3)
A by-law adopted pursuant to this section, in addition to receiving
the assent of the owner-electors of the municipality, shall also be
submitted to and receive concurrent like assent of the owner-electors
of the area defined in the by-law.
(4)
Before being submitted for the assent of the owner-electors of the
area specially benefited and of the municipality, every such by-law
shall be subject to the approval of the Inspector of Municipalities as
are money by-laws under Part VI of the
Municipal Act
.
(5)
No by-law adopted pursuant to this section shall be altered or
repealed by the Council except with the approval of the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council, who may, before approving, direct that
the proposed alteration or repeal be submitted for the assent of the
owner-electors of the area specially benefited and of the
municipality.
1957-42-756.
Salmo
Vesting of park in village
64
Notwithstanding the
Land Titles Act
or any other Act, the dedication of that portion of Lot 206a, Village
of Salmo, described as "Park" on Plan 2710, containing 4.468 acres,
for use as a park is deemed no longer to apply, and the title thereto
is deemed vested in The Corporation of the Village of Salmo free from
any restriction, and the Council of the said Corporation may do all
the necessary acts and things required to exchange the property for
the property described as Block A of Lot 206a, Village of Salmo, Plan
4263, but the title to the latter described property when vested in
the said Corporation shall be recorded as being restricted for use
only for public park purposes and other municipal purposes.
1961-45-3; 1962-43-9; 1978-25-332.
Vancouver
Conveyance of land
65
Notwithstanding the
Vancouver Charter
or any other Act, the Council of the City of Vancouver may, without
the assent of the electors, and with or without consideration, convey
to the Vancouver General Hospital all or any part or parts of Lots C
and D, Block 377, District Lot 526, Group 1, New Westminster District,
in the City of Vancouver.
1962-43-12.
Discharge of policemen
66
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
, all members of the Vancouver Police Department who have been
discharged by the Chief Constable and who have not taken proceedings
to set aside such discharge are hereby declared to be lawfully
discharged, and no action shall be brought against the Chief Constable
or any other person in respect of such purported discharges.
1962-43-12.
Delta
Waterworks
67
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Act, any area defined and
established under the provisions of the
Delta Water Works Act, 1929
, being chapter 71 of the Statutes of 1929, as amended by the
Delta Water Works Act, 1929, Amendment Act, 1932
, is deemed to be a specified area established under Division (2) of
Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
for the purposes of constructing, operating, and maintaining a
waterworks system.
(2)
The
Delta Water Works Act, 1929
, and amendments thereto are repealed.
1963-30-5.
68
By-laws numbered 1027, cited as "Delta Local Improvement Frontage Tax
By-law (By-law No. 541), 1963," 1028, cited as "Delta Local
Improvement By-law (By-law No. 577), 1963," 1029, cited as "Delta
Local Improvement By-law (By-law No. 629), 1963," 1030, cited as
"Delta Local Improvement By-law (By-law No. 652), 1963," 1031, cited
as "Delta Local Improvement Frontage Tax By-law (Water Main By-law No.
688), 1963," 1032, cited as "Delta Local Improvement Frontage Tax
By-law (Road By-law No. 688), 1963," 1033, cited as "Delta Local
Improvement By-law (By-law No. 707), 1963," 1034, cited as "Delta
Local Improvement By-law (By-law No. 759), 1963," and 1035, cited as
"Delta Local Improvement By-law (By-law No. 896), 1963," of The
Corporation of Delta are declared valid and binding from the dates of
adoption thereof.
1963-30-5.
Agreement with water district
68A
Notwithstanding any requirement of the
Municipal Act
, the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, and any other Act, the agreement entered into between The
Corporation of Delta and the Greater Vancouver Water District on the
thirty-first day of January, 1964, is valid and binding on The
Corporation of Delta and the Greater Vancouver Water District, whether
the same would otherwise be ultra vires of either or both of the
corporations or not, and the respective parties to the agreement may
carry out and give full force and effect to every covenant, agreement,
stipulation, condition, and provision in the agreement, according to
the terms thereof, and everything done by the Greater Vancouver Water
District under and by virtue of the agreement is and shall be deemed
to be for the purpose of the undertakings authorized by the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
.
1964-34-2.
North Delta sewer taxes
68B
Notwithstanding any requirements of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act or by-law of the municipality, all taxes levied under
"North Delta Sewer Main Construction (Stage One) By-law, 1956, No.
649" are declared lawful on and from the date of adoption of the said
by-law.
1965-30-2.
Mission City
Local improvement by-laws
69
Notwithstanding any provision of any other by-laws of The Corporation
of the Town of Mission City, By-law No. 356, cited as "The Corporation
of the Town of Mission City Cedar and 12th Street Local Improvement
Borrowing By-law No. 356-1961," and By-law No. 358, cited as "The
Corporation of the Town of Mission City Block 68 Local Improvement
Borrowing By-law No. 358, 1962," are declared valid from the date of
adoption thereof.
1963-30-6.
City of North Vancouver
Agreement confirmed
69A
Notwithstanding any requirement of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the agreement entered into by The Corporation of the
City of North Vancouver and Conwest Exploration Company Limited on the
tenth day of July, 1963, is declared valid and binding on both parties
to the agreement.
1964-34-2.
City of North Vancouver agreement
69B
Notwithstanding the provisions of any general or private Act, the
agreement entered into upon the second day of December, 1964, between
the Burrard Inlet Tunnel and Bridge Company, of the first part, the
Montreal Trust Company, of the second part, and The Corporation of the
City of North Vancouver, The Corporation of the District of North
Vancouver, The Corporation of the District of West Vancouver, the City
of Vancouver, and Eva Winnifred Cotton, of the third part, is hereby
declared valid and binding among the parties to the agreement.
1965-30-2.
Review of assessment rolls
69C
Any Court of Revision of The Corporation of the City of North
Vancouver convened prior to April 30, 1967, to consider and deal with
frontage-tax assessment rolls for sewer facilities made available by
the Corporation to properties after May 13, 1963, has the power to
review, correct, and confirm such assessment rolls as and from the
dates such sewer facilities were actually available to each of the
properties referred to therein, and such Court of Revision shall be
deemed to have fulfilled all of the requirements of sections 419 to
424, inclusive, of the
Municipal Act
upon authentication of the frontage-tax assessment roll for such
properties.
1967-30-2.
Tax sale
69D
No sale of real property at the tax sale of The Corporation of the
City of North Vancouver conducted on the thirtieth day of September,
1967, is invalid by reason only that such sale was conducted by the
Assistant Collector.
1968-35-2.
Agreement confirmed
69E
Notwithstanding any requirement of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the Agreement entered into by The Corporation of the
City of North Vancouver and Northern Engine & Equipment (B.C.)
Ltd. on the twenty-first day of March, 1966, is declared to have been
validly made by, and within the powers of, the municipality.
1968-35-2.
District of North Vancouver
Frontage and other taxes for certain sewers
70
(1)
In this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
"borrowing by-laws"
means By-law No. 2344, being "District of North Vancouver 'Sewer
Lateral Area A,' By-law, 1958," By-law No. 2373, being "District of
North Vancouver 'Sewer Lateral Area B,' By-law, 1958," and By-law No.
2816, being "District of North Vancouver 'Sewer Lateral Area F-2,'
By-law, 1961";
"frontage-tax by-laws"
means By-law No. 2423, being "Sewer Lateral Area A Frontage-tax
By-law, 1959," By-law No. 2469, being "Sewer Lateral Area B
Frontage-tax By-law, 1959," and By-law No. 2877, being "Sewer Lateral
Area F-2 Frontage-tax By-law, 1962";
"municipality"
means The Corporation of the District of North Vancouver;
"sewers"
means sanitary sewers.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other by-law, from and after the
first day of January, 1963,
(a)
the Council of the municipality shall not impose, raise, or levy any
levy under By-law No. 2094, being "District of North Vancouver Western
Sewerage Area No. 1, By-law, 1956," or under By-law No. 2112, being
"District of North Vancouver Western Sewerage Area No. 1, By-law,
1956, Confirmation and Extension By-law";
(b)
any general frontage tax hereafter imposed in the municipality for
sewers shall not apply in respect of real property any present or
previous owner or present occupier of which is liable for frontage tax
under the frontage-tax by-laws;
(c)
the amount payable annually in respect of any parcel of land by way of
frontage tax imposed under the frontage-tax by-laws shall not exceed
the maximum amount payable annually in respect of a parcel of land
under any general sanitary-sewer frontage-tax by-law hereafter adopted
by the Council of the municipality; and
(d)
notwithstanding the provisions of section 617 of the
Municipal Act
, the borrowing by-laws, and By-laws Nos. 2094 and 2112 of the
municipality, the sums required to be raised under those by-laws in
respect of sewers shall be levied and raised by way of real-property
taxes in each year by a rate over and above all other rates on all the
taxable land and improvements within the municipality at the same time
and in the same manner as other rates, sufficient to make up any known
or anticipated deficiency in the amounts raised or to be raised by a
frontage tax, sewer-user charge, and any other special rate, charge,
or tax imposed by the Council of the municipality for the annual
payment of interest on and for the repayment of the principal of the
debts owing and debentures outstanding under those by-laws, and any
further sanitary-sewer money by-laws adopted from time to time by the
Council.
(3)
The Treasurer of the municipality
(a)
shall keep all revenues from the frontage tax imposed under the
borrowing by-laws and under the frontage-tax by-laws and any other
special rate or tax imposed by the Council of the municipality in
respect of the sewers in a special account; and
(b)
shall use those revenues for the payment of principal and interest on
debentures of the municipality issued in respect of the sewers.
(4)
The exercise of any of the powers under subsection (2) does not
relieve the municipality from any other requirements of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, except to the extent provided under subsection (2).
1963-30-7.
Local improvement
70A
(1)
Subject to subsections (2) and (3), By-law No. 3482, cited as "Ditch
Elimination Local Improvement Cost-sharing Formula By-law," as amended
by By-law No. 3643, cited as "Ditch Elimination Local Improvement
Cost-sharing Formula By-law, Amending By-law, 1968," of The
Corporation of the District of North Vancouver is hereby declared to
apply retroactively to By-law No. 3577, cited as "North Lonsdale Road
Improvement Construction By-law, 1967," and By-law No. 3617, cited as
"Pemberton Heights Road Improvement Construction By-law, 1967."
(2)
The Council shall cause to be published, in a newspaper published or
circulating in the municipality, notice, in a form approved by the
Inspector of Municipalities, that the works of local improvement
provided for in By-law No. 3577 or By-law No. 3617, as the case may
be, will be subject to the provisions of By-law No. 3482 as so
amended, unless within thirty days of the last publication thereof
forty per centum of the owners of land liable to be specially charged
under the by-law concerned file objections with the Clerk.
(3)
If forty per centum or more of the owners of land liable to be
specially charged under the by-law concerned file objections within
thirty days of the last publication of the notice, the provisions of
subsection (1) do not apply.
1968-35-2.
Sidney
Submission of question
71
Notwithstanding section 213 of the
Municipal Act
, the submission of questions in the year 1962 to the owner-electors
of The Corporation of the Village of Sidney at times other than the
annual election in 1962 is declared valid.
1963-30-8.
Sewer rates and charges
71A
Notwithstanding the lack of a frontage tax assessment roll and a Court
of Revision therefor and the failure to impose and collect the rates
and charges as provided for under "Sidney Sewer Frontage Charge By-law
No. 32, 1954," and "Sidney Sewer Rental Regulation By-law No. 33,
1954," of The Corporation of the Village of Sidney, it is hereby
declared that the rates and charges imposed by the Corporation up to
and including the thirty-first day of December, 1964, in lieu of the
rates and charges that should have been imposed under those by-laws
were lawfully imposed and collectable in respect of each parcel of
land to the extent such in lieu rates and charges were in accordance
with a formula common to all other parcels of a like classification.
1965-30-2.
Validation of annual rates by-law
71A
Notwithstanding the non-conformity with statutory dates, "The Village
of Sidney Tax Rates By-law No. 200, 1965," and "The Village of Sidney
Annual Budget By-law No. 201, 1965," are declared valid.
1966-34-2.
Squamish
Agreement
72
(1)
Notwithstanding any other Act, the agreement entered into by The
Corporation of the Village of Squamish and Westway Developments
Limited on the ninth day of November, 1962, is declared valid and
binding on both parties to the agreement as and from that date.
(2)
Sections 470 and 473 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to the undertaking made by the Council of The Corporation
of the Village of Squamish on the thirtieth day of October, 1962, to
convey lands obtained from the Indian band owning Lot 4267, Stawamus
Indian Reserve No. 24, to Westway Developments Limited.
(3)
Notwithstanding any lack of authority under the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the Village of Squamish has and
shall be deemed always to have had the authority, by by-law, to
acquire lands either within or without the municipality for the
purpose of developing such land, either directly or indirectly, for
residential, commercial, or industrial uses, or any combination of
these uses.
1963-30-9.
Purchase of land
72A
The purchase by The Corporation of the Village of Squamish from the
Pacific Great Eastern Railway Company of fifty-six acres, more or
less, of unsubdivided land in District Lot 4261, Group 1, New
Westminster District, and the borrowing of the sum of sixty thousand
dollars therefor is deemed to have been lawful and within the powers
of the municipality.
1965-30-2.
Letters Patent
72B
The Letters Patent of the District of Squamish and the Order in
Council authorizing their issue on the fifteenth day of December,
1964, are confirmed and validated.
1965-30-2.
Provision for extension of boundaries
72C
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the tax rate applied by the District of Squamish to
the taxable value of the following parcels of land in order to provide
the moneys required for the flood control and dyking carried out in
the remaining area of the municipality shall not exceed one mill:
District Lot 2351, Group 1, New Westminster District; District Lot
2802, Group 1, New Westminster District; District Lot 5899, Group 1,
New Westminster District, except Lot A (Reference Plan 5238) thereof;
Lot 6232, Group 1, New Westminster District; and Lot 6237, Group 1,
New Westminster District.
(2)
No by-law adopted by the Council of the District of Squamish pursuant
to section 427 of the
Municipal Act
shall fix different rates of business tax for different classes of
business, and the provisions of clauses (a), (b), and (c) of that
section do not apply with respect to the District of Squamish.
(3)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, not less than the amount of business tax (if any)
paid by Rayonier Canada (B.C.) Limited with respect to its operations
on the lands described in subsection (1) shall be excluded from the
general revenue of the municipality and placed in a special fund to be
used for the purpose of constructing a highway connecting the area
known as Woodfibre with the present municipality.
(4)
The provisions of this section come into effect on, from, and after
the date the boundaries of the District of Squamish are extended to
include the parcels of land described in subsection (1).
1966-34-2.
Victoria
Borrowing powers
73
(1)
In anticipation of the receipt by The Corporation of the City of
Victoria of the moneys payable to the said Corporation by the terms of
the will and codicil thereto of Thomas Shanks McPherson, deceased,
probate whereof was granted to The Canada Trust Company on the seventh
day of December, 1962, and notwithstanding subsection (1) of section
247 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council may, with the approval of the Inspector of
Municipalities, by by-law or by-laws adopted without the assent
thereto of the owner-electors, provide for contracting a debt or debts
in an amount or amounts not exceeding in the aggregate the sum of one
million five hundred thousand dollars, provided such debt or debts are
repayable not later than the fifteenth day of May, 1968.
(2)
Moneys borrowed as aforesaid shall only be used for the purpose or
purposes for which, by the terms of the aforesaid will and codicil
thereto, it is provided that the moneys payable thereunder to the said
Corporation are to be used.
(3)
The moneys receivable as aforesaid by the terms of the said will and
codicil thereto shall, on receipt thereof by the said Corporation, be
applied in repayment of the principal amount of the debt or debts
contracted pursuant to any by-law or by-laws adopted under the
provisions of subsection (1), and neither the same nor any part
thereof shall be used for any other purpose unless and until the said
debts have been paid and satisfied in full.
(4)
Except as provided by subsection (1), the
Municipal Act
, other than section 251 thereof, the
Victoria City Debt Refunding Act, 1937
, and the
Victoria City Debt Refunding Act, 1944
, apply to every by-law adopted under the provisions of subsection (1)
and to every obligation issued pursuant thereto in the same manner and
to the same extent as the said Acts would apply to by-laws adopted
under section 248 of the
Municipal Act
.
1963-30-10; 1964-34-2; 1965-30-2; 1966-34-2.
Elections
74
For the purpose of making the
Municipal Act
apply to The Corporation of the City of Victoria in respect to
elections, section 11 of the
Victoria City Act, 1921
, being chapter 76 of the Statutes of 1921, is repealed, and
subsections (1), (2), and (4) of section 13 of the
Victoria City Act, 1921
, as re-enacted by the
Victoria City Act, 1958
, being chapter 74 of the Statutes of 1958, are repealed.
1964-34-2.
Barber-shop closing
75
(1)
In this section,
"business day"
means and includes any day of the week not being Sunday or one of the
days mentioned in section 858 of the
Municipal Act
;
"general closing by-law"
means and includes any by-law adopted by the Council of The
Corporation of the City of Victoria under subsection (2) of section
861 of the
Municipal Act
in relation to barber-shops in the said City of Victoria;
"general closing day"
means the day of each week specified in a general closing by-law as
the day of each week for the entirety of which barber-shops in the
City of Victoria are to be closed for the serving of customers;
"general closing hour"
means the hour specified in a general closing by-law as the hour at
which barber-shops in the City of Victoria are to be closed and remain
closed for the serving of customers on five specified days of each
week;
"optional closing-day by-law"
means any by-law adopted by the Council of The Corporation of the City
of Victoria under subsection (2);
"optional closing day"
means the business day in each week named in any notice or further
notice given under an optional closing-day by-law as the day which, in
the place and stead of a general closing day, is to be the day of each
week for the entirety whereof the barber-shop in respect of which such
notice or further notice is given is to be closed for the serving of
customers.
(2)
Where the Council of The Corporation of the City of Victoria has
adopted a general closing by-law prescribing the times during which
barber-shops are to be closed for the serving of customers, the
Council may by by-law
(a)
provide that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
any such general closing by-law, the provisions thereof specifying a
general closing day shall not apply to any barber-shop the proprietor
or proprietors whereof shall have named an optional closing day
therefor by notice in writing given to the Clerk of the said.
Corporation and in that behalf and
(b)
for the purpose generally of giving effect to the provisions of this
section according to their true intent and meaning, enact such
regulations as the said Council may deem expedient, including, but
without restricting the generality of the foregoing, regulations with
respect to the form of the notice mentioned in clause (a) and the
manner in which and the terms, restrictions, and conditions subject to
and upon which the same may be either given as aforesaid or from time
to time revoked or superseded by further notice or otherwise.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Municipal Act
but subject to the provisions of a by-law adopted by the said Council
under section 862 of the
Municipal Act
, where any notice or further notice naming an optional closing day is
given under an optional closing-day by-law, the barber-shop in respect
of which the same is given shall, in each and every week ensuing after
the week in which such notice or further notice is given and until
either such notice or further notice is revoked in accordance with the
provisions in that behalf contained in such optional closing-day
by-law or the optional closing-day by-law is repealed, be closed for
the serving of customers for the entirety of the optional closing day
named in such notice or further notice, as the case may be, and on the
five other business days of each such week shall be closed and remain
closed for the serving of customers at and after the hour specified in
the general closing by-law as the hour at which barber-shops are to be
closed and remain closed for the serving of customers on five
specified days of each week.
(4)
Every person who either by themselves or with any other person or
persons is the proprietor, operator, or other person having the care,
control, or management of any barber-shop in the said City of Victoria
shall close and keep the same closed for the serving of customers, or
cause the same to be closed and kept closed for the serving of
customers, in accordance with the requirements and provisions in that
behalf contained and set forth in this section.
1964-34-2; 2023-10-686.
Victoria civic arena
75A
(1)
The
Victoria Civic Arena Act
, being chapter 75 of the Statutes of 1945, is repealed, and the
Victoria Memorial Arena Commission is dissolved and ceases to exist.
(2)
All the assets of the said Commission are vested absolutely in, and
all the obligations and liabilities of the said Commission are assumed
by, The Corporation of the City of Victoria.
(3)
Without restricting the generality of subsection (2), The Corporation
of the City of Victoria is vested with the benefit of any and all
contracts made by the said Commission and has full power and authority
to carry out, perform, and fulfil all and singular the terms and
provisions thereof and may enforce and recover upon the same in its
own name, and shall be bound thereby as though originally named
therein as party thereto instead of the said Commission.
1965-30-2.
Sidewalk canopies
75B
(1)
In addition to any powers contained in subsection (1) of section 581
of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Victoria may
undertake, by by-law, the construction and erection of sidewalk
canopies as a local improvement.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 610 of the
Municipal Act
, any work undertaken by the said municipality pursuant to subsection
(1) of this section shall be maintained and kept in repair by the
municipality, and any annual expense incurred thereby shall be
specially charged against the parcels benefiting in the same
proportions as provided for sharing of the cost of the work by the
original construction by-law.
(3)
The Council of the said municipality may, by by-law, cause any work
undertaken pursuant to subsection (1) to be removed, provided that the
municipality shall assume all future levies pertaining to any work so
removed; and in the event that levies were commuted with respect to
any parcel, the commuted value of such future levies shall be paid by
the municipality to the owner of the parcel.
1966-34-2.
Removal of restriction
75C
Lots 549a, 550a, 551a, 563a, 564a, 567a, 568a, and 569a, Victoria
City, the title to which is registered in the Victoria Land Registry
Office under Absolute Certificate of Title No. 15023c, are hereby
vested in The Corporation of the City of Victoria in fee-simple, free
from any trust but otherwise subject to the exceptions and
reservations contained in the original grant from the Crown, and the
Registrar of Titles may, upon production of a copy of this Act and
compliance with the
Land Registry Act
, issue to that Corporation a certificate of indefeasible title to the
said lands, free from any trust but otherwise subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown. No fees are payable on the application under items 5 and 6 of
the Scale of Fees, Second Schedule, of the
Land Registry Act
. Provided, however, that the said Corporation shall not use for any
purpose or dispose of any of the said lots or any portion thereof,
except with the approval of the Capital Improvement District
Commission and the Minister of Public Works.
1966-34-2.
Power to enter
75D
For the purposes of sections 621 and 622 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Victoria, by its
servants or agents, may enter upon, break up, take, or enter into
possession of and use Lot 3, Suburban Lot 12, Victoria City, known as
1002 Caledonia Avenue, and that part of Lot 18, Suburban Lot 12,
Victoria City, lying to the west of the westerly boundary of Parcel B
(D.D. 44038i) of said Lot 18, known as 1036 Caledonia Avenue, subject
always to the provisions of Division (4) of Part XII of the said Act;
provided that the Corporation shall not enter upon, break up, or enter
into possession or use the said lands until it has paid or tendered to
the owners thereof the sum of eighteen thousand seven hundred dollars
in the case of the said Lot 3 and twenty-three thousand one hundred
dollars in the case of the said part of said Lot 18 as interim
compensation, which sums, if paid, shall be set off against the
compensation finally determined pursuant to the said Division (4), and
in each case such sum may be accepted by the person or persons
entitled thereto without prejudice to the rights of them or any of
them to claim a further or greater sum by way of compensation pursuant
to the said Division (4). Upon the application of the Corporation, the
Registrar of Titles shall note upon the titles of the lands concerned
any such payment of interim compensation.
1966-34-2.
By-law validation
75E
Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, By-law No. 5932, being a by-law of The Corporation
of the City of Victoria cited as "Old Court House Tax Exemption
By-law, 1968," and adopted on the eighth day of February, 1968, is
hereby declared to be a valid and effectual by-law and to be within
the powers of the Council of the said Corporation, and to have been
valid and effectual and within the powers of the said Council from the
date of its adoption as aforesaid, and the assessment roll of the said
Corporation for the year 1968 shall be deemed to have been amended in
accordance with and to the extent necessary to give effect to the said
by-law.
1968-35-2.
Kent
Dyking and drainage
76
(1)
For the purposes of this section,
"Agassiz Drainage Area"
means all that land defined by Schedule B to the
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
, being chapter 39 of the Statutes of 1953 (Second Session);
"Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area"
means all that land defined by Schedule C to the said
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
, together with and including the lands contained in the Harrison
Mills Drainage Area hereinafter defined;
"Harrison Mills Drainage Area"
means all those parcels or tracts of land situated in New Westminster
District which are bounded on the north, west, and south by the
southerly, easterly, and northerly limits, respectively, of the
Harrison Mills Dyke right-of-way as shown on Plan 13840 on file in the
Land Titles Office, New Westminster, and on the east by the forty-foot
contour of elevation forming the westerly portion of the foot of
Agassiz Mountain.
(2)
All of the assets of the Harrison Mills Dyking District are hereby
transferred to The Corporation of the District of Kent, and the said
Corporation assumes all of the liabilities of the Harrison Mills
Dyking District, and the said dyking district is hereby dissolved, and
the provisions of this section shall be deemed to have come into force
and taken effect on the first day of January, 1964.
(3)
In addition to and without limiting the generality of the rights and
powers contained in the
Municipal Act
relating to dyking and drainage, the Council of The Corporation of the
District of Kent may
(a)
operate, maintain, protect, or repair, or cause to be operated,
maintained, protected, or repaired, all drainage-works, dykes, pumps,
and pumping machinery now constructed or hereafter to be constructed
in or in connection with the Agassiz Drainage Area, the Harrison Mills
Drainage Area, or the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area;
(b)
construct, or cause to be constructed or installed, any new
drainage-work, dyke, pump, or pumping machinery within or in
connection with the Agassiz Drainage Area, the Harrison Mills Drainage
Area, or the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area which the Council may
deem necessary or advisable;
(c)
reconstruct, relocate, improve, enlarge, or extend all or any part of
the said drainage-works or dykes and replace any pumps or pumping
machinery;
(d)
advance moneys out of the general funds of the Corporation to meet the
costs and expenses of and incidental to or occasioned by the exercise
of any of the powers granted hereby in anticipation of the collection
of the special rates hereinafter mentioned on the condition that the
moneys so advanced shall be recouped to the general funds of the
Corporation as and when the said special rates are received;
(e)
determine each year what proportion of the cost of pumping shall be
deemed to be a drainage cost and what proportion shall be deemed to be
a dyking cost, and to charge such costs accordingly;
(f)
pass by-laws each and every year imposing and levying
(i)
on all real property in the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area and
upon the owners thereof as shown by the last revised assessment roll,
with respect to costs incurred for dyking within the Agassiz Drainage
Area;
(ii)
on all real property in the Agassiz Drainage Area and upon the owners
thereof as shown by the last revised assessment roll, with respect to
costs incurred for drainage within the Agassiz Drainage Area; and
(iii)
on all real property in the Harrison Mills Drainage Area and upon the
owners thereof as shown by the last revised assessment roll, with
respect to costs incurred for drainage within the Harrison Mills
Drainage Area,
special rates to pay the said costs and expenses, including such
amounts (if any) as may be necessary to meet annual payments on
account of principal and interest arising out of any debt incurred
under this section or under the
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
; but the Council may pay out of general revenue in any year an amount
not exceeding ten per centum of the dyking costs chargeable against
the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area.
(4)
Should the Council decide that the cost of any new drainage-work or
dyke, pumps or pumping machinery, or the reconstruction, relocation,
or extension of any drainage-work or dyke, or the replacement of any
pump or pumping machinery, or the cost of expropriating any lands in
the exercise of any of its drainage or dyking powers is too great to
be levied in a single year, the Council may by by-law, subject to the
consent of the Inspector of Municipalities, borrow the necessary money
on the credit of the Corporation, and may by the same by-law authorize
the issuance of debentures to secure repayment of principal and
interest thereon, and shall assess and levy annually until the loan is
repaid, upon all the real property and owners thereof within the
particular drainage area or dyking area concerned, an amount
sufficient for the repayment of principal and interest of the said
loan, within a period
(a)
not exceeding five years, without the assent of the owner-electors to
the by-law; or
(b)
exceeding five years but not exceeding twenty years, with the assent
of the owner-electors of the particular drainage area or dyking area
involved.
(5)
The special rate to pay drainage costs mentioned in clause (f) of
subsection (3) shall be levied against each parcel of land within the
drainage area concerned in proportion to its size, and
(a)
the rate levied to pay drainage costs shall not be greater than the
maximum or less than the minimum rate prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council;
(b)
the special rate to pay dyking costs shall be levied on the basis of
the assessed value of the taxable land and that percentage of the
assessed value of the taxable improvements concerned that is taxed for
the general purposes of the municipality in the year of the levy.
(6)
The by-laws for levying the special rates imposed under this section
shall be passed each year not later than the date of the general
taxation by-law for the year, and all such special rates shall be
owing and payable to the Corporation, and shall be collected at the
same time as the general levy; and all the provisions of the
Municipal Act
as to collection and recovery of rates apply thereto.
(7)
The Council shall keep, or cause to be kept, in its books a separate
account for and of all rates imposed under any by-law passed under
this section, and shall distinguish on its books between the rates
levied in respect of
(a)
the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area;
(b)
the Agassiz Drainage Area;
(c)
the Harrison Mills Drainage Area.
(8)
Subdivision (d) of Division (3) of Part XIII of the
Municipal Act
does not apply within the Agassiz Drainage Area or the Harrison Mills
Drainage Area.
(9)
Any rates and taxes owing to the Corporation and levied under the
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
, continue to be a debt owing to the Corporation, and all the
provisions of that Act and of the
Municipal Act
for recovery of such rates or taxes shall remain in effect until such
rates and taxes have been paid.
(10)
All costs, expenses, and charges incurred by the Council in connection
with the drainage-works and dykes of the Agassiz Drainage Area, the
Harrison Mills Drainage Area, and the Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking
Area from and after the first day of January, 1964, and all debt
charges incurred under the
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
, that fall due from and after the first day of January, 1964, shall
be levied under the provisions of this section.
(11)
The
Agassiz Drainage and Dyking Act, 1953
, is repealed.
1964-34-2; 1965-30-2; 1977-53-1; 1978-25-334; 1980-39-1.
New Westminster
Extension of boundaries
77
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 21 of the
Municipal Act
or the
New Westminster Incorporation Act
, being chapter 42 of the Statutes of 1888, and amendments thereto,
the boundaries of The Corporation of the City of New Westminster may
be extended by including the area contained within the boundaries of
the Connaught Heights Waterworks District, being an improvement
district incorporated under the
Water Act
, as hereinafter provided.
(2)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, by supplementary Letters Patent extend the boundaries of the
city to include the area of the said improvement district.
(3)
The Minister may, before making a recommendation, require and arrange
for obtaining the opinion of the owners of land within the improvement
district on the question of their lands becoming a part of the city,
and all expenses incidental to the holding of any plebiscite shall be
paid by the Minister of Finance out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(4)
If supplementary Letters Patent do issue under subsection (2), all the
provisions of the
New Westminster Incorporation Act
apply to the lands and highways included as if such lands and highways
had been included at the time of the incorporation of The Corporation
of the City of New Westminster.
1964-34-2.
Greater Victoria
Sewage-disposal study agreement
78
The agreement entitled "Agreement re Joint Sewage Disposal Study"
entered into on the sixth day of January, 1965, between The
Corporation of the Village of Sidney, The Corporation of the District
of Central Saanich, The Corporation of the District of Saanich, The
Corporation of the District of Oak Bay, The Corporation of the City of
Victoria, the corporation of the Township of Esquimalt, and the
Minister of Municipal Affairs is declared to be lawful and within the
powers of the municipalities being parties thereto, and is valid and
binding thereon notwithstanding the provisions of any law or Statute
to the contrary; and The Corporation of the City of Victoria is deemed
to be the agent of the parties for the purposes of carrying out and
administering the agreement.
1965-30-2.
Centennial agreement
78A
The agreement entered into by The Corporation of the City of Victoria,
The Corporation of the District of Saanich, The Corporation of the
District of Oak Bay, and the Corporation of the Township of Esquimalt
with the University of Victoria and the Greater Victoria Canadian
Confederation Centennial Society on the eighth day of March, 1966, is
declared to be lawful and within the powers of the parties thereto and
binding on all the parties thereto according to the tenor thereof
notwithstanding the provisions of any other law or Statute.
1966-34-2.
Princeton
Sewerage charges
79
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act or by-law of the municipality, all monthly sewerage
charges levied by The Corporation of the Village of Princeton on or
before the thirty-first day of December, 1964, are hereby declared
lawful and are deemed to have been within the power of the said
municipality, and the municipality may collect all monthly sewerage
charges levied on or before the thirty-first day of December, 1964.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not come into force or effect unless so declared
by a by-law adopted by an affirmative vote of all the members of the
Council of the said Corporation.
1965-30-2.
Saanich
Vesting of lands
80
The lands, the title to which are registered in the Victoria Land
Registry Office under Certificates of Title No. 28255i and No. 28570i,
are hereby vested in The Corporation of the District of Saanich in
fee-simple, free from any trust but otherwise subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown, and the Registrar of Titles may, upon production of a copy of
this Act and compliance with the
Land Registry Act
, issue to that Corporation a certificate of indefeasible title to the
said lands, free from any trust but otherwise subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown. No fees are payable on the application under items 5 and 6 of
the Scale of Fees, Second Schedule, of the
Land Registry Act
.
1965-30-2.
Vesting of title
80A
The lands, the title to which is registered in the Victoria Land
Registry Office under Certificates of Title Nos. 27069i, 134336i,
29141i, and 29146i, are hereby vested in The Corporation of the
District of Saanich in fee-simple, free from any trust but otherwise
subject to the exceptions and reservations contained in the original
grant from the Crown, and the Registrar of Titles may, upon production
of a copy of this Act and compliance with the
Land Registry Act
, issue to that Corporation a certificate of indefeasible title to the
said lands, free from any trust but otherwise subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown. No fees are payable on the application under items 5 and 6 of
the Scale of Fees, Second Schedule, of the
Land Registry Act
.
1966-34-2.
Lands for waterworks
80B
The following described lands:—
(a)
That certain piece or parcel of land being part of Sections 37 and 38,
Victoria District, shown and delineated as park reserve on Plan 402b,
being 16.4 acres in area, more or less;
(b)
Blocks D and C and Lots 2 and 3 in Block 1 of Sections 38 and 39,
Victoria District, Plan 402b, registered under Certificate of Title
No. 73267i; Blocks N, O, and P of Sections 37 and 38, Victoria
District, Plan 402b, registered under Certificate of Title No. 68329i;
Blocks F and E and Lot 21 in Block 6 of Sections 37 and 38, Victoria
District, Plan 402b, registered under Certificate of Title No. 65649i;
Blocks B and R and Lots 4 to 11, inclusive, in Block 1, Sections 38
and 39, Victoria District, Plan 402b, registered under Certificate of
Title No. 77821i; Lot 1, Block 1, Section 39, Victoria District, Plan
402b, registered under Certificate of Title No. 73686i; and
(c)
That part of Section 37, Victoria District, shown outlined in red on
Plan 653 B.L., registered under Certificate of Title No. 386972i,—
are hereby vested in The Corporation of the District of Saanich for
the pleasure, recreation, and community uses of the public and for the
construction, establishment, and maintenance of reservoirs and
waterworks free from any other trust or restriction for park purposes
but otherwise subject to the exceptions and reservations contained in
the original grant from the Crown, and the Registrar of Titles may,
upon production of a copy of this Act and in compliance with the
Land Registry Act
, issue to that Corporation a certificate of indefeasible title to the
said lands subject to the restrictions aforesaid and subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown. No fees are payable on the application under items 5 and 6 of
the scale of fees, Second Schedule, of the
Land Registry Act
.
1967-30-2
Regional park lease
80C
Notwithstanding section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Saanich may enter
into a lease or other agreement with the Regional District of the
Capital of British Columbia for the management, maintenance,
improvement, operation, control, or use as and for a regional park by
the said Corporation of the whole or any part of the real property
acquired or agreed to be acquired by the said regional district under
section 94 of this Act.
1967-30-2.
Financing of sewers
80D
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of any by-laws of The Corporation of
the District of Saanich (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in
respect of sanitary sewers under which debts are owing by the
Corporation or under which debentures of the Corporation are presently
outstanding or authorized, the Council of the Corporation may, by
by-law, with the assent of the owner-electors,
(a)
provide for the establishment of a municipal enterprise consisting of
all municipally owned and operated works, equipment, and facilities
for providing sewerage facilities and for their maintenance,
management, and operation;
(b)
provide that from a date specified in the said by-law no levies shall
be imposed, raised, or levied under the terms of the said by-laws;
(c)
define an area of the Municipality of Saanich which, in the opinion of
the Council of the Corporation, will be served by sewerage facilities
within a period of five years from the said specified date.
(2)
Subsections (3) to (12) shall only come into force upon the adoption
of the by-law referred to in subsection (1).
(3)
From the said specified date the total amount (excluding the
Corporation's portion of the cost assumed under subsection (5) and any
sum for the retirement of debt available from the amount to be raised
as provided in subsection (4)) required to be raised annually for the
retirement of the debt created by the aforesaid by-laws and the
interest thereon, or the debt hereafter to be created for capital
expenditure on or in connection with the said municipal enterprise and
the interest thereon, shall be levied and raised by a tax on each
parcel of real property taxable for general purposes within the area
referred to in clause (c) of subsection (1) or such area extended as
hereinafter provided, as follows, either
(a)
a uniform parcel tax being an equal levy in dollars on each parcel; or
(b)
a mill rate on the taxable assessed value for general purposes of land
only;
provided, however, that the uniform parcel tax under clause (a) or the
levy under clause (b) may be waived or reduced in respect of real
property, any present or previous owner or present occupier of which
has paid all or a portion of the debt and debt charges, excluding
interest, in respect of that portion of the sewerage system of the
Corporation that serves the real property.
(4)
From the said specified date an amount at least sufficient to meet the
annual estimated expenses of management, maintenance, and operation of
the said municipal enterprise (less any amount assumed under
subsection (5)) shall be raised by imposing an annual charge against
the owners or occupiers of real property within the Municipality of
Saanich connected to the sewerage system, in accordance with the
provisions of clause (c) of subsection (1) of section 532 of the
Municipal Act
, and the amount so raised shall be applied, firstly, to meet the
annual expenses of management, maintenance, and operation, and,
secondly, in retirement of the said debt.
(5)
(a) In the event the Corporation enters into an agreement or otherwise
becomes obligated to pay any part of the costs of construction,
operation, maintenance, or use of joint sewerage facilities, such
part, less any amount thereof that the Council of the Corporation
determines shall be paid out of general revenues, shall be charged
against the said municipal enterprise and shall be raised in the
manner provided in subsection (3).
(b)
If, in the opinion of the Engineer of the Corporation, the capacity of
any part of the sewerage-works, equipment, and facilities is in excess
of that required to serve the area referred to in clause (c) of
subsection (1), or such area extended as hereinafter provided, such
portion of the annual cost of the municipal enterprise attributable to
such excess capacity as the Council of the Corporation may determine,
shall be paid out of the general revenues of the Corporation.
(6)
If in any year the total of the amounts levied pursuant to subsections
(3), (4), and clause (a) of subsection (5) are insufficient to meet
the actual requirements in that year for the retirement of the debt of
the said municipal enterprise and the interest thereon and the
expenses of management, maintenance, and operation of the said
municipal enterprise, and the share of costs for which the said
municipal enterprise is responsible under clause (a) of subsection
(5), the deficit shall be a charge on the general revenues of the
municipality for that year.
(7)
From time to time the Council of the Corporation may extend, by
by-law, the boundaries of the area referred to in clause (c) of
subsection (1), and shall in the by-law specify a date within five
years of which the extended area will, in the opinion of the Council
of the Corporation, be served with sewerage facilities; and the
provisions of subsection (1) of section 618 of the
Municipal Act
shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(8)
The Council of the Corporation may, by by-law, with the approval of
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, establish the conditions under
which the municipal enterprise will provide sewerage facilities within
the area referred to in clause (c) of subsection (1).
(9)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (3) and (4), the cost of
laying connecting pipes from sewers to land on which buildings or
structures are situate shall be defrayed by the imposition of a
connection charge under the provisions of section 532 of the
Municipal Act
.
(10)
The exercise of any of the powers under this section shall not
restrict the Council of the Corporation in the exercise of any of the
powers conferred on it by the
Municipal Act
or any other Act except to the extent as provided under this section.
(11)
The exercise of any of the powers under this section shall not relieve
the Council of the Corporation from any other requirement of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act except to the extent as provided under this section.
(12)
Section 253 of the
Municipal Act
applies to the said municipal enterprise as if a certificate of
self-liquidation had been granted therefor.
1967-30-2; 1968-35-2; 1973-152-11.
100 Mile House
Bridge Creek Estate land
81
If any area of land contained in the Bridge Creek Estate is to be or
is included in a municipality, the definition of "owner" in section 2
of the
Municipal Act
is extended to include the holder of land within that estate under a
registered lease agreement, if the agreement contains a covenant
requiring the holder to pay all real-property taxes levied against the
leasehold.
1965-30-2.
Nanaimo
Taxation exemption
82
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act or by-law of the municipality, the following
described lands and improvements thereon are exempt from any taxation
imposed pursuant to "The Corporation of the City of Nanaimo Commercial
Inlet Development By-law, 1964, No. 1184" so long as the buildings
thereon are set apart and in use for the public worship of God: Part
of Amended Lot 1, Block 55, Section 1, Nanaimo District, Plan 584,
included in church-site; Lot A, Section 1, Nanaimo District, Plan
3459, except that part thereof included in Plan 13272; and Lot 5,
Block 12, Section 1, Nanaimo District, Plan 584.
1965-30-2.
Bus purchase and sale
82A
(1)
Notwithstanding the requirements of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, The Corporation of the City of Nanaimo "Bus Purchase
By-law 1965 No. 1225" is declared lawful on and from the date of the
adoption of the said by-law.
(2)
Notwithstanding section 216 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Nanaimo may, by
by-law, sell the buses acquired pursuant to the said "Bus Purchase
By-law 1965 No. 1225" to Nanaimo Transit Limited on such terms and
conditions as are mutually agreed upon.
1966-34-2.
Application of section 75
82B
Section 75 applies mutatis mutandis to The Corporation of the City of
Nanaimo.
1967-30-2.
Campbell River
Amendment of Letters Patent
83
(1)
The Letters Patent of the District of Campbell River and the Order in
Council authorizing their issue on the seventeenth day of December,
1964, are confirmed and validated, and without the assent of the
owner-electors of the municipality the Lieutenant-Governor in Council
may, by supplementary Letters Patent, amend the said Letters Patent by
(a)
excluding from the municipality the area of land described as Block
12, Lot 72, Sayward District, as shown on Plan 2090 on file in the
Land Titles Office at Victoria, B.C., if, prior to the thirty-first
day of May, 1965, at least one-half of the owners of real property in
the area have signed a petition, prepared by and kept in the office of
the Clerk of the municipality, requesting that their lands be so
excluded;
(b)
excluding from the municipality the area of land described as that
part of the Willow Point Waterworks District which is in the
municipality and the adjacent land covered by water in Discovery
Passage, bounded on the east by a line drawn parallel to and one
thousand feet perpendicularly distant from the high-water mark on the
easterly shore of Vancouver Island, if, prior to the thirty-first day
of May, 1965, at least one-half of the owners of real property in the
above-described area have signed a petition, prepared by and kept in
the office of the Clerk of the municipality, requesting that their
lands be so excluded;
(c)
including within the municipality the area of North Campbell River
Waterworks District, if, prior to the thirty-first day of December,
1967,
(i)
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council is so requested by the Trustees of
the District; and
(ii)
at least three-fifths of the qualified owners of real property in the
district who vote on the question are in favour of their lands being
so included;
(d)
including within the municipality the area of Quinsam Heights
Waterworks District, if, prior to the thirty-first day of December,
1967,
(i)
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council is so requested by the Trustees of
the District; and
(ii)
at least three-fifths of the qualified owners of real property in the
district who vote on the question are in favour of their lands being
so included.
(2)
The form of petition referred to in clauses (a) and (b) of subsection
(1) shall be prepared by the Clerk forthwith upon the written request
of at least five resident owners of real property in the said area,
and the Clerk shall cause a notice stating that the petition is
available for signature to be published in a newspaper circulating in
the municipality at least twice prior to the thirtieth day of April,
1965, the first notice being published not less than ten days from the
time of the written request aforesaid.
(3)
The Minister shall cause to be made all the necessary arrangements for
the holding of a poll or polls under clause (c) or (d) of subsection
(1), and subsections (5) and (6) of section 10 and subsection (7) of
section 21 of the
Municipal Act
apply mutatis mutandis.
1965-30-2; 1978-25-334; 2023-10-687.
Supplementary Letters Patent
83A
The supplementary Letters Patent of the District of Campbell River
issued on the 21st day of July, 1966, pursuant to Order in Council
2147/66, and the supplementary Letters Patent issued on the 13th day
of December, 1966, pursuant to Order in Council 3697/66, are confirmed
and validated.
1967-30-2.
Stewart
Extension of boundaries
84
(1)
Notwithstanding Part I of the
Municipal Act
, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by Letters Patent, extend
the boundaries of The Corporation of the Village of Stewart by the
inclusion of any area or areas adjacent thereto and reincorporate the
municipality as a district municipality, and may provide in the
Letters Patent such provisions as the Lieutenant-Governor in Council
may deem proper or necessary for the development of the municipality
in conjunction with any industrial development or expansion in the
area.
Borrowing
(2)
Notwithstanding section 249 of the
Municipal Act
, for the purpose of providing municipal works and services, the
Council of The Corporation of the Village of Stewart may, during the
period ending on the thirty-first day of December, 1969, incur
liabilities or borrow money without the assent of the owner-electors
in such amounts as are approved by the Inspector of Municipalities.
Water and sewerage works
(3)
On or before a date determined by the Minister, the Council of The
Corporation of the Village of Stewart shall adopt and register in the
office of the Inspector of Municipalities a by-law providing for the
purchase of any waterworks and sewerage-works, constructed during the
year 1965 for the purpose of serving properties within the village,
for a sum not exceeding six hundred thousand dollars or the actual
cost of construction, whichever sum is the lesser, and may adopt a
by-law or by-laws for the borrowing of money therefor; provided that
the person from whom such works are purchased has entered into an
enforceable agreement with the village whereby the said vendor agrees
to pay annually to the village the difference between the total
revenues receivable by the village by way of rates, taxes, and charges
from and for the use of the said works and the total of the amounts
required for the payment of interest on and the annual repayment of
principal of the moneys borrowed aforesaid.
Approvals required
(4)
The agreement under subsection (3) is not enforceable unless and until
the Council of the village has adopted, received the necessary
approvals for, and registered in the office of the Inspector of
Municipalities by-laws establishing rates, taxes, and charges as may
be determined by the Inspector of Municipalities for the use of or
opportunity to use the said works.
Application
(5)
The provisions of this section apply to any municipality hereafter
constituted in which the lands comprising the present The Corporation
of the Village of Stewart are included.
1965-30-2.
Lease of sewer and water systems
(6)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), with the approval of
the Inspector of Municipalities, the Council of the Village of Stewart
may, by by-law, without the consent of the owner-electors, acquire the
waterworks or sewerage-works, or both, specified in the said
subsection by lease under such terms and conditions, including an
option to purchase, as may be mutually agreed upon between the parties
to the lease agreement, and for the purposes of Division (4) of Part
XIII and Division (2) of Part XIV of the
Municipal Act
the village is deemed to be the owner of the works during the term of
the lease.
1965-30-2; 1966-34-2; 1968-35-3.
Duncan and North Cowichan
Quashing period
85
Section 238 of the
Municipal Act
does not apply to By-law No. 820 of The Corporation of the City of
Duncan, cited as "Hospital Construction Loan By-law 1965, No. 820" nor
to By-law No. 1031 of The Corporation of the District of North
Cowichan, cited as "District of North Cowichan Hospital Construction
Loan By-law, 1965."
1965-30-2.
Transition
86
To remove any doubt or uncertainty any area declared a planning area
by the Minister pursuant to the
Town Planning Act
, being chapter 339 of the
Revised Statutes of British Columbia, 1948
, is deemed to be an area declared a planning area by the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council pursuant to section 720 of the
Municipal Act
as and from the date the area was declared a planning area by the
Minister under the
Town Planning Act
, and the constituted Regional Planning Board is deemed to have been
established on such date by Order of the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council pursuant to subsection (3) of the said section 720.
1965-30-2.
Aennofield
Validation of ballot
87
Notwithstanding that "The Village of Aennofield Water Works System
Establishment and Financing By-law No. 45, 1965," and "The Village of
Aennofield Sewerage System Establishment and Financing By-law No. 46,
1965," were submitted to the electors on one ballot, the assent of the
owner-electors to the by-law is deemed to have been validly obtained.
1966-34-2.
Gold River
Current borrowing power
88
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 247 and in addition to the
powers under section 264 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of the District of Gold River may, without the assent of
the owner-electors, by by-law approved by the Inspector of
Municipalities, provide for the borrowing of such sums of money as may
be requisite to meet the current expenditures of the municipality.
(2)
This section applies only until the assessed values of land and
improvements within the District of Gold River that may be taxed for
general purposes under clause (a) of subsection (1) of section 206 of
the
Municipal Act
exceeds ten million dollars.
1966-34-2.
Invermere
Validation of election
89
Notwithstanding the failure to comply with statutory dates for the
election of members of the Council of The Corporation of the Village
of Invermere in the year 1965, the election so held is valid, as if
the statutory dates had been complied with.
1966-34-2.
Masset
Validation of election
90
Notwithstanding the failure to comply with statutory dates for the
election of members of the Council of the Village of Masset in the
year 1965, the election so held is valid, as if the statutory dates
had been complied with.
1966-34-2.
By-laws
90A
Notwithstanding the non-conformity with statutory dates, the "Village
of Masset Annual Budget By-law No. 49, 1966," and the "Village of
Masset Tax Rate By-law No. 50, 1966," are declared valid.
1967-30-2.
Port Alice
Provision for first election
91
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or of the Letters Patent incorporating the District of Port Alice, the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council by supplementary Letters Patent may
make provisions for the election of members of the Council of the
District of Port Alice other than those provided in the Letters
Patent.
1966-34-2.
Revelstoke
Validation of agreement
92
Notwithstanding any provision of section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement entered into on the twenty-ninth day of May, 1964,
between Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and The Corporation of the
City of Revelstoke for the purchase by the city from the bank of all
and singular that certain parcel or tract of land and premises
situate, lying, and being in the City of Revelstoke and Province of
British Columbia, and more particularly known and described as Lots 15
and 16 in Block 24, Revelstoke City, Plan 636, save and except that
part of Lot 16 which lies to the north and east of a line parallel to
and five feet perpendicularly distant from the north-easterly boundary
of the said lot, is valid.
1966-34-2.
Williams Lake
Power to acquire land for development
93
With the approval of the Minister, the Council of the Town of Williams
Lake may exercise the powers of a city municipality under the
provisions of clause (a) of subsection (2) of section 465 of the
Municipal Act
with respect to any property situate within the corporate limits of
the municipality and owned by the Pacific Great Eastern Railway
Company.
1966-34-2.
Regional District of the Capital of British Columbia
Waterworks and regional park
94
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of section 6 of the
Regional Parks Act
and section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, or any other provision of those Acts or in the Letters Patent
incorporating the Regional District of the Capital of British
Columbia, the Regional Board of the said district may
(a)
enter into an agreement with The Corporation of the City of Victoria
for the acquisition by the Regional Board of the whole or any part of
the real property appertaining or belonging to the Corporation's
waterworks situate in the Municipality of the District of Saanich and
commonly known as the "Elk Lake Reservoir and Watershed Property,"
whereunder payment by the regional district is to be made during a
period not in excess of ten years;
(b)
lease or enter into agreements with The Corporation of the District of
Saanich for the management, maintenance, improvement, operation,
control, or use, as and for a regional park, of the whole or any part
of the real property acquired or agreed to be acquired as aforesaid by
the Regional Board.
1967-30-2.
Registration of title
94A
Notwithstanding the
Land Titles Act
, the lands and premises of The Corporation of the City of Victoria
agreed to be conveyed by the said Corporation to the Regional District
of the Capital of British Columbia by agreement dated the
twenty-eighth day of June, 1967, namely, the lands and premises
registered in the land titles office in the City of Victoria and
described in the certificates of title listed in Schedule 1 to this
section, except those parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
section, shall be deemed to be registered lands and premises of the
said Regional District of the Capital of British Columbia, and the
Registrar shall accordingly make all necessary amendments to the
register and such amendments constitute registration under the
Land Titles Act
in favour of the Regional District of the Capital of British Columbia.
Schedule 1
1084i I.F.B. 1.301
3801a A.F.B. 7.527
9504a A.F.B. 11.265
5049c A.F.B. 19.226
142c A.F.B. 17.193
2761i I.F.B. 3.479
4472c A.F.B. 19.52
276c A.F.B. 17.65
2419a A.F.B. 5.822
3122a A.F.B. 6.539
4272a A.F.B. 7.555
2449a A.F.B. 6.11
1422c A.F.B. 17.779
273c A.F.B. 17.49
6819c A.F.B. 20.210
4216a A.F.B. 7.529
3790a A.F.B. 7.525
18697c A.F.B. 25.428
1436c A.F.B. 17.727
30c A.F.B. 16.879
4809c A.F.B. 19.153
3802a A.F.B. 7.527
18892a A.F.B. 16.811
10062c A.F.B. 22.47
3803a A.F.B. 7.529
39305i 39306i
39309i 39310i
4237c A.F.B. 19.61
39307i 39308i
39311i 39312i
2740a A.F.B. 6.245
Schedule 2
Those parts of Sections Forty-three (43), Forty-seven (47),
Forty-eight (48), and One hundred and ten (110), Lake District,
B.C., lying easterly of the boundaries described as commencing
at the intersection of the northerly boundary of said Section
Forty-three (43) and the westerly boundary of Plan 43RW, thence
southerly along the said westerly boundary of Plan 43RW to an
intersection with the westerly boundary of Plan 771RW, thence
southerly along the said westerly boundary of Plan 771RW to an
intersection with the westerly boundary of said Plan 43RW,
thence southerly along the said westerly boundary of Plan 43RW
to the south-easterly boundary of the lands as shown coloured
red on plan exhibited in Absolute Fees Parcels Book, Volume 8,
Folio 653, No. 276c.
1968-35-2; 1978-25-332,334.
Fort St. James
Ratification of agreement
95
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement dated the 13th day of February, 1967, entered into
between Fort St. James Homesites Ltd., Emerson Donald Vinnedge, and
The Corporation of the Village of Fort St. James, is declared valid
and binding on the parties thereto upon the adoption of a by-law by
the Council of the Village ratifying the said agreement.
1967-30-2.
Nelson
Waterworks extension
96
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of section 283 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the City of Nelson may expend
surplus funds in the amount of two hundred thousand dollars, borrowed
pursuant to its "Waterworks Extension By-law No. 1315, of 1961," by
transferring
(a)
the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the credit of
"City of Nelson Improvements Loan By-law No. 1316 of 1961"; and
(b)
the remaining balance of fifty thousand dollars to the credit of "City
of Nelson Sanitary Sewer Extensions Loan By-law No. 1317 of 1961."
1967-30-2.
Port Hardy
Vehicle licences
97
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 458c of the
Municipal Act
, the District of Port Hardy Commercial Vehicle Licensing By-law,
1967, No. 9, is deemed to have been adopted on or before the 30th day
of September, 1966, and all licences issued and fees charged
thereunder for the licence-year 1967 are deemed to be valid.
1967-30-2.
Prince Rupert
Supplementary Letters Patent
98
The supplementary Letters Patent of the City of Prince Rupert, issued
the 8th day of March, 1967, pursuant to Order in Council 740/67, are
confirmed and validated.
1967-30-2.
Prince George
Charges
99
(1)
For the purpose of recovering the costs of the installation of
municipal services, pursuant to the City of Prince George By-laws
1671, 1708, 1743, and 1774, the Council of the City of Prince George
may impose a charge on each of the parcels of land described in the
Schedule attached hereto of the amount indicated for each parcel on
the Schedule.
(2)
The said amounts are payable in equal annual instalments of principal
and interest in each of the years 1967 to 1976, inclusive, and each
annual instalment is deemed to be a charge for the purposes of section
377 of the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
Notwithstanding subsection (2), the owner of any said parcel may
commute the annual instalments by the payment of any outstanding
amount.
Schedule
All lots, being Cariboo District Plan 15185, with charges as
follows:—
Lot No. 5, $2,450; Lot No. 31, $3,050; Lot No. 37, $2,600; Lot
No. 38, $2,600; Lot No. 48, $2,850; Lot No. 49, $2,450; Lot No.
50, $2,450; Lot No. 51, $2,450; Lot No. 57, $2,750; Lot No. 79,
$2,550; Lot No. 80, $2,300; Lot No. 81, $2,150; Lot No. 97,
$2,800; Lot No. 165, $2,600; Lot No. 210, $2,550: Lot No. 236,
$2,200; Lot No. 258, $2,150; Lot No. 259, $2,250; Lot No. 263,
$2,450; Lot No. 300, $2,750; Lot No. 332, $2,550; Lot No. 333,
$2,550; Lot No. 334, $2,550; Lot No. 338, $2,600; Lot No. 375,
$2,450; Lot No. 393, $2,450; Lot No. 394, $2,450; Lot No. 457,
$2,550; Lot No. 469, $2,300; Lot No. 475, $2,300; Lot No. 476,
$2,300; Lot No. 492, $2,750; Lot No. 500, $2,650; Lot No. 513,
$2,700; Lot No. 514, $2,550; Lot No. 531, $2,700; Lot No. 352,
$2,450; Lot No. 353, $2,450.
1967-30-2.
Richmond
Financing of trunk sewers
100
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the Township of Richmond (herein
referred to as the "Corporation") may adopt, without the assent of the
owner-electors, by-laws
(a)
for the purpose of having constructed a system of trunk sewerage works
for the collection, conveyance, and disposal of sewage, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forcemain sewers and
their pump-houses and such ancillary drainage-works for the
impounding, conveying, and discharging of surface and other waters, as
are necessary for the proper laying out and construction of the said
system of sewerage-works; and the total amount to be raised annually
for the retirement of debt, including principal and interest, incurred
for such works shall be levied and raised by a mill rate on the
taxable assessed values for general purposes of land only of all real
property within the area to be benefited as defined by the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, that is to say
(i)
the area encompassing those portions of sewerage sub-areas and local
pump areas contained in the Lulu Island West Sewerage Area of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District as shown on the
current plan of the Lulu Island West Sewerage Area,
(ii)
the area encompassing Sea, Mitchell, Twigg and Eburne Islands, which
is that part of the Municipality of Richmond contained in the
Vancouver Sewerage Area of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage
District as shown on the current plan of the Vancouver Sewerage Area,
and
(iii)
that part of the Municipality of Richmond contained in the Fraser
Sewerage Area of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District
as shown on the current plan of the Fraser Sewerage Area;
as deposited from time to time in the land title office pursuant to
the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
;
(b)
for the purpose of constructing systems of lateral sewerage works for
the collection, conveyance, and disposal of sewage, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, such maintenance holes and
connecting drains as it deems necessary, and the total amount to be
raised annually for the retirement of debt, including principal and
interest, incurred for such works may be levied and raised by a mill
rate on the taxable assessed values for general purposes of land and
improvements of all real property within the area to be benefited as
described in clause (a);
and the amount required for the construction, operation and
maintenance of those works referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) may
be raised by the imposition of rates and charges pursuant to section
612 of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, and the rates and charges may be different for each
area referred to in paragraph (a) (i), (ii) or (iii).
(2)
Section 330 of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, applies with respect to the construction of sewers
and sewerage works by the Corporation or by the Greater Vancouver
Sewerage and Drainage District pursuant to subsection (3) of section 7
of the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
, pursuant to this section as if a certificate of self-liquidation had
been granted for the sewerage facilities pursuant to the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
Notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) of subsection (1), land classified
as "Agricultural District" by section 5 of the Corporation's Zoning
By-law No. 1430 and the zoning map appurtenant thereto as from time to
time amended, repealed, or re-enacted, save and except any land which
has been permitted a change of use by a land use contract entered into
under section 702A of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, before the repeal of that section was effective, is
exempt from any mill rate levied pursuant to those clauses.
(4)
On, from, and after the first day of January in the year following the
adoption of a by-law under subsection (1), the sewerage works referred
to in the Corporation's By-law No. 1735 of Local Improvement District
No. 144, as amended by By-law No. 1809 and By-law No. 1737, shall be
deemed to have been constructed pursuant to clause (b) of subsection
(1), and thereafter no levies or charges shall be imposed, raised, or
levied under the terms of those by-laws.
1971-40-1; 1980-39-2; 2023-10-688.
Utilities
100A
(1)
Subject to subsection (2) where, in the opinion of the Council of the
Township of Richmond (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), it is not
possible or desirable to install public utilities in, on, or over
streets or lanes, the Council may from time to time, for the purpose
of providing such public utilities,
(a)
determine and define the location and extent of
(i)
the land within the municipality on, over, or under which the
utilities shall pass; and
(ii)
what other land within the municipality shall be required for access
to and from the aforesaid lands to adequately construct, repair, and
maintain the utilities; and
(b)
prepare or cause to be prepared a plan or plans showing to the
satisfaction of the Registrar of the New Westminster Land Titles
District the location and extent of the lands so determined and
defined by the Council and whether the said lands will be used for the
utilities or only for access thereto and therefrom.
(2)
This section applies only where the land on, over, or under which the
utilities shall pass is capable of being directly connected to the
utility works to be installed on, over, or under that land.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in subclause (i) of clause (a) of
subsection (1), the Council of the Corporation shall not include any
land on, over, or under which utilities are to pass where such land is
more than 3 m from the nearest registered property line, measured at
right angles to such line, without first having applied to the Zoning
Board of Appeal established pursuant to section 708 of the
Municipal Act
for an adjudication as to the necessity of the Corporation determining
and defining such land pursuant to this section, and whether or not
such determination causes undue hardship to the owner concerned. Where
the Board is satisfied that the proposed easement is necessary and no
undue hardship will be caused it shall so certify. The Zoning Board of
Appeal is empowered to so adjudicate and an appeal lies to a Judge of
the County Court from the decision of the Board.
(4)
Before adjudicating on the merits of the Corporation's application,
the Zoning Board of Appeal shall first have satisfied itself that the
Corporation has caused written notice of the time, place, and nature
of the proposed adjudication to be served upon the persons who are
owners of the lands affected (as defined in the
Municipal Act
), and service of such notice shall be deemed sufficient if sent at
least two weeks before the adjudication by registered mail to such
persons in accordance with section 401 of the
Municipal Act
.
(5)
The costs and incidental expenses of causing written notice to be
given pursuant to subsection (4) shall be borne by the Corporation.
(6)
The plan or plans shall be
(a)
certified by the Reeve and Clerk of the Corporation as having been
made pursuant to and in accordance with a determination and definition
of the Council under this section; and
(b)
certified by the Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeal where an
adjudication made pursuant to subsection (2) has upheld in whole or in
part the Corporation's application, and that no undue hardship is
caused thereby,
and upon deposit of the plan or plans in the land titles office for
the New Westminster Land Titles District, the Corporation shall in
respect to the lands shown on the plan be entitled to,
(c)
in the case of land to be used for the utilities, the rights set forth
in Part I of the Schedule hereto; and
(d)
in the case of land required for access to and from the utilities, the
rights set forth in Part II of the Schedule hereto,
as if the said rights had been granted to the Corporation by the owner
or owners of the said lands and by all interests save and except the
Crown and upon compliance with the provisions of the
Land Titles Act
the Registrar of the said land titles district shall register the said
rights against the said lands as a charge by way of right-of-way
without any further grant or instrument or the production of the
duplicate certificate of title to the said lands.
(7)
The determination and definition of any lands by the Council as
aforesaid shall be conclusive and binding on all persons except the
Crown owning or having an interest in the lands and upon registration
of the said rights the same shall take priority over all other
interest and charges registered against the lands except those
registered in the Crown.
(8)
For the purpose of this section, the words "public utility" and
"utility," or the plural thereof, includes, without limiting the
generality thereof, sewers and sewerage.
(9)
Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to limit the right of the
Corporation, pursuant to the expropriation provisions of the
Municipal Act
, to acquire any interest in land which it otherwise would have had
the right to acquire were it not for the enactment of this section.
(10)
The Corporation shall not be required to make or pay any compensation
for or in respect to the rights acquired under this section or
anything done thereunder except the actual cost of repairing,
replacing, or relocating any fence, building, shrub, garden plant, or
other improvement which may be damaged, destroyed, or moved by the
Corporation in the exercise of any rights acquired by it under this
section.
(11)
The owner or owners of the lands, on, over, or under which the
Corporation shall have acquired any rights under this section shall
not do or permit to be done on the said lands any of the acts, deeds,
or things set forth in Part III of the Schedule hereto, and the
Corporation shall observe and perform and shall cause to be observed
and performed the conditions, stipulations, and things set forth in
Part IV of the Schedule hereto.
(12)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may by Order in Council make rules
and regulations not inconsistent with this section in respect to the
aforesaid plan or plans and other matters contained in subsections
(1), (10), and (11).
Schedule
Part I.— Rights on, over, or under Lands to Be Used for the
Utilities
For the Corporation by its servants, agents, licensees, and
workers to enter and re-enter upon the said lands and to cut
down, trim, and remove trees, shrubs, plants, fences, buildings,
and other improvements and things growing, placed, constructed,
or otherwise upon the said lands and to construct, repair,
replace, maintain, and keep up sewers, drains, water and gas
mains, electric, communication, and telephone lines, and other
public utilities, and all works and things required in
connection therewith.
Part II.— Rights on, over, or under Lands Required for Access
to the Utilities
For the Corporation by its servants, agents, licensees, or
workers to enter and re-enter and pass and repass on and over
the said lands with or without vehicles, machinery, instruments,
and tools for the purpose of exercising the rights set forth in
Part I of this Schedule.
Part III.— Acts Not to Be Done by the Owners
The owners shall not build, erect, or place upon the said lands
anything that will interfere with the rights of the Corporation
on, over, or under the said lands, or any works, vehicles,
equipment, instruments, tools, or utilities taken, placed, left,
or constructed upon the said lands.
Part IV.— Conditions and Stipulations to Be Performed and
Observed by the Corporation
The Corporation shall not unnecessarily damage, remove, or
destroy any tree, shrub, plant, fence, building, improvement, or
other thing upon the said lands, and will erect and maintain
proper safeguards about its works and will remove all rubbish
and debris from the said lands as soon as possible.
1967-30-2; 1977-53-1; 1978-25-332 to 334; 2023-10-689.
Sparwood
Letters Patent
101
The Letters Patent of the District of Sparwood issued the 12th day of
May, 1966, pursuant to Order in Council 1439/66 and the supplementary
Letters Patent issued the 6th day of October, 1966, pursuant to Order
in Council 2964/66, are confirmed and validated.
1967-30-2.
Qualification for office
101A
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, a person who owned real property which has been acquired from the
person by the Regional District of East Kootenay for purposes of the
urban renewal scheme pursuant to the Agreement dated the twenty-sixth
day of April, 1967, between Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation
and the regional district, is qualified to be nominated, elected, and
to hold office as a member of the Council of the District of Sparwood
so long as that person remains in occupation of the property so
acquired, provided that that person is otherwise qualified.
1968-35-2; 2023-10-690.
Vanderhoof
Statutory dates
102
Notwithstanding the non-conformity with statutory dates, "The
Vanderhoof Budget By-law No. 263, 1966" is declared valid.
1967-30-2.
Water Districts
Fluoridation
103
(1)
For the purposes of this section, "water district" means any of the
corporations of the Greater Vancouver Water District, the Greater
Victoria Water District, the Greater Nanaimo Water District, the
Greater Campbell River Water District, constituted respectively under
the Statutes of the Province and any regional district empowered
pursuant to the
Municipal Act
to supply water in bulk to its member municipalities.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or this or any other Act, but not in any way limiting the powers
granted under any such Act, a water district may undertake the
fluoridation of its water supply subject to the conditions herein
contained.
(3)
A water district shall not fluoridate its water supply unless and
until
(a)
the Board of the water district has determined by resolution that the
following question shall be submitted to the electors of all its
member municipalities together with the electors, within the meaning
of the
Public Schools Act
, of areas in unorganized territory required by law or contract to be
directly furnished with a supply of water by the water district:
"Are you in favour of the fluoridation of the water supply of
the
[insert name of water district]
?";
(b)
the total number of votes cast in favour of the question in all member
municipalities and areas referred to in clause (a) combined is equal
to three-fifths of the total number of votes cast by valid ballot; and
(c)
the Board of the water district has finally passed or adopted a by-law
authorizing the fluoridation of the water supply of the water
district.
(4)
Where the Board of the water district has determined that the question
should be submitted to the electors under clause (a) of subsection
(3):—
(a)
The Secretary of the water district shall forthwith transmit a
certified copy of the resolution comprising such determination to the
Clerk of each of the member municipalities of the water district; and
in the case where the water district directly furnishes water to an
area in unorganized territory as aforesaid, to the Secretary-Treasurer
of the school district in which such area lies:
(b)
The Clerk, or the Secretary-Treasurer of the school district, as the
case may be, shall forthwith report the terms of the resolution to the
Council or the Board of School Trustees, as the case may be:
(c)
The Council or the Board of School Trustees, as the case may be, shall
provide and arrange for the submission of the question at the next
general election in the year in which all member municipalities are
required to hold general elections, provided, however, with the
concurrence of all member municipalities the said question may be
submitted at any time:
(d)
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the
Vancouver Charter
, or the
Public Schools Act
, as the case may be, with respect to submissions of questions to the
electors, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the submission of the
question:
(e)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any Act, no Returning Officer or
other person shall proclaim or publicly or otherwise declare or
divulge the result of the submission of the question until the
Returning Officer or other person has been advised by the Secretary of
the water district that voting has been completed in all member
municipalities and in all areas aforesaid.
1967-30-2; 2023-10-691.
Service beyond boundaries
103A
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or the
Water Act
, the Campbell River Fire Protection District is empowered to enter
into agreements, with the approval of the Inspector of Municipalities,
to provide fire-protection services to properties situate outside the
boundaries of the district.
1968-35-2.
Parks
104
Notwithstanding section 112 (1) of the
Land Registry Act
, those certain pieces or tracts of land more particularly hereinafter
described and numbered (i) to (viii) respectively, and which are shown
as parks on subdivision plans deposited in the Land Registry Office in
the City of Vancouver, are hereby freed and discharged of and from any
easement or the right of any person to keep open, use, or enjoy the
same; and the Registrar of Titles may, upon the production of a copy
of this Act and upon compliance with the
Land Registry Act
, issue to the City of Vancouver certificates of indefeasible title to
the said lands free from the purpose or object indicated or to be
inferred from the words and markings on the plans, but subject to the
exceptions and reservations contained in the original grant from the
Crown and subject to the rights (if any) that any abutting owner may
have to the coal, petroleum, fireclay, and natural gas, by virtue of
section 112 (2) of the
Land Registry Act
:—
(a)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8393, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated at the intersection of
Balmoral Street and Argyle Drive, adjacent to Lots 3 to 7, Block 2,
District Lot 735 (Fraserview):
(b)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8393, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated at the south side of Argyle
Drive, west of Victoria Drive, adjacent to Lot 1, Block 3, District
Lots 728 and 735 and Lots 9 to 13, Block 3, District Lot 728 (all in
Fraserview):
(c)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8393, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated at the intersection of
Argyle Drive and Nassau Drive, adjacent to Parcel A, Block 3, District
Lot 728 (Fraserview), according to Explanatory Plan 5085 deposited:
(d)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8393, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated at the intersection of 57th
Avenue and Argyle Drive, adjacent to Lots 10 and 11, Block 4, District
Lot 728 (Fraserview):
(e)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8363, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated at the intersection of 63rd
Avenue and Jasper Crescent, adjacent to Lot 13, Block 17, District Lot
328 (Fraserview):
(f)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8574, situated at the intersection of
Victoria Drive and Harrison Drive, adjacent to Lots 1 to 3, Block 23,
District Lot 328 (Fraserview):
(g)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8574, deposited in the Land Registry
Office in the City of Vancouver, situated on the south side of
Ancaster Crescent, east of Fraserview Drive, adjacent to Lot 16, Block
32, District Lots 258 and 332 and Lot 17, Block 32, District Lot 323
(all in Fraserview):
(h)
A park deemed dedicated by Plan 8574, situated on the north side of
Ancaster Crescent, east of Fraserview Drive, adjacent to Lots 1 to 6,
Block 35, District Lot 332 (Fraserview).
1967-30-2.
Repealed
105
[Repealed 1994-52-118.]
City of Vancouver
Removal of restriction
106
The City of Vancouver may convey or surrender to the Crown in right of
the Province, free of any trust attaching thereto, the lands
comprising Blocks A and B of Lot 90, Hastings Townsite, Suburban Lands
in the District of New Westminster, which comprise 0.517 acre and are
shown on Plan 15, Tube 835, on file in the Ministry of Lands, Parks
and Housing; and on their being so conveyed or surrendered the said
lands shall vest in the Crown, and the Crown may dispose thereof free
and discharged from any trust or other obligation, and the Registrar
of Titles shall, upon production of a copy of this Act and compliance
with the
Land Titles Act
, amend the Registrar's registers and records accordingly.
1968-35-2; 1977-75-64; 1978-25-332; 1979-20-14; 2023-10-692.
Central Kootenay
Letters Patent
107
The supplementary Letters Patent of the Regional District of Central
Kootenay, issued the eighth day of March, 1968, pursuant to Order in
Council No. 751/68, are hereby confirmed and validated, and are deemed
to have come into force and effect on the thirteenth day of June,
1966.
1968-35-2.
Budget
108
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 782 of the
Municipal Act
, the apportionment of costs to the member municipalities provided for
and contained in the budget by-law of the Regional District of Central
Kootenay registered with the Inspector of Municipalities on the
twenty-ninth day of February, 1968, with such modifications as may be
made by the application of any surplus or deficit of the previous year
for any particular function, is declared valid and binding for the
purposes of section 784 of the said Act for the amounts to be
requisitioned from the member municipalities in and for the year 1968.
1968-35-2.
Comox-Strathcona
Supplementary Letters Patent
109
The supplementary Letters Patent of the Regional District of Comox
Valley (now known as the "Regional District of Comox-Strathcona")
issued the twenty-eighth day of June, 1967, pursuant to Order in
Council No. 2113/67, are confirmed and validated as and from that
date.
1968-35-2.
East Kootenay
Effective date
110
The supplementary Letters Patent issued the thirtieth day of January,
1968, pursuant to Order in Council No. 293/68, are deemed to have been
effective on and from the first day of January, 1968.
1968-35-2.
Fraser-Burrard
Financing
111
(1)
For the purposes of this section, "district" means the Greater
Vancouver Water District or the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and
Drainage District.
(2)
The Regional District of Fraser-Burrard may finance, at the request
and sole cost of a district, any undertaking or purpose for which the
Administration Board of the district has adopted a borrowing by-law in
accordance with the provisions of the Statute under which it is
constituted.
(3)
Subsections (2) and (3) of section 787 of the
Municipal Act
apply as if the district were a member municipality.
1968-35-2.
Gibsons
Change of name
112
With effect from the date this Act comes into force and effect, "The
Corporation of the Village of Gibsons Landing" shall be called and
known by the name and style of the "Village of Gibsons" and the
Letters Patent of the village are deemed to have been amended
accordingly.
1968-35-2.
Greater Nanaimo Sewerage and Drainage District
Membership
113
(1)
For the purposes of this section, this Act and any regulation passed
under this Act shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be read
in conjunction with and be considered an extension of the
Greater Nanaimo Sewerage and Drainage Act
.
(2)
The North Wellington Waterworks District is a member of the Greater
Nanaimo Sewerage and Drainage District and is deemed to have been a
member on and from the first day of January, 1967.
1968-35-2.
Midway
Vehicle licences
114
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 458c of the
Municipal Act
, By-law No. 3 of the Village of Midway, cited as "Commercial Vehicle
Licensing By-law No. 3," is deemed to have been adopted on or before
the thirtieth day of September, 1967, and all licences issued and fees
charged thereunder are deemed to be valid.
1968-35-2.
Okanagan-Similkameen
Supplementary Letters Patent
115
The supplementary Letters Patent of the Regional District of
Okanagan-Similkameen issued the second day of May, 1967, pursuant to
Order in Council No. 1454/67, are confirmed and validated as and from
that date.
1968-35-2.
Payment for services
116
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
or of the Letters Patent or supplementary Letters Patent of the
Regional District of Okanagan-Similkameen, the expenditure of the sum
of four thousand one hundred and seventy-one dollars and forty cents
for professional services rendered by Alan W. Gray, architect, is
deemed to have been valid and within the powers of the regional
district, and the said amount shall be apportioned between Electoral
Area A and The Corporation of the Village of Osoyoos on the basis of
assessment as fixed for taxation for school purposes for the year 1968
(excluding property taxable for school purposes only by special Act).
1968-35-2.
Peace River
Election
117
Notwithstanding failure to comply with statutory dates, the nomination
and election of the Director for Electoral Area A of the Peace River
Regional District in the year 1967 is valid, and the Director is
deemed to have held office on and from the date of the Director's
swearing in.
1968-35-2; 2023-10-693.
South Fort George
Incorporation date
118
For the purposes of assessment and taxation of real property, the
Village of South Fort George is deemed to have been incorporated on
and from the thirty-first day of December, 1967.
1968-35-2.
Thompson-Nicola
Meeting of Board
119
The meeting of the Regional Board of the Regional District of
Thompson-Nicola held on the twenty-fourth day of November, 1967, is
deemed to have been a legally constituted meeting of the Board
notwithstanding that the Letters Patent incorporating the regional
district were not issued until the twenty-eighth day of November,
1967.
1968-35-2.
New Westminster
By-law
120
By-law No. 4287 of the Corporation of the City of New Westminster,
cited as "Justice Building Construction By-law, 1968," as passed third
reading the eleventh day of March, 1968, is declared to be within the
powers of Council of the city and if adopted shall not be amended or
repealed except with the approval of the Minister.
1968-35-2.
View Royal Fire Protection District
Sewer study
121
Notwithstanding any provision of the Letters Patent incorporating the
View Royal Fire Protection District, the Trustees of the district are
empowered to expend a sum not exceeding three thousand dollars for the
purposes of a preliminary sewerage study for the district. The amount
required for such expenditure may be advanced from the Consolidated
Revenue Fund as if it were a requisition in the year 1968 for the
provision of fire protection and recovered by taxation in the year
1969 in accordance with the provisions of the
Water Act
.
1968-35-2.
Columbia-Shuswap
Supplementary Letters Patent
122
Notwithstanding any provision of section 766 of the
Municipal Act
, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of
the Minister, by supplementary Letters Patent amend section 3 of the
supplementary Letters Patent issued in respect of the Regional
District of Columbia-Shuswap the thirteenth day of June, 1966,
pursuant to Order in Council No. 1775/66, to provide that a defined
area or areas in Electoral Area A shall share the cost of the function
with the Village of Golden.
1968-35-2.
Greater Vancouver Water District
Agreement with City of Vancouver
123
(1)
For the purposes of this section, this Act and any regulation passed
under this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, shall be read
in conjunction with and considered an extension of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
or the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, the proposed Agreement between the City of Vancouver and the Greater
Vancouver Water District, which has been executed by the city and
which, on the 13th day of October, 1967, the Board of the water
district resolved to execute, is, on its execution by the Greater
Vancouver Water District, valid and binding on the city and the water
district, and the said parties to the Agreement may carry out and give
full force and effect to every covenant agreement, stipulation, and
provision of the Agreement according to the terms thereof.
1968-35-2.
Regional Districts
Repealed
124
[Repealed 1993-54-85.]
Validation budget and rates by-laws
125
Notwithstanding that the provisions of the
Municipal Act
were not complied with, the following by-laws are declared valid and
effectual from the respective dates of adoption: The Corporation of
the Village of Hazelton cited as "Tax Rates By-law No. 71, 1968"; The
Corporation of the Village of Hazelton cited as "Annual Budget By-law,
1968"; District of Hudson's Hope cited as "Annual Budget By-law No.
70, 1968"; District of Hudson's Hope cited as "Rates By-law No. 71,
1968"; District of Mackenzie cited as "Annual Budget By-law, 1968";
District of Mackenzie cited as "Rates By-law, 1961."
1969-23-2.
Letters Patent
126
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the following Letters Patent or supplementary Letters Patent and the
Orders in Council authorizing their issue are confirmed and validated
as from the respective dates of issue:—
Letters Patent —
Date of
Issue
Order in
Council
District of Houston ..........
January 31, 1969 ........
279/69
City of Kimberley............
October 29, 1968........
3364/68
District of Stewart...................
June 27, 1968..............
2044/68
Supplementary Letters Patent —
Date of
Issue
Order in
Council
Regional District of Central Kootenay ...................
December 3, 1968......
3828/68
Regional District of East Kootenay ........................
November 6, 1968......
3467/68
Regional District of East Kootenay ........................
January 21, 1969.........
153/69
District of Gold River .............
November 20, 1968....
3607/68
Greater Vancouver Regional District.....................
July 30, 1968..............
2429/68
1969-23-2.
By-law funds
127
(1)
Notwithstanding section 283 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council may, by by-law, with the approval of the Inspector of
Municipalities, place any unexpended balance of moneys borrowed for
hospital purposes in any fund established under Part VII of the
Municipal Act
.
(2)
The Council may, by by-law, with the approval of the Inspector of
Municipalities, place moneys received from a regional hospital
district for repayment of grants made by the municipality for hospital
purposes, other than from funds raised by the borrowing of money, in
any fund established under Part VII of the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
Where moneys are expended from a reserve fund established pursuant to
subsection (1) or (2), the Council may, by by-law, provide that such
moneys be repaid with or without interest to the fund in accordance
with the terms set out in the by-law.
1969-23-2.
Tax penalty date
128
Where a penalty date established by by-law under section 384 of the
Municipal Act
fell within the period of the postal strike in 1968, or where it was
anticipated that the penalty date would fall within such period, any
action taken by a Council to advance the penalty date to a later date
shall be deemed to be a valid amendment of the by-law for the year
1968 only.
1969-23-2.
Repealed
129
[Repealed 1993-54-85.]
Borrowing By-laws
Transitional
130
(1)
Notwithstanding the repeal of section 279 of the
Municipal Act
by section 85 of the
Municipal (Amendment) Act, 1968
, the provisions of section 279 of the
Municipal Act
remain in force and effect with respect to any by-law authorizing the
borrowing of money which was adopted prior to the coming into force
and effect of section 85.
(2)
Notwithstanding section 264a of the
Municipal Act
, a borrowing by-law, adopted under section 257a of the
Municipal Act
prior to the repeal of that section by the
Municipal (Amendment) Act, 1968
, that provides for the issuance of two or more separate series of
debentures and has no provision for a specified rate of interest is
deemed to be a loan authorization by-law adopted under section 248 of
the Act in accordance with the formalities and restrictions contained
in the Act and may be included in a security-issuing by-law under
section 251 of the Act for any portion of the borrowing authorized
under the by-law for which no debentures have been issued.
1969-23-2.
Regional Districts
Transfer of Regional Planning Boards
131
(1)
Where a Regional Planning Board was established under section 720 of
the
Municipal Act
, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by supplementary Letters
Patent, declare the provisions of sections 795 to 798d of the
Municipal Act
to apply to the regional districts within the regional planning area,
and the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of section 766 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply.
(2)
This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give force and
effect to the provisions on and from the first day of December, 1968.
1969-23-2.
Repealed
132
[Repealed 1970-34-2.]
Coquitlam
Utilities
133
The provisions of section 10d apply to The Corporation of the District
of Coquitlam.
1969-23-2.
Duncan and New Westminster
Sidewalk canopies
134
The provisions of section 75b apply to The Corporation of the City of
New Westminster and The Corporation of the City of Duncan.
1969-23-2.
Fraser Mills-Coquitlam
Provision for amalgamation
135
(1)
The Councils of The Corporation of the District of Coquitlam and The
Corporation of the District of Fraser Mills shall jointly cause a
study to be made of the effect on the respective municipalities, and
on specific groups within the municipalities, of a proposed
amalgamation of the two municipalities.
(2)
Upon receiving the information resulting from the study, the Councils
shall negotiate the terms and conditions of the proposed amalgamation.
(3)
On or before the thirtieth day of September, 1969, the Councils shall
report to the Minister the result of the negotiations and terms and
conditions upon which they have agreed.
(4)
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, if the two Councils request an amalgamation of the
two municipalities in accordance with the terms and conditions
referred to in subsection (3), upon the recommendation of the
Minister, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may accept the surrender
of the Letters Patent of the two municipalities and may issue Letters
Patent incorporating the new municipality and may include in the
Letters Patent the terms and conditions agreed to by the two Councils
and may include directions on any of the matters referred to in
section 12 of the
Municipal Act
and such other provisions as the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may
deem proper or necessary.
1969-23-2.
Kamloops
Agreement
136
(1)
The Agreement dated the eighth day of September, 1968, between the
Council of the Kamloops Band of Indians of the Kamloops Indian Reserve
No. 1 and the Council of the City of Kamloops, whereby it was agreed
that a portion of the Kamloops Indian Reserve No. 1 will be
incorporated within the boundaries of the City of Kamloops, is
declared to be valid and within the powers of the Council of the city;
and in the event that the boundaries of the city are so extended, the
Council of the city shall have all the powers necessary to fulfil its
obligations under the Agreement.
(2)
In the event that the Lieutenant-Governor in Council receives a
petition pursuant to paragraph 5 of the said Agreement, the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, issue supplementary Letters Patent excluding the portion of
the Indian reserve from the municipality.
1969-23-2.
Nanaimo
Lease
137
(1)
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions contained in a deed of land
registered in the Land Titles Office at Victoria, in British Columbia,
under D.D. 14817n, or any provision of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, or any rule of law or equity to the contrary, the
Council of The Corporation of the City of Nanaimo may, by by-law, and
with the assent of the owner-electors of the City of Nanaimo, demise
and lease to the Nanaimo Curling Club a portion, to be described in
the by-law, of the following real property: That part of Section One
(1), Nanaimo District, lying south and east of the Millstone River,
north of the Comox Road, and west of the right-of-way of the Esquimalt
and Nanaimo Railway, and of parcel registered under No. 16813c; except
Parcel X (D.D. 661n) of said section, containing five (5) acres, more
or less, and except Machleary Street and Weakesiah Avenue. The land
hereby registered, including said street and avenue, contains
eighty-nine and four-tenths (89.4) acres, more or less, as shown
outlined in red on explanatory plan deposited under D.D. 14817n, — for
a term not exceeding twenty years, and upon such terms and conditions
as may be agreed upon between the Council and the Nanaimo Curling
Club.
(2)
The Registrar of Titles of the Victoria Land Titles District may
accept for registration, free from any condition or trust contained in
D.D. 14817n, any such lease.
1969-23-2; 1978-25-333,334.
Okanagan Basin Water Board
Provision for joint board
138
(1)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, issue supplementary Letters Patent to the Regional Districts
of Okanagan-Similkameen, Central Okanagan, North Okanagan, and
Columbia-Shuswap, or any of them, providing that such regional
district is empowered to participate with any other regional district
in the establishment and operation of a board to be known as the
"Okanagan Basin Water Board" (referred to as the "Water Board"), and
the provisions of subsection (4) of section 766 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to this
section.
(2)
The supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to this section shall
set out
(a)
the member municipalities of the regional districts participating in
the Water Board;
(b)
the objects and purposes of the Water Board;
(c)
the basis for sharing cost of the Water Board between the regional
districts;
(d)
the basis of sharing the portion of the cost of the regional district
between its participating member municipalities;
(e)
a limitation of the cost of the function of the Water Board;
(f)
the representation of the regional district on the Water Board; and
(g)
such other provisions and conditions as the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may deem proper and necessary.
1969-23-2.
Saanich
Land assembly and development
139
(1)
The Council of The Corporation of the District of Saanich may acquire
and develop any property within the areas shown outlined in red on a
plan entitled "Colquitz Basin Land Assembly and Development Plan,"
dated the twelfth day of February, 1969, signed by the Municipal Clerk
of The Corporation of the District of Saanich, and filed in the Land
Titles Office, Victoria, under D.F. 111724, for municipal, public,
residential, agricultural, commercial, or industrial use, or any
combination of those uses, and provide such works and services as are
deemed necessary or beneficial to the development of the area.
(2)
Subsections (2) and (3) of section 465 of the
Municipal Act
apply, with the necessary changes and so far as is applicable, to the
acquisition and development of property under this section.
(3)
Notwithstanding section 253 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Saanich may
borrow, without the assent of the owner-electors, a sum not exceeding
one million dollars for the purposes of subsection (1).
(4)
The powers conferred on the Council of The Corporation of the District
of Saanich by this section extend to all of the properties referred to
in subsection (1), whether such properties lie within or without the
Municipality of Saanich.
(5)
The Council of The Corporation of the District of Saanich may, by
by-law, regulate or prohibit the filling of any of the properties in
the areas referred to in subsection (1) which, in the opinion of
Council, would interfere with any of the purposes of subsection (1).
1969-23-2; 1978-25-334.
Surrey-White Rock
Boundary study
140
(1)
The Minister may appoint a Commissioner to inquire into the effect of
a proposed change in the boundaries between The Corporation of the
District of Surrey and The Corporation of the City of White Rock.
(2)
The Commissioner is authorized and empowered to undertake the study in
accordance with the following terms of reference:—
(a)
The portion of the District of Surrey that is to be the subject of
inquiry by the Commissioner is all that portion of the district which
lies south and west of the centre line of the Nicomekl River and
Highway No. 499:
(b)
The Commissioner shall determine the assets and liabilities of the
District of Surrey as of the thirty-first day of December, 1968, and
the proportion of those assets and liabilities applicable to that
portion of the district referred to in clause (a); and, for this
purpose, the Commissioner shall give due regard to the current market
values and not to the book values:
(c)
The Commissioner shall, in so far as it is possible, evaluate and
report on the effect that any adjustment of boundaries, with its
consequent reallocation of assets and liabilities, might have on the
remainder of the District of Surrey, the portion of the district
referred to in clause (a), and on the City of White Rock:
(d)
The Commissioner shall, in so far as it is possible, evaluate and
report on the effect that any adjustment of boundaries might have on
the services provided to the portion of the district referred to in
clause (a) and the remainder of the district; and, for this purpose,
shall consider water supply and distribution, streets and roads,
parks, drainage, dyking, and beach protection, and the provision of
sanitary sewer service for the portion of the district referred to in
clause (a):
(e)
The Commissioner shall determine, for the year 1968, the amounts and
sources of all revenue and expenditures of the District of Surrey
attributable to the portion of the district referred to in clause (a):
(f)
The Commissioner shall determine the share of the total bonded
indebtedness of the District of Surrey and of the City of White Rock
that the portion of the district referred to in clause (a) would be
required to share:
(g)
The Commissioner shall determine the effect that the reallocation of
bonded debt would have on the borrowing powers of the remainder of the
District of Surrey and the enlarged City of White Rock:
(h)
The Commissioner shall not, during the investigation or in the report,
indicate the desirability or otherwise of any proposed boundary
adjustment:
(i)
The Commissioner shall complete the investigation and report without
undue delay and, in any case, within a period of 6 months from
the date of the Commissioner's appointment or such further period as
the Minister, in the Minister's discretion, may decide:
(j)
The Commissioner shall report the findings of the investigation and
report to the Minister and concurrently forward a copy of the report
to the District of Surrey and to the City of White Rock, and the
content of the report shall not be disclosed by the Commissioner to
any other party:
(k)
The Commissioner shall have the powers granted a Commissioner under
the provisions of the
Public Inquiries Act
.
1969-23-2; 1977-75-7; 2023-10-694.
Vancouver
Moneys in lieu of taxes
141
(1)
For the purposes of this section,
"demised lands"
means all those portions of the subject lands which on the date the
subject lands are conveyed to the city are held under lease, together
with the improvements and chattels thereon;
"lessee"
means lessee of any of the demised lands;
"subject lands"
means all the land, including improvements, fixtures, and chattels
thereon, shown outlined in red on a plan entitled "False Creek Land to
Be Conveyed to the City of Vancouver," dated the twelfth day of March,
1969, and signed by the Deputy Minister of Lands and the City Clerk of
the City of Vancouver, which plan is on file in the Ministry of Lands,
Parks and Housing under Plan No. 18, Tube No. 897.
(2)
If at any time after the subject lands have been conveyed to the City
of Vancouver any of the demised lands are in whole or in part exempt
from taxation under the
Vancouver Charter
or the
Public Schools Act
, then every lessee of demised lands so exempt shall pay to the City
of Vancouver, in a like manner and time as taxes would have been
payable, an amount of money equal to the amount that but for such
exemption would have been payable.
(3)
For the purposes of determining the amount of money that but for an
exemption would have been payable, the Assessment Commissioner of the
City of Vancouver shall in each year assess separately the lands
demised by each lease.
(4)
Every lessee has the right to appeal the assessment on the lessee's
demised lands, and for this purpose the provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
and the
Assessment Equalization Act
relating to appeals shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(5)
The provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
relating to the collection of real-property taxes from the occupiers
of Crown lands shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the collection of all
moneys made payable by subsection (2) of this section.
1969-23-2; 1977-75-64; 1979-20-14; 2023-10-695.
Repealed
142
[Repealed 1971-40-3.]
Victoria
Debenture issue
143
Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Municipal Act
but subject to the Victoria City Debt Refunding Acts of 1937 and 1944,
the Council of The Corporation of the City of Victoria may provide in
any security-issuing by-law adopted under the authority of By-law No.
5480, being a by-law of the Corporation cited as the "Capital Budget
Borrowing Submission By-law, 1964," or under the authority of any
comprehensive loan authorization by-law hereafter adopted by the
Council pursuant to section 253a of the
Municipal Act
, for the issuance of debentures pursuant to the terms and conditions
of which payments by way of interest on principal are to be made
semi-annually or annually, and payments in repayment of principal are
to be made on the maturity thereof on a date to be fixed by the
by-law, but the date shall not be later than ten years after the date
of adoption of the by-law or the approval by the Lieutenant-Governor
in Council, whichever is later.
1969-23-2.
Greater Vancouver Regional District
By-law No. 8
144
(1)
By-law No. 8 of the Greater Vancouver Regional District is declared to
be in all respects valid and effectual, and the by-laws of the member
municipalities, including that of the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and
Drainage District referred to therein, are declared in all respects
valid and effectual and, for the purposes of such By-law No. 8, By-law
No. 1317 of The Corporation of the District of Coquitlam, By-law No.
3652 of The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver, By-law No.
3150 of The Corporation of the District of North Vancouver, and the
by-laws of The Corporation of Delta referred to in By-law No. 8 are
security-issuing by-laws.
(2)
The Greater Vancouver Regional District is hereby empowered to raise
all or part of the moneys authorized to be borrowed under By-law No. 8
in dollars of the United States of America; but the total amount
raised under the said by-law shall be approximately equal in Canadian
funds to the amount authorized by the by-law, and the surplus
accruing, or the loss suffered, resulting from any fluctuation of the
value of the United States dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar
shall be borne by, or be to the credit of, the member municipalities.
1969-23-2.
Not in force
145
[Not in force.]
Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board
Confirms Orders in Council
146
(1)
Orders in Council Nos. 4116/68 and 837/69, and the regulations made
thereunder, and the supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to
Order in Council No. 4116/68 are confirmed and validated on and from
the date of their approval.
(2)
For the purpose of effecting the winding-up of the affairs of the
Lower Mainland Regional Planning Board, the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may make such further regulations as are considered necessary
or advisable, and such regulations shall have the same force and
effect as if enacted by this Act.
1969-23-2.
By-laws
Validates by-laws
147
Notwithstanding that the statutory adoption dates were not complied
with, the following by-laws are declared valid and effectual from the
respective dates of adoption: The Corporation of the Village of
Ashcroft "Tax Rates By-law No. 137, 1969"; The Corporation of the
Village of Ashcroft "Annual Budget By-law, 1969"; Village of Chase
"Annual Budget By-law, 1969"; Regional District of Dewdney-Alouette
"Annual Budget By-law No. 5, 1969"; The Corporation of the Village of
Hazelton "Annual Budget By-law, 1969"; The Coroporation of the Village
of Hazelton "Tax Rates By-law No. 77, 1969"; District of Mackenzie
"Rates By-law, 1969"; Powell River Regional District "Annual Budget
By-law, 1969"; Village of Sayward "Tax Rates By-law No. 13, 1969";
Village of Sayward "Village of Sayward Budget By-law No. 15, 1969";
Village of Valleyview "Commercial Vehicle Licensing By-law".
1970-34-3.
Capital Programmes
Validates by-law
148
A by-law adopting a capital expenditure programme pursuant to section
199a of the
Municipal Act
during the year 1970 is declared valid and effectual, notwithstanding
that such by-law was adopted after the fifteenth day of May, 1970.
1970-34-3; 1971-40-4.
Campbell River
Amends by-law
149
In clause (b) of section 2 of the District of Campbell River by-law
cited as "The Business Tax By-law No. 386, 1968", for the words, "four
per centum (4%)" shall be read the words, "four-tenths of one per
centum (4/10%)", from the date of its adoption.
1970-34-3.
Campbell River Fire Protection District
Approval
150
Notwithstanding any provision of an agreement entered into between the
Willow Point Waterworks District and Campbell River Fire Protection
District pursuant to By-law No. 40 of the fire protection district,
the location of the fire hall referred to in the agreement shall be at
such location as may be approved by the fire commissioner.
1970-34-3; 1978-22-9.
Courtenay
Validates by-law
151
The Corporation of the City of Courtenay By-law No. 1009, cited as
"Civic Square Parking Lot and Theatre Arts Complex Loan Authorization
By-law No. 1009, 1970", is declared valid and effectual from the date
of its adoption.
1970-34-3.
Duncan
Validates agreement
152
The Corporation of the City of Duncan shall be deemed to have had, and
has, full power and authority to enter into an agreement for purchase
and sale of the water utility system of the Eagle Heights Waterworks
District substantially in the form of agreement deposited in the
office of the Inspector of Municipalities on the nineteenth day of
February, 1970.
1970-34-3.
Hudson's Hope
Reduction in area
153
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part I of the
Municipal Act
, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of
the Minister, by supplementary Letters Patent, reduce the area of the
District of Hudson's Hope so that the area excluded by such reduction
reverts to unorganized territory, and the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may in the supplementary Letters Patent change the status of
the district to a village and impose such conditions as the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council considers proper.
1970-34-3; 2023-10-696.
100 Mile House
Validates by-law
154
Village of 100 Mile House "Council Indemnity By-law Amendment By-law
No. 89" is declared valid and effectual from the first day of January,
1969.
1970-34-3.
Kitimat
Provision to change corporate name
155
Upon the request of the Council and the recommendation of the
Minister, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by supplementary
Letters Patent, change the name of The Corporation of the District of
Kitimat.
1970-34-3.
Matsqui, Sumas, Abbotsford
Sewers
156
(1)
This section comes into force on a date that the Central Fraser Valley
Regional District is granted, under Part XXIV of the
Municipal Act
and the supplementary Letters Patent thereunder, the function of trunk
sewers and sewage disposal to serve The Corporation of the Village of
Abbotsford, The Corporation of the District of Matsqui, and The
Corporation of the District of Sumas, or parts thereof.
(2)
The Councils of The Corporation of the Village of Abbotsford, The
Corporation of the District of Matsqui, and The Corporation of the
District of Abbotsford may, by by-law, provide that all or part of the
amount required to meet the annual requisition of the regional
district, for the function referred to in subsection (1), shall be
borne by the owners of real property within the area designated in the
supplementary Letters Patent of the regional district as the area to
be served by the facilities of the regional district, as if such area
was a specified area under Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
Subject to subsection (4), the provisions of subsection (4) of section
616 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to by-laws adopted by the Council of The Corporation of
the District of Matsqui or the Council of The Corporation of the
District of Sumas to establish a specified area under that section for
the purposes of undertaking the construction, maintenance, and
operation of sewage-collection systems.
(4)
The provisions of clause (b) of subsection (1) of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
apply with the necessary changes and so far as is applicable to a
by-law referred to in subsection (3).
1970-34-3.
Nanaimo
Powers under Div. (2), Part XVI
157
If, subsequent to the enactment of this section, the boundaries of The
Corporation of the City of Nanaimo are extended, the provisions of
Division (2) of Part XVI of the
Municipal Act
apply to The Corporation of the City of Nanaimo as if it were a
district municipality.
1970-34-3.
Port Alberni
Validates by-laws
158
Notwithstanding that the provisions of subsection (10) of section 427
of the
Municipal Act
were not complied with, any otherwise-valid by-law of the City of Port
Alberni adopted pursuant to that section is declared valid and
effectual for the years 1970 and 1971.
1970-34-3.
Port Hardy
Exceptions
159
Until the first day of January, 1975, the provisions of sections 249
and 253 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to the District of Port Hardy.
1970-34-3.
Prince Rupert
Enables by-law adoption
160
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 245 or 253 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of the City of Prince Rupert may, without the assent of
the owner-electors, adopt By-law No. 1835, cited as "Recreational
Complex and Library Facilities Amendment By-law No. 1835", as passed
third reading the nineteenth day of February, 1970, provided that by
the twelfth day of March, 1970, no petition has been received pursuant
to a notice in respect of the by-law published by the city.
1970-34-3.
Quesnel
Enables increase of size of Council
161
The provisions of section 151 of the
Municipal Act
apply to The Corporation of the Town of Quesnel as if it were a city
or district municipality.
1970-34-3.
Sumas
Arena
162
The Council of The Corporation of the District of Sumas may, by
by-law, provide that all or part of the annual requisition of the
Central Fraser Valley Regional District, for the purposes of the
Matsqui-Sumas-Abbotsford Community Arena, under Division II of the
Letters Patent and supplementary Letters Patent of the regional
district, shall be raised by a rate levied and imposed on the assessed
value of improvements only.
1970-34-3.
Sunshine Coast Regional District
Validates by-laws
163
Sunshine Coast Regional District By-laws Nos. 30, 31, 32, and 33,
cited as "Real Property Expropriation By-law No. 30, 1969"; "Real
Property Expropriation By-law No. 31, 1969"; "Real Property
Expropriation By-law No. 32, 1969"; "Personal Property Expropriation
By-law No. 33, 1969" are declared valid and effectual from the date of
their adoption and are declared to be within the powers of the
Regional Board.
1970-34-3.
Vancouver
West End Community Centre
164
(1)
The approval of the required majority of the property owners to a
by-law entitled "A By-law to Contract a Debt by the Issue and Sale of
Debentures in the Aggregate Principal Amount of $2,000,000 in Lawful
Money of Canada for the Purpose of Constructing, Furnishing, and
Equipping a Community Recreation Centre and Providing Off-street
Parking Facilities Therefor in the Block Bounded by Barclay Street,
Cardero Street, Haro Street, and Bidwell Street in the City of
Vancouver; and for Authorizing the Constructing, Furnishing, and
Equipping of the Said Community Recreation Centre and Providing
Off-street Parking Therefor" which, on the eleventh day of December,
1968, was submitted to the owners of real property in a portion of
District Lot 185 in the City of Vancouver, shall be deemed to be
approval of the required majority to a question submitted pursuant to
the provisions of section 523b of the
Vancouver Charter
, as enacted by section 25 of chapter 45 of the Statutes of British
Columbia, 1969.
(2)
Before a by-law is enacted, the Council shall publish a notice in two
issues of a daily newspaper circulating in the city stating that
unless five per centum of the owners of real property whose property
will be assessed under the by-law indicate their opposition, Council
will pass a by-law authorizing the issue of debentures at an interest
rate differing from that contained in the original by-law submitted to
the owners of real property, and also stating the maximum rate of
interest payable in respect of the debentures.
(3)
Notwithstanding this section, or the
Vancouver Charter
, or the provisions of the by-law approved by the required majority of
property owners referred to in subsection (1), the proceeds of a
by-law passed pursuant to, and in compliance with, this section may be
used for constructing, furnishing, and equipping a Community
Recreation Centre with off-street parking facilities on a site bounded
by Barclay, Cardero, Haro, and Denman Streets.
1970-34-3; 1972-38-2.
Vernon
Validates agreement
165
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 247 of the
Municipal Act
, an agreement entered into on the first day of December, 1969,
between The Corporation of the City of Vernon and the Vernon
Irrigation District is declared valid and effectual from the date of
the agreement.
1970-34-3.
Williams Lake
Loan authorization by-law
166
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of the Town of Williams Lake may, without the assent of
the owner-electors, adopt a loan authorization by-law authorizing the
borrowing of an amount not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars for
a term not exceeding ten years, for the purpose of repaying moneys
borrowed on behalf of the general revenue fund of the Town of Williams
Lake in the years prior to 1970.
1970-34-3.
Sewers
Repealed
167
[Repealed 2000-7-239.]
Kent
Validates by-laws
168
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the
Municipal Act
or in this Act, The Corporation of the District of Kent by-laws cited
as "District of Kent Flood Control Loan Authorization By-law No. 517,
1969" and "Agassiz-Harrison Mills Dyking Area Flood Control Loan
Authorization By-law No. 518, 1969" are declared valid and effectual
from the date of adoption, and the agreement with the Province made
under those by-laws is valid and effectual from the date of such
agreement.
(2)
For the purposes of the agreement referred to in subsection (1), or
any subsequent agreement under subsection (6) of section 526a of the
Municipal Act
, the Agassiz Drainage Area, the Harrison Mills Dyking Area, and the
Harrison Mills Drainage Area, as defined in section 76, are declared
to be specified areas established under and subject to the provisions
of section 526a.
1970-34-3.
Chilliwhack
Amends Act
169
(1)
Section 10 of the
Chilliwhack Dyking District Act, 1949
, is amended by
(a)
inserting after the word "systems" in the third line of clause (a) the
words, "River Bank Protection Works"; and
(b)
inserting after the word "systems" in clause (b) the words, "River
Bank Protection Works".
(2)
The Corporation of the Township of Chilliwhack has full power and
authority to enter into and carry out any agreements with the Province
to implement works carried out under the Federal-Provincial Agreement,
being "Agreement Covering a Plan for Flood Control in the Fraser
Valley, British Columbia", signed on the twenty-fourth day of May,
1968, and for the purposes of such agreement, the provisions of
subsections (4) to (7) of section 526a of the
Municipal Act
apply to the Township of Chilliwhack and the Chilliwhack Dyking
District, as if the area of the dyking district within the township
were a specified area established pursuant to the provisions of
section 526a.
1970-34-3.
Delta
Plans for land of B.C. Harbours Board
170
With the approval of the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, the Council
of the Corporation of Delta may, jointly with the British Columbia
Harbours Board, undertake preparation of plans of development
expressed in the form of maps, plans, reports, or any combination
thereof, for lands, foreshore, and lands covered by water, held or
acquired for the purposes of the British Columbia Harbours Board and
for any adjacent lands designated by the Council of the municipality.
1970-34-3.
Fort St. James
Borrowing
171
Notwithstanding subsection (3) of section 248 or subsection (2) of
section 249, both of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the Village of Fort St. James may
borrow a sum not exceeding thirty thousand dollars for a municipal
hall, including library facilities.
1970-34-3.
Validation of assessment rolls
172
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the
Assessment Equalization Act
, or any other Act, the real property assessment roll of a
municipality for taxation purposes for the year 1971 is not
invalidated merely by reason of the Assessor failing to make and
subscribe to the statutory declaration referred to in section 349 of
the
Municipal Act
.
1971-40-5.
Employment programmes
173
(1)
The provisions of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to a loan authorization by-law where the money is to be
borrowed from the Government of Canada pursuant to a programme to
stimulate employment; but the Inspector of Municipalities, prior to
approving the by-law pursuant to section 255 of the
Municipal Act
, may direct that the by-law be submitted for the assent of the
owner-electors.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of section 248 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of a village may use funds borrowed from the Government
of Canada pursuant to a programme to stimulate employment for any
capital purpose within the jurisdiction of the Council.
(3)
This section is retroactive to the first day of December, 1970.
1971-40-5.
Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia Act
not to apply
174
Section 22 of the
Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia Act
does not apply where the money is to be borrowed from the Government
of Canada.
1971-40-5.
Letters Patent
175
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the following Letters Patent and supplementary Letters Patent and
the Orders in Council authorizing their issue are confirmed and
validated as from the respective date of issue:—
Letters Patent —
Date of
Issue
Order in
Council
All Regional Districts
June 17, 1970
1961/70
District of Houston
October 20, 1970
3484/70
City of Grand Forks
January 7, 1971
36/71
Village of Port Alice
January 19, 1971
(effective date,
January 1, 1971)
198/71
1971-40-5.
Fire protection
176
Where a regional district is providing fire protection for a specified
area, the Regional Board may, by by-law, exercise the powers of clause
(l) of subsection (1) of section 59 of the
Water Act
.
1971-40-5.
Validation of by-law
177
(1)
Any municipal or regional district by-law authorizing the borrowing of
money for water, sewer, or pollution control and abatement facilities
adopted prior to the first day of April, 1968, for which financing has
not been completed is, without amendment, a sufficient loan
authorization by-law to finance the amount authorized pursuant to such
by-law through the Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia.
(2)
Subsection (1) applies only to that portion of the amount authorized
for which no securities have been issued.
1971-40-5.
Finance Authority appointments
178
All Regional Board appointments of members to the Municipal Finance
Authority of British Columbia for the year 1970 are confirmed and
validated, notwithstanding that any such appointment was made
subsequent to the last day of February.
1971-40-5.
Campbell River
179
The tax sale conducted by the Collector of the District of Campbell
River under section 395 of the
Municipal Act
in the year 1970 is declared a nullity and the provisions of
subsection (2), section 409, of that Act apply, with the necessary
changes and so far as are applicable; and the Registrar of the
Victoria Land Titles District shall cancel all references in the
records to the tax sale.
1971-40-5; 1978-25-333.
Columbia Basin Water Board
180
(1)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, issue supplementary Letters Patent to the Regional District
of Central Kootenay, Kootenay Boundary, East Kootenay, and
Columbia-Shuswap, or any of them, providing that such regional
district is empowered to participate with any other such regional
district in the establishment and operation of a Board to be known as
the "Columbia Basin Water Board" (herein referred to as the "Water
Board"), and the provisions of subsections (4), (4a), (4b), and (4c)
of section 766 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to this
section.
(2)
The supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to this section shall
set out
(a)
the member municipalities of the regional districts participating in
the Water Board;
(b)
the objects and purposes of the Water Board;
(c)
the basis for sharing cost of the Water Board between the regional
districts;
(d)
the basis of sharing the portion of the cost of the regional district
between its participating member municipalities;
(e)
a limitation of the cost of the function of the Water Board;
(f)
the representation of the regional district on the Water Board; and
(g)
such other provisions and conditions as the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may deem proper and necessary.
1971-40-5.
Regional District of Comox-Strathcona
181
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of section 766AAA of
the
Municipal Act,
the by-law of the Regional District of Comox-Strathcona entitled "Lake
Trail and Powerhouse Road Specified Area Establishment By-law, 1970"
is declared valid and effectual from the date of its adoption.
1971-40-5.
Cranbrook, Fernie, and Kimberley
182
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of section 571 of the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the agreements entered into on the thirtieth day of
June, 1970, between The Corporation of the City of Cranbrook and the
British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority; The Corporation of the
City of Fernie and the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority; the
City of Kimberley and the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority
and any variations made from time to time in those agreements are
declared valid and effectual from the date of the agreements and
within the power of the respective Corporations and City.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of section 472 of the
Municipal Act
, all moneys received as interest on the sale price and the revenue
phasing-out allowance and for systems rental by the Cities of
Cranbrook, Fernie, and Kimberley from the sale of their electrical
distribution systems may be treated as general revenue until the first
day of January, 1979, but in the case of the City of Kimberley, such
general revenue shall be deemed to be revenue applicable to
expenditures for those services enumerated in clauses (a) to (i) of
section 24 of the supplementary Letters Patent of the City of
Kimberley dated the twenty-ninth day of October, 1968.
1971-40-5.
Fraser Mills-Coquitlam
183
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
or any other Act, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the
recommendation of the Minister, declare the Letters Patent of The
Corporation of the District of Coquitlam and The Corporation of the
District of Fraser Mills surrendered, and may issue Letters Patent
reincorporating the area comprising the former municipalities as a new
municipality and may include in the Letters Patent such provisions as
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may consider proper and necessary
and may include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
provisions respecting any matter referred to in section 12.
1971-40-5.
Greater Vancouver Regional District
184
(1)
The Regional Board of the Greater Vancouver Regional District is
empowered to carry out studies and investigate
(a)
transportation needs as envisaged by the municipalities that comprise
the Greater Vancouver Regional District;
(b)
the financial aspects pertaining to clause (a); and
(c)
a plan for the transportation function and the constitution of an
agency to undertake the function.
(2)
Upon the approval by the Regional Board of the plan developed under
subsection (1), the Board may carry out negotiations with the
municipalities, other public bodies, and operators of public transport
facilities to prepare and develop a detailed proposal.
1971-40-5.
Greater Vancouver Regional District Regional Parks
185
(1)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may dissolve the Vancouver-Fraser
Park District and, by supplementary Letters Patent, add the function
of regional parks pursuant to the
Regional Parks Act
to the functions of the Greater Vancouver Regional District.
(2)
The participating member municipalities of the regional district are
those member municipalities that were participating member
municipalities of the former regional park district and, for the
purposes of this function, those member municipalities of the former
regional park district not within the regional district are deemed to
be members of the regional district with all the rights, duties, and
obligations of a member municipality of the regional district with
respect to the regional parks function.
(3)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, at the request of the Regional
Board, in the supplementary Letters Patent or further supplementary
Letters Patent, add further member municipalities whether such member
municipality is within or without the regional district.
(4)
Before making a request under subsection (3), the Regional Board shall
obtain the consent of the Council of the municipality concerned.
(5)
Upon the dissolution of the Vancouver-Fraser Park District and the
issue of supplementary Letters Patent to the regional district, all of
the assets, rights, claims, obligations, and liabilities of the
regional park district are transferred and become the assets, rights,
claims, obligations, and liabilities of the Greater Vancouver Regional
District.
1971-40-5.
Houston
186
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, amend the Letters Patent incorporating the District of
Houston dated the thirty-first day of January, 1969, to the extent
necessary to provide that the first fully elected Council of the
municipality be elected and take office at a date earlier than
provided in the Letters Patent.
1971-40-5.
Repealed
187
[Repealed 1994-52-119.]
Nanaimo
188
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of section 617 of the
Municipal Act
, in the event that the Council of The Corporation of the City of
Nanaimo undertakes to provide off-street parking facilities pursuant
to the provisions of Division (4) of Part XXVII of the Act and all or
part of the cost thereof is met out of moneys borrowed, the Council
may, by by-law, adopted by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds
of all the members of the Council and approved by the Inspector of
Municipalities, provide for the application of so much of the current
revenue derived from the operation of parking meters within the City
of Nanaimo as the Council may by such by-law determine to the
repayment of the debt or to the payment of interest thereon.
(2)
The Council may, subject to the approval of the Minister, similarly
make a capital contribution from a reserve fund toward the cost of
providing such off-street parking facilities.
(3)
The balance of the cost shall be charged against the owners of real
property within the specified area pursuant to the provisions of
Division (2) of Part XVI of the Act.
1971-40-5.
Port Alberni
189
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 581 of the Municipal Act,
the Council of the City of Port Alberni may, on petition, provide, as
a work of local improvement, crosswalks, plantings, decorative
structures, shelters, seating, canopies, and similar works on, in,
under, or over any highway in any commercial area or part or parts
thereof.
1971-40-5.
Port Hardy-Princeton-Tahsis
190
Section 22 of the
Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia Act
does not apply to the District of Port Hardy and Villages of Princeton
and Tahsis.
1971-40-5.
Salmon Arm
191
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, if a valid petition is received by the Council of the District of
Salmon Arm from the owner-electors within an area defined by the
Minister requesting a vote on the question of excluding that area from
the municipality, the Council shall arrange for such a poll to be
taken as well as a poll on the same question in the remainder of that
area of the municipality which comprised the former The Corporation of
the District of Salmon Arm.
(2)
If, at each of the polls provided for under subsection (1), at least
three-fifths of the total votes cast by valid ballot are in favour of
the area being excluded, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, on
the recommendation of the Minister, by supplementary Letters Patent
reduce the area of the municipality accordingly.
(3)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, in the supplementary Letters
Patent, include such conditions as the Lieutenant-Governor in Council
may deem proper or necessary.
1971-40-5.
South Fort George
192
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 26 of the
Municipal Act
, the Minister may direct that the question of uniting the Village of
South Fort George with the City of Prince George be submitted to the
owner-electors of the Village of South Fort George.
(2)
If the assent of the owner-electors of the Village of South Fort
George is obtained pursuant to subsection (1), the Lieutenant-Governor
in Council may, upon the recommendation of the Minister, accept the
surrender of the Letter Patent of the City of Prince George and of the
Village of South Fort George and issue other Letters Patent uniting
the two municipalities.
(3)
Letters Patent under this section may include directions on any of the
matters referred to in section 12, and such other matters as the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council may deem proper or necessary.
1971-40-5.
Vancouver
Repealed
193
[Repealed 1973-152-11.]
Not enacted
194-195
[Not enacted.]
Greenwood
196
The title of The Corporation of the City of Greenwood to the following
described lands acquired at tax sale proceedings is hereby confirmed
and vests in The Corporation of the City of Greenwood:—
(a)
Lots 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 12, Block 54, District Lot 711,
Similkameen Division of Yale District, Plan 70:
(b)
Lots 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, and 12, Block 87, District Lot 711, Similkameen
Division of Yale District, Plan 70, subject to 14292E as to all
minerals precious and base (save coal and petroleum) which may be
found lying in or under District Lot 830, Similkameen Division Yale
District, known as the Fred "D" Mineral Claim.
1971-40-5.
Prince George
197
Section 75B applies, with the necessary changes and so far as is
applicable, to the City of Prince George.
1971-40-5.
Surrey
198
(1) to (3)
[Not in force.]
(4)
This section, excepting this subsection and subsection (5), comes into
force on a day to be fixed by Proclamation of the Lieutenant-Governor,
and the Lieutenant-Governor may fix different dates for the coming
into force of the several provisions of this section.
(5)
Subsection (4) and this subsection comes into force on Royal Assent.
1971-40-5; 1977-53-1; 2023-10-697.
199
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, or any by-law of the municipality, all moneys required to be raised
from the specified areas established by The Corporation of the
District of Surrey "Whalley Recreation District Capital Works
Construction and Loan By-law, 1964, No. 2158" and The Corporation of
the District of Surrey "Cloverdale Community Centre Construction and
Loan By-law, 1955, No. 1338" shall be levied and imposed on the
municipality at large.
(2)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the assent of the owner-electors is not required for the adoption of
a loan authorization by-law to finance the works set out in the Surrey
Parks and Recreation Commission Recommended Five-Year Facility
Development Programme Report dated the eighth day of September, 1971,
for the Crescent Park development.
(3)
Until the programme set out in the report referred to in subsection
(2) is complete, the works set out in the programme shall not be
amended nor shall borrowing for any other capital works for
recreational purposes be undertaken, except upon the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of all members of Council and the approval of
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council.
1972-38-3.
Greater Vancouver Regional District
200
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Vancouver Charter
or the
Municipal Act
, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by supplementary Letters
Patent, grant as a function to the Greater Vancouver Regional District
powers for the control and abatement of air pollution in respect of
any class or classes of operation and for such specific period or
periods of time as may be made applicable under section 8 of the
Pollution Control Act, 1967
, to the area of the Greater Vancouver Regional District.
(2)
The supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to this section shall
set out such terms and conditions as may be considered proper or
necessary and, without affecting the generality of the foregoing, may
provide
(a)
for the procedures to be followed by the regional district with
respect to applications for air pollution control permits and
objections thereto;
(b)
for the appeal procedures from decisions made in the exercise of the
powers granted to the regional district; and
(c)
for the procedures to determine the standards respecting the quality
and character of the contaminant or contaminants which may be
discharged into air.
(3)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may make, alter, and repeal
regulations for carrying out the spirit, intent, meaning, and purpose
of supplementary Letters Patent issued pursuant to subsection (1).
(4)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, at the request of the Regional
Board, in the supplementary Letters Patent or further supplementary
Letters Patent, add, for the purposes of this function, further member
municipalities not within the regional district.
1971-40-5.
Thompson-Nicola Regional District
201
(1)
Upon the request of the Regional Board of the Thompson-Nicola Regional
District, a Committee shall be established consisting of the Mayors of
the City of Kamloops, the Town of Valleyview, the District of
Brocklehurst and the District of Dufferin and the Chair of the B.C.
Fruitlands Irrigation District to investigate and make recommendations
on whether and on what terms and conditions the regional district
should provide the following works and services for the area
comprising the above-named municipalities and improvement districts:
(a)
Water supply and trunk mains:
(b)
Sewage disposal and trunk mains:
(c)
Recreation facilities and programmes:
(d)
Protection of persons and property by the assumption of the powers and
duties of Divisions (1) and (2) of Part XX of the
Municipal Act
; and
(e)
Community planning by the assumption of the powers and duties of
Division (1) of Part XXI of the
Municipal Act
.
(2)
The Regional Board shall not request the establishment of a Committee
under subsection (1) until it has submitted the question of
establishing the Committee to the owner-electors of the area set out
in subsection (1) at large, and the total number of votes cast in
favour of the question is equal to three-fifths of the total votes
cast by valid ballot.
(3)
If the Committee recommends that any or all of the works and services
referred to in subsection (1) should be provided by the regional
district, the question of granting such function or functions to the
regional district shall be submitted to the owner-electors of the area
at large.
(4)
If the total number of votes cast in favour of the question is equal
to three-fifths of the total votes cast by valid ballot, the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council, upon the recommendation of the
Minister, may, by supplementary Letters Patent, grant such functions
to the regional district and may in the supplementary Letters Patent
provide for the implementation of such of the recommendations of the
Committee and such other terms and conditions as are deemed proper and
necessary.
(5)
Where a question is to be submitted to the owner-electors under
subsection (2) or (3), the Secretary of the regional district shall
notify the Councils or Trustees of each municipality or improvement
district, as the case may be, who shall provide for the submission of
the question within their jurisdiction.
(6)
The Clerk or Secretary concerned shall arrange for the conduct of the
poll in accordance with the provisions of the
Municipal Act
and any directions of the Secretary of the regional district.
(7)
For the purposes of this section "owner-elector" means, in the case of
a municipality, an owner-elector within the meaning of the
Municipal Act
, and, in the case of an improvement district, an owner of land within
that part of the improvement district not within a municipality who is
a Canadian citizen or other British subject of the full age of
nineteen years.
1972-38-4; 2023-10-698.
Waiver of rates
202
(1)
The Council may, by by-law, waive any part of any tax, rate, or charge
imposed for the purpose of providing water, sewers, or pollution
control and abatement facilities, with respect to their application to
property owned and occupied by any class of citizens of sixty-five
years of age or over specified in the by-law.
(2)
Any deficiency resulting from a waiver of taxes, rates, or charges
pursuant to subsection (1) shall be made up from the general revenues
of the municipality.
1972-38-5; 1974-59-1
Repealed
203
[Repealed 1994-52-120.]
Repealed
204
[Repealed 2000-7-240.]
Burnaby-Vancouver
205
The Councils of The Corporation of the District of Burnaby and the
City of Vancouver are empowered to enter into agreements, under such
terms and conditions as are considered necessary, for the purpose of
establishing, constructing, or maintaining highways within or
partially within either municipality.
1972-38-5.
Castlegar-Kinnaird
206
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, revenue raised pursuant to any business tax by-law of the Town of
Castlegar from the industrial plant site defined in the supplementary
Letters Patent of the Town of Castlegar issued the twenty-eighth day
of December, 1967, shall be shared between the Town of Castlegar and
the Town of Kinnaird on the basis of sixty per cent for the Town of
Castlegar and forty per cent for the Town of Kinnaird, and the Town of
Castlegar shall collect the revenue and pay over to the Town of
Kinnaird forty per cent of such revenue.
(2)
This section applies only if the Town of Kinnaird imposes a business
tax within its jurisdiction at the same rates as that imposed by the
Town of Castlegar.
1972-38-5.
Central Saanich
207
Notwithstanding section 532 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Central Saanich
may, by by-law,
(a)
define an area of the municipality of Central Saanich that, in the
opinion of the Council of the Corporation, will be served by the
municipal sewerage system within a specified period from the date of
the adoption of the by-law;
(b)
from the date of the adoption of the by-law, impose upon the owner of
real property either
(i)
a uniform parcel tax being an equal levy in dollars on each parcel of
land within the said area; or
(ii)
a frontage tax;
but the uniform parcel tax under paragraph (i), or the frontage tax
under paragraph (ii), may be waived or reduced in respect of real
property, any present or previous owner of which
(iii)
has constructed at the present or previous owner's own expense any
portion of the sewerage system of the municipality; or
(iv)
has paid all debt and debt charges, including interest, in respect of
that portion of the sewerage system of the municipality that serves
the real property; and
(c)
impose a connection charge upon owners of real property for the
privilege of connecting the real property to the municipal sewerage
system; but, in the by-law, provision shall be made whereby the
connection charge may be waived or reduced in respect of real
property, any present or previous owner or present occupier of which
has constructed at the present or previous owner's or previous
occupier's own expense a sewerage disposal system for that real
property.
1972-38-5; 2023-10-699.
North Saanich
208
(1)
The Council of the District of North Saanich may, by by-law, with the
approval of the owner-electors, establish a reserve fund for the
purpose of protecting the general ecology of the District.
(2)
Where a fund has been established under subsection (1), the Council
may enter into an agreement with any owner of land whereby the
municipality agrees to compensate the owner for the right of the
municipality to preserve the timber on the land for a period of up to
twenty years.
(3)
Where a by-law has been adopted pursuant to subsection (1), no person
shall cut timber from any parcel of land exceeding 8 000 m
2
within the municipality until the person has notified the municipality
in writing of the person's intention to cut timber and the
municipality has declared in writing that it will not enter into an
agreement under subsection (2), or until sixty days have elapsed from
the date upon which the owner notified the municipality.
1972-38-5; 1977-53-1; 2023-10-700.
Port Alberni
209
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement entered into between Port Alberni Harbour
Commissioners and MacMillan Bloedel Limited and City of Port Alberni
on the twenty-third day of February, 1972, is declared valid and
effectual on and from the date of the agreement.
1972-38-5.
Prince Rupert
210
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, or any other Act, the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, from time
to time, upon the recommendation of the Minister, by supplementary
Letters Patent, extend the boundaries of the City of Prince Rupert to
include any lands required for or conducive to the establishment and
operation of a national harbour.
1972-38-5.
Revelstoke
211
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of section 571 of the
Municipal Act
, or any other Act, the agreements entered into on the twenty-eighth
day of December, 1971, between The Corporation of the City of
Revelstoke and the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority and any
variations made from time to time in those agreements are declared
valid and effectual from the date of the agreements and within the
power of the Corporation.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 472 of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of the City of Revelstoke may transfer to the general
revenue fund of the municipality such amount as is approved by the
Minister not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars per annum from the
annual payments made to it pursuant to the agreement referred to in
subsection (1), but the provisions of section 472 otherwise apply.
1972-38-5.
District of Stewart
212
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement entered into between the District of Stewart and
Granduc Operating Company on the thirty-first day of July, 1968, is
declared valid and effectual from the date of the agreement and within
the power of the district.
1972-38-5.
Sumas Drainage, Dyking, and Development District
213
(1)
The area of the Sumas Drainage, Dyking, and Development District, as
described in the
Sumas Drainage, Dyking, and Development District Act
, being chapter 87 of the Statutes of British Columbia, 1920, is
amended by deleting and removing therefrom all lands lying to the east
of the centre lines of the Sumas River, the Vedder Canal, and the
Vedder River.
(2)
The land so deleted and removed under subsection (1) shall be deemed
to be a specified area within The Corporation of the Township of
Chilliwhack under section 526A of the
Municipal Act
.
(3)
Sixteen decimal five seven eight per cent of the assets and
liabilities of the Sumas Drainage, Dyking, and Development District
are hereby transferred to, and shall be assumed by, The Corporation of
the Township of Chilliwhack, excepting any land or interest in land,
or any portion of the debt owing to the Province under the
Dyking Assessments Adjustment Act, 1947
.
(4)
The provisions of this section come into force on a date to be fixed
by Proclamation of the Lieutenant-Governor.
1972-38-5; 2023-10-701.
Surrey-White Rock
214
(1)
The Councils of The Corporation of the District of Surrey (herein
called the "District") and The Corporation of the City of White Rock
(herein called the "City") shall designate an area (herein called the
"transfer area") within the District that may be included within the
City.
(2)
Where a transfer area has been designated under subsection (1),
(a)
the Council of the District shall submit the question of the area of
the municipality being so reduced to the owner-electors in
(i)
the transfer area; and
(ii)
the remainder of the municipality; and
(b)
the Council of the City shall submit the question of the boundaries of
the City being so extended to the owner-electors of the City.
(3)
If the number of votes cast in favour of the question is equal to
three-fifths of the votes cast by valid ballot,
(a)
in the transfer area;
(b)
in the transfer area and the remainder of the District combined; and
(c)
in the City;
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by supplementary Letters
Patent, so reduce the area of the District and extend the area of the
City by the inclusion of the transfer area within the City.
(4)
Before issuing supplementary Letters Patent under this section, the
Minister may appoint a Commissioner or Commissioners to recommend to
the Minister the terms and conditions to be included in the
supplementary Letters Patent.
(5)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, in the supplementary Letters
Patent, impose upon either or both municipalities such conditions as
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may consider proper or necessary.
(6)
If the Councils of the District and the City, or either of them, do
not prior to the thirty-first day of May, 1972, designate the transfer
area and provide for the submission of the question as required by
this section, the Minister may designate the transfer area and direct
the Clerks of the municipalities to submit the question.
1972-38-5; 2023-10-702.
Terrace
215
Regardless of any use of, or reservations placed on, the land, the
District of Terrace is authorized to transfer any land owned by it
required as a site for Parkside School to the Board of School Trustees
of School District No. 88 (Skeena-Cassiar) in exchange for other land
owned by the School District.
1972-38-5.
Vancouver
216
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
, the Minister may declare that any specified real property, within
the City of Vancouver, that is vested in the city, but held or
occupied by a person who holds the real property otherwise than by or
on behalf of the city is liable to taxation pursuant to the rating
by-laws, on and from such date as may be specified by the Minister.
(2)
The Minister may declare that the real property referred to in a
declaration made pursuant to subsection (1) of this section shall be
liable to taxation on and from a date prior to the coming into force
of this section and the Minister may amend or revoke the declaration.
(3)
A declaration made pursuant to this section shall continue to be of
full force and effect unless and until the liability for the said real
property for taxation determines as provided for in subsection (4) of
this section, notwithstanding that the real property ceases to be
vested in the City of Vancouver after the making of the declaration.
(4)
On and from the date on which either
(a)
the real property specified in a declaration made pursuant to
subsection (1), or any part thereof, ceases to be held or occupied by
a person who holds or occupies the real property otherwise than by or
on behalf of the City; or
(b)
the real property, or any part thereof, is released from the effect of
a declaration made pursuant to subsection (1) by a declaration made
pursuant to subsection (2),
the liability of the real property, or part thereof, for taxation
shall be determined as if this section had not been enacted.
(5)
The real property referred to in subsection (1) shall be entered in
the assessment roll in the name of the holder or occupier thereof,
whose interest shall be assessed at the actual value of the land and
improvements comprising the real property.
(6)
The Collector of Taxes will be entitled to amend the tax roll and the
assessment roll to the extent necessary to give effect to this section
and any declarations made hereunder.
(7)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Vancouver Charter
and the
Public Schools Act
, the taxes imposed on the real property referred to in subsection (1)
of this section are a liability only of the holder or occupier of such
real property, recoverable in the manner set out in the
Vancouver Charter
, but the real property is not liable to tax sale, nor are such taxes
a lien or charge on the real property.
(8)
The real property shall be deemed not to be exempt from taxation under
the
Vancouver Charter
for the purposes of subsection (2) of section 202 of the
Public Schools Act
.
(9)
The person whose name has been entered in the assessment roll pursuant
to subsection (2) of this section shall be deemed to be the owner of
the real property for the purposes of the
Provincial Home Acquisition Act
, and for the purposes of the
Provincial Home-owner Grant Act
.
(10)
The real property shall be deemed not to be exempt from taxation for
school purposes only by special Act, for the purposes of subsection
(2) of section 26 of the
Regional Hospital Districts Act
.
(11)
The words "actual value," "improvements," "land," and "real property"
in this section have the meanings given to them, respectively, in the
Vancouver Charter
, and, where the context so requires, by the
Assessment Equalization Act
.
(12)
This section applies only to real property that is held or occupied
for housing purposes.
1972-38-5.
217
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipalities Aid Act
, where the City of Vancouver has not applied the requisite amount for
the purposes set out in paragraph (i) of clause (c) of subsection (1a)
of section 3 of that Act, that amount shall be paid into a reserve
fund for the purposes set out in that paragraph (i).
1972-38-5.
Alberni-Clayoquot
218
(1)
Notwithstanding any provision of the
Municipal Act
, or the Letters Patent of the Regional District of Alberni-Clayoquot,
on and from a date specified by the Minister, the area comprising the
Beaver Creek Improvement District shall become Electoral Area E of the
regional district and the area comprising the Cherry Creek Waterworks
District shall become Electoral Area F.
(2)
The Minister may make such directions as the Minister considers proper
and necessary to provide for the first election of Directors to
represent the electoral areas referred to in subsection (1) and their
term of office.
(3)
On and from the date specified under subsection (1), the appointment
of the Directors presently representing the improvement districts are
terminated.
1972-38-5; 2023-10-703.
Burnaby
219
Notwithstanding any provisions of Part III of the
Municipal Act
, the Council of The Corporation of the District of Burnaby may make
provision for and adopt such procedures as are necessary for balloting
and voting for candidates, by-laws or referendums at the annual
election in 1972 by the use of voting machines, providing that secrecy
of voting is maintained.
1972-38-5.
District of Campbell River
220
By-law No. 522 of the District of Campbell River, cited as "Downtown
Off-Street Parking Specified Area By-law No. 522, 1972," as passed
third reading on the eighth day of February, 1972, is confirmed and
validated upon approval of the Minister and adoption by the Council.
1972-38-5.
Regional District of Comox-Strathcona
221
By-law No. 69 of the Regional District of Comox-Strathcona, cited as
"Electoral Area I Disposal Grounds Specified Area Establishment
By-law, 1971," is confirmed and validated from the date of its
adoption.
1972-38-5.
222
(1)
The Regional Board of the Regional District of Comox-Strathcona may,
by by-law, extend the "Lake Trail and Powerhouse Road Specified Area"
established pursuant to the Regional District of Comox-Strathcona
By-law No. 46, and the provisions of subsection (1) of section 618 of
the
Municipal Act
do not apply.
(2)
The provisions of section 253 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to a loan authorization by-law adopted for the purpose of
financing works within the specified area so extended.
1972-38-5.
Regional District of Nanaimo
223
(1)
The supplementary Letters Patent issued to the Regional District of
Nanaimo dated the fifteenth day of March, 1972, and Order in Council
1014/72 authorizing their issue are confirmed and validated as from
the date of issue.
(2)
The Lieutenant-Governor in Council may at the request of the Regional
Board amend the Letters Patent referred to in subsection (1).
(3)
The
Greater Nanaimo Sewerage and Drainage District Act
is repealed.
(4)
Subsection (3) comes into force and effect on a date to be fixed by
Proclamation of the Lieutenant-Governor, and subsections (1), (2), and
(4) come into force on Royal Assent.
1972-38-5; 2023-10-704.
Port Hardy
224
The supplementary Letters Patent issued to the District of Port Hardy
dated the thirtieth day of December, 1971, and Order in Council
4766/71 authorizing their issue are confirmed and validated from the
date of issue.
1972-38-5.
Repealed
225
[Repealed 1987-14-56.]
Chilliwhack
226
On the recommendation of the Minister, the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may, by supplementary Letters Patent, extend the area of The
Corporation of the Township of Chilliwhack to include all or part of
Cultus Lake Park as established under the
Cultus Lake Park Act
, and the supplementary Letters Patent may include such provisions as
the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may consider proper and necessary.
1972-38-5.
New Westminster
227
The provisions of section 10D apply with the necessary changes and in
so far as are applicable to the Corporation of the City of New
Westminster with respect to that part of the municipality within
District Lots 172, 757, and 758, Group 1, New Westminster District.
1972-38-5.
Comox-Strathcona
228
(1)
Notwithstanding section 766 of the
Municipal Act
, upon the request of the Regional Board of the Regional District of
Comox-Strathcona the Lieutenant-Governor in Council may, by
supplementary Letters Patent, grant to the regional district the
functions of recreation and community services, or either of them, for
any designated part of the regional district upon such terms and
conditions as are considered proper and necessary.
(2)
Before making a request under subsection (1), the Regional Board, with
the approval of the Minister, shall designate the area of the regional
district which is to participate and share in the cost of the
functions and submit the question of assuming the functions to the
owner-electors in the area so designated at large.
(3)
No request shall be made under subsection (1) unless the total number
of votes cast in favour of the question submitted under subsection (2)
is equal to three-fifths of the total votes cast by valid ballot in
the area at large.
1972-38-5.
Reorganizing municipalities
229
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part I of the
Municipal Act
, or in any other Act or regulation, the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council may, if the Lieutenant-Governor considers it to be in the
public interest,
(a)
dissolve the City of Kamloops, the District of Brocklehurst, the
District of Dufferin, and the Town of Valleyview and, by Letters
Patent, reincorporate the residents of the area comprising
(i)
the land within those municipalities; and
(ii)
such other land not within those municipalities as the
Lieutenant-Governor considers proper
into one new municipality;
(b)
dissolve the City of Kelowna and, by Letters Patent, reincorporate the
residents of the area of land comprising
(i)
the land within that municipality; and
(ii)
such other land not within that municipality as the
Lieutenant-Governor considers proper
into one new municipality.
and in the Letters Patent or by Order may
(c)
dissolve an improvement district that is wholly or partly within the
area referred to in clause (a) or clause (b); and
(d)
transfer any or all of the assets, rights, claims, obligations, and
liabilities of an existing municipality, regional district, or
improvement district to the new municipality.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part I of the
Municipal Act
, or in any other Act or regulation, or in the Letters Patent of the
existing municipality or improvement district, the Lieutenant-Governor
in Council may, in the Letters Patent or supplementary Letters Patent,
for the purposes of this section,
(a)
exempt the new municipality incorporated under this section or any
part thereof from any provision of any other Act or regulation:
(b)
exempt the owners and residents of the new municipality or any part
thereof from any provision of any other Act or regulation;
(c)
provide for the periods of time during which any exemption under
clause (a) or (b) is effective, and different times may be specified
for the several exemptions;
(d)
include any provisions that the Lieutenant-Governor in Council
considers necessary or desirable and that are required to carry out
the intent and purpose of this section and the incorporation of the
new municipality.
(3)
The Letters Patent or supplementary Letters Patent issued under this
section and every provision thereof prevails over any other Act or
regulation or any provision thereof, or the provisions of any other
Letters Patent or supplementary Letters Patent affected thereby, to
the extent that the Act, regulation, or other provision conflicts
with, is inconsistent with, or is repugnant to, the Letters Patent,
supplementary Letters Patent, or provision thereof issued under this
section.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part I of the
Municipal Act
, or in any other Act or regulation, the Minister is not required to
direct that a poll be taken before making a recommendation to the
Lieutenant-Governor in Council under this section, and the
requirements of section 10, 18, 18A, 21, 25, or 26 of the
Municipal Act
do not apply to an incorporation under this section.
(5)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on the tenth day
of October, 1972, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give
full force and effect to its provisions on or after that date.
1973-63-1; 2023-10-705.
Validating assessment rolls
230
No assessment or assessment roll for the year 1974 is invalid for the
reason only that the assessment roll was not completed and
authenticated by the Court of Revision by the twenty-eighth of
February.
1974-59-2.
Burnaby
231
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
or any by-law of the municipality,
(a)
the following by-laws of The Corporation of the District of Burnaby;
namely, By-laws numbered 6330, 6331, 6337, 6338, 6339, 6344, 6353,
6357, 6358, 6359, 6360, 6385, 6397, 6404, 6405, 6406, 6407, 6414,
6418, 6419, 6428, 6429, 6436, 6440, 6441, 6443, 6445, 6447, 6448,
6457, 6479, 6480, and 6481; and
(b)
the following by-laws of The Corporation of the District of Burnaby,
which have not yet been finally adopted but upon which public hearings
have been held; namely, By-laws numbered 6341, 6342, 6343, 6396, 6415,
6416, 6417, 6426, 6427, 6437, 6438, 6439, 6442, 6444, 6446, 6449,
6465, 6466, 6467, 6468, 6478, 6482, and 6483,
shall be deemed not to be invalid or defective by reason only that
section 703 (2a) of the
Municipal Act
and clause (7) of section 7.8 of The Corporation of the District of
Burnaby By-law numbered 4742 was not complied with.
1974-59-2.
Greater Vancouver Water District and Sewerage and Drainage District
232
(1)
For the purpose of this section, this Act and the regulations passed
under this Act shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be read
in conjunction with and be considered an extension of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
and the
Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act
, as the case may be.
(
2
)
The Greater Vancouver Water District Act, being chapter 22 of the
Statutes of British Columbia, 1924, is amended
(
a
)
by repealing section 10 (3) and substituting the following as
subsections (3) and (3a):
(3)
The regional district director of a municipality within the Greater
Vancouver Water District that is not a member municipality of the
Greater Vancouver Regional District shall be a member of the Board as
if the municipality were a member municipality of the Greater
Vancouver Regional District; but, where that municipality is entitled
to more than one Regional Board Director, the Council shall determine
which director shall be a member of the Board.
(3a)
Subsection (3) comes into force on the first day of January, 1975.
;
(
b
)
in section 70, by striking out the words "
Dominion of Canada
" at the end of the second sentence and substituting the words "
Government of Canada or any province thereof, or in securities the
principal and interest of which are guaranteed by the Government of
Canada or any province thereof
";
(
c
)
in section 74 (1), by inserting, after the word "
thereof
" in the third last line, the words "
or securities of the Municipal Finance authority of British Columbia;
" ; and
(
d
)
by repealing section 75 and substituting the following:
Investments
75
Except as otherwise provided, moneys to the credit of any fund
or funds may be invested or reinvested in
(a)
securities of the Government of Canada or any province thereof;
(b)
securities the principal and interest of which are guaranteed by
the Government of Canada or any province thereof;
(c)
securities of a regional district, or any of them;
(d)
securities of the Municipal Finance Authority of British
Columbia;
(e)
investments guaranteed by any chartered bank; and
(f)
deposits in, or shares or other evidences of indebtedness of, a
credit union incorporated under the
Credit Unions Act
.
(
3
)
The Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District Act, being
chapter 59 of the Statutes of British Columbia, 1956, is amended,
(
a
)
in section 2,
(
i
)
by repealing the definition of
"Facilities"
and substituting the following definition:
"Facilities" includes drains, ditches, sewers, intercepting-sewers,
sewage-treatment and disposal plants and works, liquid and solid
waste-disposal plants and works, pumping-stations, transfer stations,
incinerators, recycling and composting plants and other works
necessary thereto, and outlets for carrying off, treating, and
disposing of drainage and sewage, and any other and all works,
structures, lands, and conveniences incidental and necessary to the
completion of sewerage, drainage, or waste-disposal systems;
, and
(
ii
)
by inserting, after the definition of
"Temporary security,"
the following definition:
"Waste" includes, whether in liquid or solid form, garbage and
noxious, offensive, unwholesome, or discarded matter;
;
(
b
)
by inserting, after section 7, the following as section 7A:
Further objects
7A
(1)
The objects of the Corporation shall also be the disposal of all
types of waste in substantial accordance with a report of the
board of engineers composed of M. J. J. Dayton, R. M. Martin,
and F. R. Bunnell, dated the thirteenth day of June, 1973, a
copy of which has been filed in the office of the Provincial
Secretary, and which, for the purpose of identification, has
been signed by F. R. Bunnell, Commissioner of the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, and the purchase,
construction, operation, maintenance, and administration of
facilities for the disposal of all types of waste.
(2)
The Corporation shall have the right to perform work requisite
to its function but not included in the report referred to in
subsection (1), and to amend or vary any of the projects
recommended in the report in a manner which is not inconsistent
with the objects of the report, but only with the sanction of a
by-law of the Board passed by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of its members.
(3)
The Corporation may, by by-law passed by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of its members, regulate the planning,
construction, maintenance, operation, and administration of all
waste-disposal facilities within the area of the Greater
Vancouver Regional District.
(4)
The Corporation may authorize a member municipality to provide
facilities which are consistent with the intent of this Act at
any time at the cost of the municipality concerned.
(5)
In addition to its other powers, the Corporation shall have the
following powers:
(a)
To finance, design, construct, maintain, operate, and administer
waste-disposal facilities for the Crown in right of the Province
within or without the area of the Corporation at the sole and
exclusive cost of the Crown:
(b)
To establish the uses to which its waste-disposal facilities may
be put and by whom they may be used:
(c)
In addition to the general borrowing powers provided for in
section 36, by by-law of the Board, with the recommendation of
the Commissioner and the approval of the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council, to borrow moneys and pay interest thereon for the
purpose of carrying out the powers vested in the Corporation by
this subsection:
(d)
To purchase or otherwise acquire waste-disposal facilities of
member municipalities and others:
(e)
To enter into agreements with member municipalities to provide
for the collection and removal of waste by the Corporation for
and on behalf of, and at the sole cost and expense of, those
member municipalities:
(f)
To enter into agreements with a municipality and any other
person relating to the removal and disposal of waste, within or
without the area of the Corporation:
(g)
To establish scales of charges for services rendered by the
Corporation and for the use of any of the waste-disposal
facilities of the Corporation.
(6)
The Corporation shall have all the rights, powers, and
obligations necessary to carry out the function of waste
disposal, and for the purchase, construction, operation,
maintenance, and administration of facilities for the disposal
of all types of waste as the Corporation has for the
carrying-out of the construction, maintenance, operation, and
administration of major sewerage and drainage facilities, and
the provisions of this Act relating to the carrying-out of the
construction, maintenance, operation, and administration of
major sewerage and drainage facilities apply, with the necessary
changes and so far as they are applicable, to the function of
waste disposal and for the purchase, construction, operation,
maintenance, and administration of facilities for the disposal
of all types of waste. ;
(
c
)
by repealing section 8 (3) and substituting the following as
subsections (3) and (3a):
(3)
The regional district director of a municipality within the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District that is not a member
municipality of the Greater Vancouver Regional District shall be a
member of the Board as if the municipality were a member municipality
of the Greater Vancouver Regional District; but, where that
municipality is entitled to more than one Regional Board Director, the
Council shall determine which director shall be a member of the Board.
(3a)
Subsection (3) comes into force on the first day of January, 1975.
;
(
d
)
in section 46, by adding, after the word "
Canada
" at the end, the words "
or any province thereof or in any securities the principal and
interest of which are guaranteed by Canada or any province thereof
";
(
e
)
in section 50, by striking out the words "
the Province,
" wherever they appear in the second sentence, and substituting
the words "
any province thereof,
"; and by inserting, after the words "
province thereof
" where it first appears as amended, the words "
or securities of the Municipal Finance Authority of British Columbia
"; and
(
f
)
by repealing section 51 and substituting the following:
Investments
51
Except as otherwise provided, moneys to the credit of any fund
or funds may be invested or reinvested in
(a)
securities of the Government of Canada or any province thereof;
(b)
securities the principal and interest of which are guaranteed by
the Government of Canada or any province thereof;
(c)
securities of a regional district, or any of them;
(d)
securities of the Municipal Finance Authority of British
Columbia;
(e)
investments guaranteed by any chartered bank; and
(f)
deposits in, or shares or other evidences of indebtedness of, a
credit union incorporated under the
Credit Unions Act
.
1974-59-2.
Resort Municipality of Whistler
233
Notwithstanding the
Resort Municipality of Whistler Act
,
(a)
the election of the mayor and aldermen of the Resort Municipality of
Whistler on September 6, 1975,
(b)
the appointment of one alderman of the Resort Municipality of Whistler
on September 2, 1975 by Order in Council 598/75,
(c)
all by-laws passed and things done by the council of the Resort
Municipality of Whistler so elected or appointed, and
(d)
all regulations respecting the Resort Municipality of Whistler made by
the Minister of Municipal Affairs,
are validated and confirmed, and no action shall be taken against the
Resort Municipality of Whistler, the council, or its members in
respect of anything done or passed in the purported exercise of a
power or authority under the
Resort Municipality of Whistler Act
or the
Municipal Act
up to the coming into force of this section.
1976-37-1.
Comox-Strathcona Letters Patent
234
The Supplementary Letters Patent issued to the Regional District of
Comox-Strathcona dated May 15, 1978, and Order in Council 1253/78
approved on May 15, 1978, authorizing their issue are confirmed and
validated.
1978-31-6.
East Kootenay Letters Patent
235
Division XI of the Letters Patent of the Regional District of East
Kootenay issued by Supplementary Letters Patent on May 29, 1975 shall
be deemed to be amended in section 3 by the insertion of "except, that
for the year 1978 it shall not exceed the product of 4 mills on the
taxable assessed values referred to," after "all the member
municipalities".
1978-31-6.
City of Vancouver
Refund of taxes paid by Canadian Pacific Limited for Pier B-C
236
The City of Vancouver is authorized to refund an amount not exceeding
$86 116.84 to Canadian Pacific Limited consisting of a portion of the
1980 real property taxes paid in advance by Canadian Pacific Limited
under the terms of a lease dated December 30, 1967 between Her Majesty
in right of Canada as represented by the National Harbours Board,
lessor, and Canadian Pacific Limited, lessee, for Pier B-C and the bed
and foreshore on which it is situated in the City of Vancouver.
1980-39-4.
Pier B-C Development Board exemption from taxation
237
(1)
In subsection (2), "leased property" means the property referred to as
"designated premises" in a lease, or any renewal of it, entered into
on June 30, 1980 between the National Harbours Board, lessor, and Pier
B-C Development Board Ltd., lessee, in respect of the bed and
foreshore in Burrard Inlet in the City of Vancouver on which Pier B-C
is located.
(2)
Where the leased property is occupied by Pier B-C Development Board
Ltd., its successors or assigns, under the lease referred to in
subsection (1), that property is exempt from any tax, rate, duty or
assessment that may, under any enactment, be levied, raised or
assessed against it or any facilities, machinery, equipment or other
property located on it.
1980-39-4.
Extension of borrowing power
238
Notwithstanding section 245 of the
Vancouver Charter
, the period during which the City of Vancouver is authorized to
borrow $1 365 976, which is the unborrowed portion of $3 500 000
authorized to be borrowed for "urban renewal" on September 29, 1965
pursuant to section 245 of the
Vancouver Charter
, is extended to December 31, 1980.
1980-39-4.
City of Kelowna
Bylaw may provide for private sewage collection
239
The Council of the City of Kelowna may, by bylaw approved by the
minister, fix the rates and terms under which a person, other than the
municipality, will provide a sewage collection and disposal system.
1980-39-4.
Regional District of Nanaimo
Validation of payments to Exhibition Park
240
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
and the Letters Patent of the Regional District of Nanaimo, the
payments made by the Regional District of Nanaimo to the City of
Nanaimo on
(a)
September 24, 1974 in the amount of $83 557,
(b)
March 30, 1977 in the amount of $50 000,
(c)
November 28, 1977 in the amount of $50 000, and
(d)
January 21, 1978 in the amount of $50 000,
as part of the annual net cost attributable to the operation and
maintenance of the recreational complex of Exhibition Park, Nanaimo,
under the Letters Patent of the Regional District of Nanaimo, are
validated and confirmed from the dates of the respective payments.
1981-21-68.
City of Prince George
Validation of bylaw
241
Notwithstanding
(a)
a decision of a court to the contrary, made before or after the coming
into force of this section,
(b)
the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, or
(c)
the bylaws of the City of Prince George,
City of Prince George Bylaw No. 3482 shall be deemed not to be invalid
or defective by reason only of non-compliance with section 720 of the
Municipal Act
and City of Prince George Bylaw No. 2532.
1981-21-68.
Not in force
242
[Not in force.]
Local Services Act
Validation of zoning regulations
243
(1)
A regulation purporting or purported to have been made under the
Local Services Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 224, or R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 247, shall be
conclusively deemed to have been validly in force from the time that
it would have been validly in force had any zoning map referred to in
the text of the regulation been
(a)
published in compliance with the
Local Services Act
, and
(b)
filed or deposited with the Registrar of Regulations in compliance
with the
Regulations Act
,
notwithstanding that a requirement referred to in paragraph (a) or (b)
was not met.
(2)
Subsection (1) applies to retroactively validate any regulation
described in that subsection, to the extent provided by that
subsection, notwithstanding any order of any court to the contrary.
1990-59-3.
Ganges, Salt Spring Island
Validation of Letters Patent
244
Notwithstanding
(a)
a decision of a court to the contrary, made before or after the coming
into force of this section, or
(b)
the provisions of the
Municipal Act
,
the Supplementary Letters Patent of the Capital Regional District
dated December 28, 1967, February 12, 1971, March 8, 1972, October 4,
1975, March 3, 1977, March 30, 1978 and October 29, 1980 shall be
deemed not to be invalid or defective by reason only of non-compliance
with section 766 of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 255 or section 767 of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1979, c. 290.
1981-21-68.
City of Port Moody
Bylaw enabling
245
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the council of the City of Port Moody may adopt the bylaws cited as
(a)
"City of Port Moody North Shore Specified Area By-law, 1976 No. 1305,
Amendment By-law No. 1523" given second reading by the council on June
16, 1981, and
(b)
"City of Port Moody Provincial North Shore Services Installation
Agreement Authorization By-law 1981 No. 1524" given second reading by
the council on June 16, 1981.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the council of the City of Port Moody, on the adoption of the bylaws
referred to in subsection (1), is authorized and empowered to do all
things required in those bylaws and required in any agreements, as
amended from time to time, referred to in those bylaws.
1981-21-68.
Validation of land use contract
246
The land use contract between the Cariboo Regional District and 105
Mile Ranch Ltd., registered in the land title office at Kamloops under
No. H17889 on April 18, 1973, is validated and is effective from the
date of its registration and it shall be deemed not to be invalid or
unenforceable by reason only that the approvals, procedures or
adoptions concerning it under section 798A of the
Municipal Act
, R.S.B.C. 1960, c. 255, were not followed.
1982-23-1.
Validation of agreement for waste disposal
247
(1)
Notwithstanding any other enactment or law to the contrary, the City
of Vancouver, the Municipality of Delta and the Greater Vancouver
Sewerage and Drainage District may enter into an agreement respecting
the disposal of waste in the Corporation of Delta substantially in the
form filed with the Deputy Minister of Environment and certified by
the Deputy Minister of Environment as the agreement referred to in
this section.
(2)
Notwithstanding any other enactment or law to the contrary, but in
accordance with the terms of the agreement entered into under
subsection (1),
(a)
the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District may dispose of
waste, and
(b)
the City of Vancouver may receive, deposit, dispose of and store
waste,
on the land described in the agreement as the Burns Bog Landfill Site
and the Supplementary Landfill Site.
1983-20-43; 2023-10-706.
Authorization to levy charge
248
Notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
or any other law to the contrary, the District of Abbotsford may levy
the charges authorized by the District of Abbotsford Bylaws Nos.
682-1982, 683-1982 and 684-1982 on any person who makes a connection
within the extensions of water works, sanitary sewer works and storm
drainage works installed by Mountain Village Developments Ltd. in the
District of Abbotsford.
1983-20-43.
North Vancouver Water District membership
249
(1)
In this section
"city"
means The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver;
"district"
means the Greater Vancouver Water District.
(2)
Notwithstanding the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, the
Municipal Act
or any other enactment,
(a)
the city is empowered, by resolution of its council and agreement with
the district, to become a member of the district,
(b)
when the resolution referred to in paragraph (a) has been passed and
the agreement to become a member is executed by both parties, the city
shall be a member of and is added to the district and has the rights,
duties and obligations of a municipality added to the district under
section 82 of the
Greater Vancouver Water District Act
, and
(c)
the agreement dated as of the 1st day of August, 1983 between the
district and the city concerning, among other things, the transfer of
certain assets from the city to the district and the supply of water
from the district to the city, is validated and confirmed and is
binding on the parties to it.
(3)
Subsection (2) (c) shall be deemed to have come into force on August
1, 1983, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect
on and after that date.
1984-26-82.
Repealed
250
[Repealed 2008-5-90.]
Metchosin validation
251
(1)
The amendment to the Letters Patent of the municipality of the
District of Metchosin made by order of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council 1722/84 is confirmed and validated, effective September 27,
1984.
(2)
The amendment to the Letters Patent of the municipality of the
District of Metchosin authorized by order of the Lieutenant Governor
in Council 538/85 is confirmed and validated, effective at the
commencement of the 1985 taxation year.
1985-75-14.
Colwood validation
252
Section 21 of the Letters Patent of the City of Colwood authorized by
order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council 535/85 is confirmed and
validated.
1985-75-14.
Cariboo Regional District agreement validation
253
(1)
The agreement dated October 31, 1984 between
(a)
the Cariboo Regional District, and
(b)
Weldwood of Canada and Daishowa Marubeni International Limited,
carrying on business under the name of Cariboo Pulp & Paper
Company,
respecting sewage disposal is confirmed and validated and is binding
on the parties to it.
(2)
If, under the agreement, the Cariboo Regional District is required to
indemnify the other parties to the agreement, the Cariboo Regional
District may, without the assent of the electors, adopt a loan
authorization bylaw to meet the cost of the indemnification and may,
by bylaw, allocate the cost to areas of the regional district,
specified in the bylaw, that the regional board considers have
benefited or will benefit from the sewage disposal facility referred
to in the agreement.
(3)
For the purpose of raising the money to pay the cost referred to in
subsection (2), section 674 (3) of the
Municipal Act
applies to the areas specified in the bylaw.
1985-75-14.
Surrey validation
254
(1)
The agreement dated November 28, 1974 between the Corporation of the
District of Surrey and James Henry Keeling is confirmed and validated
and is binding on both parties.
(2)
The indenture dated May 29, 1984 between the Corporation of the
District of Surrey and Orangeville Raceway Ltd. is confirmed and
validated and is binding on both parties.
1985-75-14.
Chetwynd Ice Arena validation
255
The amendments to the Letters Patent of Peace River-Liard Regional
District authorized by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
688/85 are confirmed and validated, effective at the commencement of
the 1984 taxation year.
1985-75-14.
Retroactive effect
255.1
(1)
Sections 251 to 255, brought into force on September 20, 1996 by B.C.
Reg. 259/96, are deemed to have come into force on December 2, 1985
and are retroactive to the extent necessary to give them effect on and
after that date.
(2)
All things done that would have been validly done had sections 251 to
255 in fact been in force on and after December 2, 1985 are
conclusively deemed to have been validly done.
(3)
This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give full force
and effect to its provisions and must not be construed as lacking
retroactive effect in relation to any matter by reason that it makes
no specific reference to that matter.
1997-25-156.
Quesnel sewer agreement validation
256
(1)
The agreement dated January 13, 1986 between
(a)
the City of Quesnel, and
(b)
Weldwood of Canada and Daishowa Marubeni International Limited,
carrying on business under the name of Cariboo Pulp & Paper
Company,
respecting sewage disposal is confirmed and validated and is binding
on the parties to it.
(2)
If, under the agreement, the City of Quesnel is required to indemnify
the other parties to the agreement, the City of Quesnel may, without
the assent of the electors, adopt a loan authorization bylaw to meet
the cost of the indemnification.
1986-20-1.
Kamloops tax bylaw validation
257
(1)
Notwithstanding
(a)
the
Municipal Act
,
(b)
the bylaws of the City of Kamloops, and
(c)
a decision of a court to the contrary, made before or after the coming
into force of this section,
a tax is by this section imposed on each parcel of land as set out in
the Frontage Tax Assessment Rolls prepared before or after the coming
into force of this section by the Clerk of the City of Kamloops with
respect to the Local Improvement Construction By-Law Number 13-133
adopted by the City of Kamloops on or about June 24, 1980, and the
levy of the tax as set out in those Frontage Tax Assessment Rolls
shall be deemed to be valid and effective for the taxation years 1983
through 2003.
(2)
Subsection (1) shall be deemed to have come into force on March 25,
1983, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on
and after that date.
(3)
Notwithstanding this section, where a taxpayer did not pay taxes owing
in respect of the 1985 taxation year in respect of land referred to in
subsection (1), for the purposes of the application of any penalty or
interest to those unpaid taxes, those taxes shall be deemed not to
have been owing in 1985 and shall instead be deemed to be owing as
1986 taxation year taxes, in addition to taxes otherwise payable for
the 1986 taxation year.
1986-20-1.
Richmond park land exchange
258
(1)
Notwithstanding the
Land Title Act
or any other Act,
(a)
Lot 84 of Section 4, Block 4 North, Range 6 West, Plan 53157, New
Westminster District registered in the land title office at New
Westminster under Certificate of Indefeasible Title No. RD55103E, and
(b)
Lot 98 of Section 4, Block 4 North, Range 6 West, Plan 62391, New
Westminster District registered in the land title office at New
Westminster under Certificate of Indefeasible Title No. RD146924E
in the Municipality of Richmond are vested in the Corporation of the
Township of Richmond free from any restriction or trust that the lands
be used only for park purposes as provided for in the deed registered
in the land title office at New Westminster under No. RD55102E.
(2)
The council of the corporation may do all necessary acts and things
required to exchange all or part of the lands for all or part of the
property in the Municipality of Richmond described as Lot 81 of
Sections 3 and 4, Block 4 North, Range 6 West, Plan 50405 Except Part
subdivided by Plan 53157, New Westminster District and registered in
the land title office at New Westminster under Certificates of
Indefeasible Title Nos. Y154521E and Y156115E.
(3)
The titles to the property described in subsection (2) when vested in
the corporation and the title to any property formerly subject to the
trust for park purposes which is not so exchanged shall be recorded as
being subject to the trust for park purposes.
1986-20-1.
Victoria Convention Centre lease exemption
259
(1)
In this section
"convention centre property"
means all or any part of the land and improvements in the City of
Victoria, Capital Assessment Area, legally described as Lot A of Lots
171, 207, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 228 and 1270-B, Victoria
City and of Section 6, Victoria District, Plan 23703 which may be
leased to The Corporation of the City of Victoria;
"land"
and
"improvements"
have the same meaning as they have in the
Assessment Act
.
(2)
Convention centre property that is leased to The Corporation of the
City of Victoria for any purpose directly or indirectly related to the
construction or operation of a convention centre, including retail
sales establishments and parking areas, is exempt from real property
taxation under any Act and, more particularly, is exempt from real
property taxation under the following Acts, for as long as the
property is leased to the City:
(a)
Assessment Authority Act
;
(b)
British Columbia Transit Act
;
(c)
Education (Interim) Finance Act
;
(d)
Hospital District Act
;
(e)
Library Act
;
(f)
Municipal Act
;
(g)
Municipal Finance Authority Act
;
(h)
Park (Regional) Act
.
1986-16-25.
Kelowna Convention Centre lease exemption
260
(1)
In this section
"convention centre property"
means all or part of the land and improvements in the City of Kelowna,
Kelowna Assessment Area, legally described as Lots A and B of Plan
14453, Section 26, Township 19, O.D.Y.D. which may be leased to the
City of Kelowna;
"land"
and
"improvements"
have the same meaning as they have in the
Assessment Act
.
(2)
Convention centre property that is leased to the City of Kelowna for
any purpose directly or indirectly related to the construction or
operation of a convention centre, including retail sales
establishments and parking areas, is exempt from real property
taxation under any Act and, more particularly, is exempt from real
property taxation under the following Acts, for as long as the
property is leased to the City:
(a)
Assessment Authority Act
;
(b)
British Columbia Transit Act
;
(c)
Education (Interim) Finance Act
;
(d)
Hospital District Act
;
(e)
Library Act
;
(f)
Municipal Act
;
(g)
Municipal Finance Authority Act
;
(h)
Park (Regional) Act
.
1986-16-25.
Powell River tax refund
261
For the purpose of assisting the District of Powell River to refund to
MacMillan Bloedel Limited money paid by way of taxes on the Powell
River Pulp and Paper Mill,
(a)
the Minister of Finance may, out of the consolidated revenue fund,
make a loan to the District of Powell River on the terms and
conditions the Minister of Finance thinks fit, and
(b)
the District of Powell River may, notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
, enter into
(i)
an agreement with the Minister of Finance for the repayment, over a
term of years, of the loan made under paragraph (a), and
(ii)
an agreement with MacMillan Bloedel Limited for the payment, over a
term not exceeding 10 years and with interest at a rate to be agreed
upon, of the balance of the refund remaining unpaid after payment to
MacMillan Bloedel Limited of the proceeds of the loan made under
paragraph (a) and of an amount from existing reserve funds of the
District.
1986-16-25; 2023-10-707.
Port Moody bylaw enabling and validation
262
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the adoption by the council of the City of Port Moody of the bylaws
cited as
(a)
"A by-law of the City of Port Moody to authorize the execution of an
agreement with Carma Developers Ltd. By-law, 1986, No. 1819", and
(b)
"A by-law of the City of Port Moody to authorize the execution of an
agreement with the Province of British Columbia By-law, 1986, No.
1820"
and the bylaws, themselves, are confirmed and validated from the date
of the adoption.
(2)
Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Municipal Act
, the council of the City of Port Moody is authorized and empowered to
do all things required and enabled by the bylaws referred to in
subsection (1) and by any agreements, as amended from time to time,
referred to in those bylaws.
(3)
Notwithstanding the
Land Title Act
and the
Municipal Act
, the covenants entered into by the parties to the agreements referred
to in subsection (2) that in any way concern land or a building on or
to be erected on land, shall be conclusively deemed for the purposes
of section 215 of the
Land Title Act
, to be covenants in respect of the use of land or the use of a
building on or to be erected on land.
1987-42-82.
Kitimat gas tax validation
263
(1)
Pacific Northern Gas Ltd. shall pay to the District of Kitimat a tax
equal to 1% of the amount received by it for gas sold by it to the
British Columbia Gas Corporation for resale to Ocelot Industries
Limited or any of its subsidiaries for consumption by Ocelot
Industries Limited or any of its subsidiaries within Kitimat during
the years 1982 to 1985 inclusive.
(2)
The tax imposed by subsection (1) may be collected as though it had
been valid under section 407 (2) of the
Municipal Act
.
1987-43-59.
Central Kootenay — Enabling
264
(1)
The Regional District of Central Kootenay is empowered to carry out by
itself or its agents the function of garbage disposal by any method of
waste reduction, including the application of heat, and for this
purpose may, subject to subsection (2), enter into and become bound by
an agreement to finance, install and operate for a period of not more
than 20 years an incineration system relating to that function for
those member municipalities participating in it.
(2)
The requirements imposed on a regional board by section 767 (4) of the
Municipal Act
do not apply in respect of the function conferred by subsection (1),
but the agreement referred to in that subsection has no effect until
approved by the minister.
1987-59-15; 1989-31-13.
Elkford and Sparwood tax refunds
265
For the purpose of assisting the District of Elkford and the District
of Sparwood to refund money erroneously paid by way of taxes,
(a)
the Minister of Finance may, out of the consolidated revenue fund,
make loans to each of them on the terms and conditions the Minister of
Finance thinks fit, and
(b)
each of them may, notwithstanding the
Municipal Act
, enter into an agreement with the Minister of Finance and Corporate
Relations for the repayment, over a term of years, of the loan made
under paragraph (a).
1987-60-19; 2023-10-708.
Burnaby Official Community Plan validation
266
Notwithstanding section 187 of this Act and section 296 of the
Municipal Act
, the Official Community Plan Bylaw No. 8873 of the Corporation of the
District of Burnaby is confirmed and validated.
1988-49-1
Revelstoke dredging borrowing validation
267
Notwithstanding section 320 of the
Municipal Act
, the agreement dated November 23, 1987 between the City of Revelstoke
and the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority, providing for
borrowing to a maximum of $200 000 for the purposes of dredging the
Illecillewaet River, is confirmed and validated and is binding on the
parties to it.
1988-49-1
G.V.R.D. coordinated emergency telephone system
268
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by supplementary letters
patent, authorize the Greater Vancouver Regional District to enter
into agreements with specified municipalities outside its boundaries
under which the district may provide coordinated emergency telephone
number services to those municipalities.
1988-49-1
Prince George water rates validation
269
(1)
Notwithstanding
(a)
the
Municipal Act
,
(b)
the bylaws of the City of Prince George, or
(c)
a decision of a court to the contrary made before or after the coming
into force of this section,
the City of Prince George is authorized to provide a water supply
system and to impose taxes, rates and charges in respect of that
system in accordance with the bylaw cited as "Specified Area Water
Services Blackburn — Airport Hill Bylaw No. 2968, 1976" given third
reading by the City of Prince George on December 28, 1976.
(2)
Subsection (1) shall be deemed to have come into force on December 28,
1976, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on
and after that date.
(3)
A tax, rate or charge that would have been validly collected had Bylaw
No. 2968 been in force at the time it was collected shall be deemed to
have been validly collected as though the bylaw referred to in
subsection (1) were in force at that time.
1988-49-1.
Fort Nelson-Liard and Peace River Regional Districts validation
270
(1)
The following are confirmed and validated, effective October 31, 1987:
(a)
the Letters Patent of the Fort Nelson-Liard Regional District and of
the Peace River Regional District authorized by order of the
Lieutenant Governor in Council 2123/87;
(b)
the amendments to the Letters Patent of the Town of Fort Nelson
authorized by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council 2124/87;
(c)
the Letters Patent of the Fort Nelson-Liard Regional Hospital District
authorized by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council 2283/87;
(d)
the Supplementary Letters Patent of the Peace River Regional Hospital
District authorized by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
2284/87.
(2)
Appendix E of the Letters Patent of the Fort Nelson-Liard Regional
District is amended so that Division XXII - Solid Waste Disposal -
applies to Areas A and B.
(3)
Subsections (1) and (2) shall be deemed to have come into force on
October 31, 1987 and are retroactive to the extent necessary to give
them effect on and after that date.
1988-49-1.
Esquimalt tax rate amendment validation
271
(1)
Notwithstanding section 273 of the
Municipal Act
, the District of Esquimalt may adopt the bylaw cited as "Tax Rates
Bylaw, 1987, Amendment Bylaw (No. 1), 1988, No. 1882" given third
reading on March 21, 1988.
(2)
The tax rates imposed under the bylaw referred to in subsection (1)
shall be conclusively deemed to have been validly imposed effective
January 1, 1987.
1988-49-1
Tumbler Ridge — validation of loan and authority to write off debt
272
Notwithstanding section 292 of the
Municipal Act
, the provision of the agreement dated May 31, 1983 among The District
of Tumbler Ridge, Northland Utilities (B.C.) Limited and Quintette
Coal Limited by which the District of Tumbler Ridge agreed to provide
a refundable financial contribution to Northland Utilities (B.C.)
Limited is confirmed and validated, and the District of Tumbler Ridge
is authorized to write off all or part of the financial contribution
made by the District under that agreement.
1988-46-42.
Okanagan-Similkameen Bylaw No. 908 validation
273
(1)
The bylaw known as "H3 Specified Area Establishment and Loan
Authorization Bylaw No. 908, 1986" ("Bylaw No. 908") adopted on
December 30, 1986 by the board of the Okanagan-Similkameen Regional
District is conclusively deemed to have been
(a)
validly adopted in all respects on that date, and
(b)
in force since it was adopted on that date
as a bylaw made under the authority of section 770 (1) of the
Municipal Act
, notwithstanding that the bylaw may not have been read, approved and
adopted in conformity with the
Municipal Act
or with any condition with respect to the reading, approval and
adoption of the bylaw contained in the
Municipal Act
.
(2)
Bylaw No. 908 shall be conclusively deemed to
(a)
authorize and empower the board of the Okanagan-Similkameen Regional
District to establish an electrical service by means of an extension
to existing electric power lines of the British Columbia Hydro and
Power Authority in the manner that the electrical service has been
provided subsequent to the adoption of Bylaw No. 908,
(b)
authorize borrowing, on the credit of the regional district, of a sum
not exceeding $650 000, and
(c)
require owners of lands located within electoral area H of the
Okanagan-Similkameen Regional District to bear the costs of providing
the electrical service in the manner specified in section 2 of Bylaw
No. 908.
(3)
The validation provisions of subsections (1) and (2) apply
notwithstanding any order of any court respecting Bylaw No. 908 and
its validity.
(4)
All acts taken by the regional district or any director, officer or
employee of the regional district under or in pursuance of the bylaw,
and all contracts, debentures and other things done under or in
pursuance of the bylaw, including those things authorized, empowered
or required under subsection (2), shall be conclusively deemed to have
been taken, done, authorized, empowered or required as though Bylaw
No. 908 were validly in force at the time they were taken, done,
authorized, empowered or required notwithstanding any order of any
court to the contrary.
(5)
The board may, by resolution, impose a cost sharing formula that
apportions the costs, both within the specified area covered by Bylaw
No. 908 and throughout the Okanagan-Similkameen Regional District
generally, to cover the cost of providing the electrical service
provided under Bylaw No. 908.
(6)
A resolution under subsection (5) shall be approved by the Minister of
Municipal Affairs, but no other approval or requirement under Part 24
of the
Municipal Act
or otherwise is required for the formula to take effect.
(7)
Where there is an inconsistency between the formula under subsection
(5) and the cost sharing mechanism in Bylaw No. 908, the formula
prevails.
1988-50-1; 1989-31-14.
Validation of specified area bylaws
274
(1)
Notwithstanding that a regional district does not have a power
conferred by letters patent to provide a work or service, a bylaw of a
regional district intended to establish a specified area for the
provision of that work or service, that would have been validly
adopted had the regional district been a district municipality, is
conclusively deemed to have been validly adopted on the date of its
adoption and to have been in force since that date.
(2)
Everything done that would have been validly done had the bylaw
referred to in subsection (1) been validly adopted on the date it was
adopted shall be conclusively deemed to have been validly done.
(3)
This section is retroactive to the extent necessary to give full force
and effect to its provisions and shall not be construed as lacking
retroactive effect in relation to any matter by reason that it makes
no specific reference to that matter.
1989-59-29.
Cariboo and Thompson-Nicola joint library system
275
(1)
Notwithstanding section 797 of the
Municipal Act
,
(a)
the agreement dated September 8, 1988 between the Province and the
Cariboo Regional District providing for borrowing from the Province to
a maximum outstanding amount of $460 000, and
(b)
the agreement dated September 8, 1988 between the Province and the
Thompson-Nicola Regional District providing for borrowing from the
Province to a maximum outstanding amount of $840 000,
for the purposes of the Cariboo Thompson-Nicola joint library system,
are confirmed and validated and are binding on the parties to them.
(2)
Orders of the Lieutenant Governor in Council 1614/88 and 1615/88,
authorizing the borrowing referred to in subsection (1), are confirmed
and validated effective September 1, 1988.
(3)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on September 1,
1988 and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on
and after that date.
1989-31-15.
Regional District of Nanaimo solid waste management
276
(1)
Notwithstanding section 797 of the
Municipal Act
, the Regional District of Nanaimo may, for the purposes of the
function of solid waste management conferred by the issue of
supplementary letters patent authorized by order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council 258/89, enter into agreements, for terms of not
more than 20 years, respecting the supply and operation of a solid
waste recovery processing plant relating to that function.
(2)
An agreement under subsection (1) has no effect unless it is approved
by the minister.
1989-31-15.
City of Kelowna Curling Club lease
277
Notwithstanding section 679 (2) of the
Municipal Act
, the City of Kelowna may, without the assent of the electors, enter
into and become bound by an agreement to amend and extend for a
further 12 year period the existing lease dated November 29, 1977
between the City of Kelowna and the Kelowna Curling Club.
1989-31-15.
Town of Smithers loan bylaw validation
278
(1)
Notwithstanding sections 328 and 330 of the
Municipal Act
, the adoption on September 13, 1988 by the council of the Town of
Smithers of the loan authorization bylaw cited as "Water Mainline Loan
Authorization Bylaw No. 824, 1988" and the bylaw itself are confirmed
and validated from the date of adoption.
(2)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on September 13,
1988 and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on
and after that date.
1989-31-15.
Town of View Royal incorporation validation
279
(1)
Notwithstanding sections 6 and 7 of the
Municipal Act
, the incorporation of the Town of View Royal and the Letters Patent
of the Town of View Royal, authorized by order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council 1909/88, are confirmed and validated effective
October 15, 1988.
(2)
All things done that would have been validly done had the Town of View
Royal been validly incorporated at the time they were done shall be
conclusively deemed to have been done with full legal capacity, and
all legal consequences of those actions shall be conclusively deemed
to be those that would have resulted had the Town of View Royal been
validly incorporated at the time they were taken.
(3)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on October 15,
1988 and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give full force and
effect to its provisions on and after that date and shall not be
construed as lacking retroactive effect in relation to any matter by
reason that it makes no specific reference to that matter.
1989-31-15.
Pacific Northern Gas franchise agreement
280
Notwithstanding section 646 of the
Municipal Act
, the following municipalities may, by bylaw adopted without the
assent of the electors, enter into an exclusive or limited franchise
agreement with Pacific Northern Gas Ltd. for a term not exceeding 21
years to supply gas service to the residents of the municipality:
(a)
the District of Vanderhoof;
(b)
the Village of Burns Lake;
(c)
the District of Houston;
(d)
the Town of Smithers;
(e)
the City of Terrace;
(f)
the District of Kitimat;
(g)
the City of Prince Rupert.
1989-32-9.
City of Port Moody industrial sewer charges
281
(1)
Notwithstanding section 612 (2) of the
Municipal Act
, the adoption on December 12, 1988 by the council of the City of Port
Moody of the bylaw cited as "Bylaw No. 1948 - A Bylaw of the City of
Port Moody to Impose Charges for the Use of the Sanitary Sewer
System", and the bylaw itself, establishing sewerage charges for
industrial users on the basis of the volume of effluent discharged by
the user, are confirmed and validated from the date of adoption.
(2)
Subsection (1) shall be deemed to have come into force on December 12,
1988 and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on
and after that date.
(3)
A charge that would have been validly collected had the bylaw referred
to in subsection (1) been in force at the time it was collected shall
be deemed to have been validly collected as though the bylaw were in
force at that time.
1989-32-9.
Vancouver — validation of bylaw
282
(1)
By-law No. 6517 of the Council of the City of Vancouver and Order in
Council No. 978/89 approving that by-law are confirmed and validated.
(2)
Subsection (1) shall be deemed to have come into force on July 4, 1989
and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it effect on and
after that date.
1989-73-4.
Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board
283
(1)
In this section
"destructive insect pests"
means
(a)
the insect pest known commonly as the codling moth and scientifically
as Cydia pomonella, and
(b)
other species of insect pests prescribed by regulation under
subsection (8) (a);
"participating regional districts"
means the regional districts which establish a sterile insect release
service under subsection (2);
"sterile insect release board"
means the Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release Board established
under subsection (2);
"sterile insect release service"
means a service provided under subsection (2) to control destructive
insect pests by means of a program that includes the release of
sterile insects.
(2)
The Regional Districts of
(a)
Okanagan-Similkameen,
(b)
Central Okanagan,
(c)
North Okanagan,
(d)
Columbia-Shuswap, and
(e)
Central Kootenay
may establish and operate, by bylaw, an extended service of sterile
insect release through participation with other regional districts
empowered under this subsection in the establishment and operation of
a board to be known as the Okanagan-Kootenay Sterile Insect Release
Board that, as agent for the participating regional districts, will
provide the sterile insect release service.
(3)
Notwithstanding that the establishment of a sterile insect release
service requires the borrowing of money or that a proposed
participating area for a sterile insect release service does not
include all of a municipality or electoral area, assent of the
electors in a proposed participating area may be waived and consent
given on behalf of those electors,
(a)
in the case of a proposed municipal participating area, in accordance
with section 799 of the
Municipal Act
, and
(b)
in the case of a proposed electoral participating area, in accordance
with section 800 of the
Municipal Act
.
(4)
Notwithstanding section 813.1 (3) of the
Municipal Act
, the regional district boards that establish a sterile insect release
service may, by loan authorization bylaws adopted without assent of
the electors, borrow amounts for the purposes of the service that, in
the aggregate for those regional districts, do not exceed $3.5
million.
(5)
The sterile insect release board shall, when established by the
participating regional districts, constitute a corporation to which,
subject to subsection (6), the
Company Act
does not apply.
(6)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by order, direct that one or
more provisions of the
Company Act
apply to the sterile insect release board and, where this is done,
those provisions apply accordingly.
(7)
The sterile insect release board shall not
(a)
borrow money, or
(b)
without the approval of the participating regional districts, incur
liabilities.
(8)
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may, by regulation,
(a)
prescribe species of destructive insect pests in respect of which a
sterile insect release service may be provided,
(b)
provide that
(i)
the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries,
(ii)
the Minister of Agriculture (Canada), and
(iii)
the British Columbia Fruit Growers' Association
may appoint one or more persons as non-voting members of the sterile
insect release board,
(c)
prescribe the cost recovery mechanism by which the costs of providing
a sterile insect release service shall be recovered, including,
notwithstanding section 482 of the
Municipal Act
, authorizing the participating regional districts to recover a
portion of those costs by means of a parcel tax that may vary
according to
(i)
the size of the parcel,
(ii)
the type of plants growing or capable of growing on the parcel, and
(iii)
the quantity of specific kinds of plants growing on the parcel,
(d)
make special provisions respecting
(i)
expenditures for a sterile insect release service,
(ii)
the basis on which the costs of providing a sterile insect release
service through the agency of the sterile insect release board shall
be apportioned among the participating regional districts, and
(iii)
other matters in relation to a sterile insect release service that the
Lieutenant Governor in Council considers necessary or advisable,
(e)
require owners and occupiers of real property to clear their property
of destructive insect pests and to prevent infestation of their
property by destructive insect pests, and
(f)
empower the sterile insect release board, by its employees or other
persons, to enter on real property at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner
(i)
to effect the release of sterile insects, and
(ii)
in cases where an owner or occupier of real property has failed to
comply with a requirement for clearing or prevention of infestation
referred to in paragraph (e), to effect the clearing or prevention, at
the expense of the person who has failed to comply, by any means
considered advisable by the sterile insect release board, including
the application of insecticides and other chemicals and the removal
and destruction of plants which are or which are likely to be subject
to infestation by destructive insect pests.
(9)
The sterile insect release board
(a)
may enforce a regulation under subsection (8) (e) as if the regulation
were a bylaw of a regional district, and
(b)
for the purposes of paragraph (a), has all the power and authority of
a regional district board under sections 308 to 310 and 750 of the
Municipal Act
and those sections, as they apply to enforcement of a bylaw, apply to
the enforcement of a regulation under subsection (8) (e).
(10)
Where the sterile insect release board effects clearing or prevention
of infestation on property under the authority of a regulation under
subsection (8) (f) (ii),
(a)
the costs of the clearing or prevention, if unpaid by the person at
whose expense the work was done on or before December 31 in the year
that the work was done, shall be added to and form part of the taxes
payable on the property as taxes in arrear, and
(b)
no compensation shall be payable by the sterile insect release board
for plants or plant materials removed or destroyed under that
authority.
(11)
For the purposes of establishing and operating a sterile insect
release service in 1989, the participating regional districts may, by
bylaw adopted without assent of the electors,
(a)
notwithstanding section 807.1 of the
Municipal Act
, make expenditures for the service, and
(b)
notwithstanding section 812 (1) of the
Municipal Act
, borrow money required for expenditures authorized under paragraph
(a).
(12)
Where money is borrowed under the authority of subsection (11) (b), it
shall be included with the anticipated costs relating to the sterile
insect release service in 1990 and, when recovered with those costs,
shall be repaid.
1989-73-4; 1990-59-4.
Whistler Convention Centre and Whistler Golf Course
284
(1)
The Resort Municipality of Whistler is empowered to enter into an
agreement with the Whistler Resort Association for a term of 20 years,
extendable from time to time provided the total term does not extend
beyond 100 years after the date on which the municipality first enters
into an agreement under this section, under which the municipality may
be obligated to remit to the Whistler Resort Association, for the
purposes of financing the operation of the Whistler Convention Centre
and the Whistler Golf Course by the Whistler Resort Association, a
portion of the hotel room tax that the municipality receives under the
Hotel Room Tax Act
.
(2)
Notwithstanding section 410 of the
Municipal Act
, the following land and improvements that comprise the Whistler
Convention Centre and the Whistler Golf Course and that are occupied
by the Whistler Resort Association as tenant under an existing lease
are exempt from taxation under any enactment:
(a)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 007-449-917, Lot B,
District Lot 1755, Plan 16516;
(b)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 007-317-859, Block
A, except part in Plan 21220, District Lot 4751, Plan 17369;
(c)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 007-195-770, Block
P, except part in Reference Plan 21220, District Lot 4750, Plan 18266;
(d)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 015-223-256, Block
E, District Lot 4752;
(e)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 015-223-221, Block
A, District Lot 3877;
(f)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 003-025-136, Lot
62, District Lot 3020, Plan 20689;
(g)
Resort Municipality of Whistler, Parcel Identifier 007-120-184, Lot
40, except portions in Plans 21429 and 22561, District Lot 1902, Plan
18662.
1989-73-4; 1990-59-5.
[This is an unofficial consolidation of the Municipalities Enabling
and Validating Act, prepared August 12, 2016 for convenience only.
This consolidation includes all amendments in force as of that date.]
