Despite the above date, the schedule to the act, including the map of Nisg̱a'a lands and the appendices, is current to may 11, 2000. see "amending agreements" for amendments to the schedule.
Nisg̱a'a final agreement act [sbc 1999] chapter 2 Assented to april 26, 1999 Preamble
Whereas the reconciliation between the prior presence of aboriginal Peoples and the assertion of sovereignty by the crown is of Significant social and economic importance to all british columbians; And whereas canadian courts have stated that this reconciliation is Best achieved through negotiation and agreement, rather than through Litigation or conflict; And whereas the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia have Negotiated the nisg̱a'a final agreement to achieve this reconciliation, And to establish a new relationship among them; And whereas the nisg̱a'a final agreement requires that british columbia Enact settlement legislation to give effect to the nisg̱a'a final Agreement;
Therefore her majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative assembly of the province of british columbia, enacts as Follows:
Definition
1 (1) In this act, "nisg̱a'a final agreement" Means the nisg̱a'a final agreement among the nisg̱a'a nation, her Majesty the queen in right of canada and her majesty the queen in Right of british columbia set out in the schedule and includes (a) That agreement as it is given effect by an act of canada, and (b) Amendments made in accordance with that agreement.
(2) If a word or expression used in this act is defined in the nisg̱a'a Final agreement, the word or expression has the same meaning in this Act as in the nisg̱a'a final agreement, unless the context requires Otherwise.
Part 1 — settlement legislation Treaty and land claims agreement 2 The nisg̱a'a final agreement is a treaty and a land claims agreement Within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
Nisg̱a'a final agreement 3 (1) The nisg̱a'a final agreement is approved, given effect, declared valid And has the force of law.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person or body has the powers, Rights, privileges and benefits conferred on the person or body by the Nisg̱a'a final agreement and must perform the duties and is subject to The liabilities imposed on the person or body by the nisg̱a'a final Agreement.
(3) Nothing in this act that makes provision for a matter that is already Provided for in the nisg̱a'a final agreement in any way limits this Section.
Authorization to sign the nisg̱a'a final agreement 4 The lieutenant governor in council may authorize a member of the Executive council to sign the nisg̱a'a final agreement.
Nisg̱a'a final agreement binding and can be relied on 5 The nisg̱a'a final agreement is binding on, and can be relied on by, All persons.
Nisg̱a'a nation's ownership of lands 6 (1) [repealed 2014-32-3.] (2) The nisg̱a'a nation owns the estate in fee simple, as set out in the Lands chapter of the nisg̱a'a final agreement, in the following lands:
(a) The nisg̱a'a lands identified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the lands Chapter of the nisg̱a'a final agreement; (b) Category a lands and category b lands.
Nisg̱a'a nation taxation agreement 6.1 (1) In this section, "taxation agreement" Means the taxation agreement, referred to in paragraphs 21 to 23 of The taxation chapter of the nisg̱a'a final agreement, which agreement Was tabled in the legislative assembly on november 30, 1998, and Includes an amendment to the taxation agreement, made in accordance With the terms of the taxation agreement, if the amending agreement Setting out the amendment (a) Is substantially in the form approved by the lieutenant governor in Council, and (b) Has been signed by the parties and published under subsection (5).
(2) The taxation agreement continues in effect and remains valid and its Provisions have the force of law during the period they are in effect.
(3) The minister charged with the administration of the Financial administration act Is authorized to enter into an agreement amending the taxation Agreement and may sign the amending agreement before or after it has Been approved by the lieutenant governor in council.
(4) As provided in paragraphs 21 and 22 of the taxation chapter of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement, the taxation agreement does not form part of The nisg̱a'a final agreement and is not a treaty or land claims Agreement within the meaning of section 25 or 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
(5) The minister must publish in the gazette the taxation agreement and Any agreement amending the taxation agreement.
Harvest agreement 7 (1) The minister responsible for fisheries has the authority, on behalf of Her majesty the queen in right of british columbia, to enter into the Harvest agreement described in the fisheries chapter of the nisg̱a'a Final agreement.
(2) The harvest agreement does not form part of the nisg̱a'a final Agreement and it is not a treaty or land claims agreement within the Meaning of section 25 or 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
Judicial or administrative proceedings 8 (1) If, in any judicial or administrative proceeding, an issue arises in Respect of (a) The interpretation or validity of the nisg̱a'a final agreement, or (b) The validity or applicability of any settlement legislation or any Nisg̱a'a law The issue must not be decided until the party to the proceeding Raising the issue has properly served notice on the attorney general Of british columbia, the attorney general of canada and the nisg̱a'a Lisims government.
(2) The notice required under subsection (1) must (a) Describe the judicial or administrative proceeding in which the issue Arises,
(b) State whether the issue arises in respect of the matters referred to In subsection (1) (a) or (b) or both, (c) State the day on which the issue is to be argued, (d) Give particulars necessary to show the point to be argued, and (e) Be served at least 14 days before the day of argument unless the court Or tribunal authorizes a shorter notice.
(3) In any judicial or administrative proceeding to which subsection (1) Applies, the attorney general of british columbia, the attorney General of canada and the nisg̱a'a lisims government may appear and Participate in the proceeding as parties with the same rights as any Other party to the proceeding.
(4) The
Judicial review procedure act Applies to an application for judicial review under the following Provisions of the nisg̱a'a final agreement as if the decision under Review were made pursuant to a statutory power of decision as defined In that act:
(a) Paragraph 17 of the nisg̱a'a government chapter; (b) Paragraph 26 of the eligibility and enrolment chapter.
(5) [repealed 2014-32-3.] Power to make orders and regulations 9 The lieutenant governor in council may make orders and regulations That the lieutenant governor in council considers necessary or Advisable for the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement.
Authorization to enter into agreements 10 (1) The lieutenant governor in council may authorize any member of the Executive council, on behalf of her majesty the queen in right of British columbia, to enter into an agreement that is contemplated by The nisg̱a'a final agreement.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the harvest agreement referred to in Section 7 or to agreements referred to in section 43 of the Environmental assessment act .
Part 2 — real property taxation Definitions for part 10.01 In this part:
"improvements" Has the same meaning as in the Assessment act ; "land" Has the same meaning as in the Assessment act ; "nisg̱a'a land registry" Means a land registry that is part of the land title or land registry System established by the nisg̱a'a lisims government under Paragraph 50 of the nisg̱a'a government chapter of the nisg̱a'a Final agreement; "non-citizen" Means a person who is not a nisg̱a'a citizen; "property tax agreement" Means the real property tax co-ordination agreement, dated for Reference july 31, 2014, between her majesty the queen in right of the Province of british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation, including Schedules a and b attached to the real property tax co-ordination Agreement and any amendments to the real property tax co-ordination Agreement that are made in accordance with its terms and published Under section 10.07; "provincial requisitioning authority" Has the same meaning as in the property tax agreement; "real property" Means land or improvements, or both, located within nisg̱a'a lands or An interest in land or improvements, or both, located within nisg̱a'a Lands;
"real property taxes" Means taxes imposed on the basis of the value of real property.
Authority to impose tax on non-citizen owners or occupiers and provide Exemptions
10.02 Without limiting any provision of this act, the nisg̱a'a lisims Government may, by law, in accordance with the terms of the property Tax agreement, (a) Impose real property taxes on non-citizens, in respect of their Interests in real property, and (b) Provide exemptions from those real property taxes.
Exemptions from provincial taxation 10.03 Interests in real property are exempt from taxes under (a) The
School act , and (b) Except to the extent provided in article 5.8 of the property tax Agreement, the Taxation (rural area) act .
Authority to provide real property tax exemptions 10.031 (1) The nisg̱a'a lisims government may, by law, provide exemptions for Nisg̱a'a citizens from real property taxes imposed or collected by the Government or by the nisg̱a'a lisims government in relation to the Ownership or occupation of real property.
(2) A law enacted under subsection (1) does not apply in respect of real Property taxes imposed for a taxation year unless the law comes into Force on or before october 31 in the preceding calendar year.
Administration fees 10.04 If the nisg̱a'a lisims government imposes a real property tax Specifically for the purpose of collecting the amount required to pay A requisition from a provincial requisitioning authority and, under The enactment authorizing the requisition, if the requisition were Received by a municipality, the municipality would be entitled to an Administration fee for collecting tax to pay the requisition, the Nisg̱a'a lisims government is entitled to an administration fee in an Amount determined as if the requisition had been received by a Municipality.
Excess home owner grants 10.05 In accordance with the property tax agreement, the minister charged With the administration of the Financial administration act May pay to the nisg̱a'a nation for a taxation year, from amounts Appropriated for the purpose, the amount described as the "excess Amount" in article 12.3 of the property tax agreement.
Application of Municipal finance authority act 10.06 The
Municipal finance authority act Does not apply in relation to nisg̱a'a lands.
Publication of property tax agreement 10.07 The minister must publish in the gazette (a) The property tax agreement, and any amendment to it, and (b) If the property tax agreement is terminated in accordance with its Terms, notice of the termination.
Application of Offence act 10.08 Section 5 of the Offence act Does not apply in relation to this part.
Spent
11-69 [consequential amendments. spent. 1999-2-11 to 69.] Commencement
70 This act, except section 4, comes into force by regulation of the Lieutenant governor in council.
Schedule to nisg̱a'a final agreement act Table of contents Preamble
Chapter 1 — definitions Chapter 2 — general provisions Nature of agreement Agreement is binding Representation and warranty Nisg̱a'a culture and language Constitution of canada Application of federal and provincial laws Other rights, benefits, and programs Judicial determinations in respect of validity Full and final settlement Nisg̱a'a section 35 rights Modification
Release
Consultation
Provincial law Indemnities
Other aboriginal people Amendment provisions Freedom of information and privacy Obligation to negotiate Conflict and inconsistency Entire agreement Interpretation
No implied waiver Time of the essence Assignment
Enurement
Notice
Chapter 3 — lands Nisg̱a'a lands Mineral resources Submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Site remediation Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands outside nisg̱a'a lands Federal acquisition of interests in nisg̱a'a lands and nisg̱a'a Fee simple lands Initial surveys Commercial recreation tenure Heritage sites and key geographic features Parks and ecological reserve Water volumes Schedule a — boundary resolution Schedule b — list of sites Schedule c — water volumes Chapter 4 — land title Federal title legislation Provincial torrens system Application for indefeasible title Land title fees Nisg̱a'a certificate Registration of indefeasible title Deprivation of estate Cancellation of indefeasible title Application of provincial torrens system Chapter 5 — forest resources Definitions
Ownership of resources Applicable laws and standards Timber harvesting Forest fires and forest health Timber processing Economic considerations Forest resources outside nisg̱a'a lands Chapter 6 — access Nisg̱a'a public lands Navigable waters Crown access to nisg̱a'a lands Nisg̱a'a access to other lands Access to fee simple properties Chapter 7 — roads and rights of way Rights of way general Nisg̱a'a highway Secondary provincial roads Crown roads Nisg̱a'a roads general Private roads Utilities general Schedule a — nisg̱a'a highway corridor Schedule b — gravel materials pits on nisg̱a'a lands Chapter 8 — fisheries General
Salmon
Enhancement
Steelhead
Non-salmon species and aquatic plants Fisheries management Lisims fisheries conservation trust Participation in the general commercial fishery Herring roe-on-kelp study International arrangements Processing facilities Schedule a — nisg̱a'a fish allocations for salmon Schedule b — overages and underages Schedule c — system of salmon equivalencies Schedule d — determination of the nisg̱a'a fish allocation of Steelhead
Schedule e — nisg̱a'a fish allocations of non-salmon species or Aquatic plants Schedule f — provisional schedule of lisims fisheries Conservation trust settlement amounts Schedule g — provisional schedule of funding under paragraph 111 Of the fisheries chapter Chapter 9 — wildlife and migratory birds General
Nass wildlife area Designated species Entitlements and allocations Wildlife management Trade, barter, and sale of wildlife Trapping
Guiding
Migratory birds Other
Schedule a — nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations of designated species Schedule b — unregistered traplines wholly or partially on Nisg̱a'a lands on the effective date Schedule c — traplines wholly outside nisg̱a'a lands held by Nisg̱a'a citizens Schedule d — streams in nisg̱a'a angling guide licence Chapter 10 — environmental assessment and protection Environmental assessment Environmental protection Chapter 11 — nisg̱a'a government Self-government Recognition of nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village Governments
Legal status and capacity Nisg̱a'a constitution Nisg̱a'a government structure Elections
Appeal and review of administrative decisions Register of laws Relations with individuals who are not nisg̱a'a citizens Transitional provisions Legislative jurisdiction and authority Emergency preparedness Other matters Nisg̱a'a government liability Other provinces and territories Chapter 12 — administration of justice Police services Community correction services Nisg̱a'a court Review
Chapter 13 —
Indian act Transition
General
Continuation of Indian act By-laws Status of bands and transfer of band assets Nisg̱a'a tribal council Chapter 14 — capital transfer and negotiation loan repayment Capital transfer Negotiation loan repayment Schedule a — provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts Schedule b — loan repayment amounts Prepayments
Chapter 15 — fiscal relations Definitions
Interpretation
Fiscal financing agreements Own source revenue agreements Own source revenue administration Chapter 16 — taxation Direct taxation Other taxation and tax administration agreements Section 87 exemption Remission orders Valuation time Nisg̱a'a lands Nisg̱a'a capital Taxation agreement Chapter 17 — cultural artifacts and heritage General
Return of nisg̱a'a artifacts Access to other collections Protection of heritage sites Other nisg̱a'a artifacts Human remains Chapter 18 — local and regional government relationships Chapter 19 — dispute resolution Definitions
General
Scope: when this chapter applies to a disagreement Disagreements to go through stages Stage one: collaborative negotiations Stage two: facilitated processes Negotiating conditions Settlement agreement Stage three: adjudication — arbitration Effect of arbitral award Application of legislation Stage three: adjudication — judicial proceedings Notice to parties Costs
Chapter 20 — eligibility and enrolment Eligibility criteria Other land claims agreements Applicants
Enrolment committee Application to remove applicants from enrolment register Enrolment appeal board Judicial review Funding
Dissolution of enrolment committee and enrolment appeal board Nisg̱a'a nation responsibilities for enrolment Chapter 21 — implementation Implementation committee Chapter 22 — ratification General
Ratification by the nisg̱a'a nation Ratification by canada Ratification by british columbia Adoption of the nisg̱a'a constitution Map of nisg̱a'a lands Preamble
Whereas
The nisg̱a'a nation has lived in the nass area since time immemorial; Whereas
The nisg̱a'a nation is an aboriginal people of canada; Whereas
Section 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 Recognizes and affirms the existing aboriginal and treaty rights of the Aboriginal peoples of canada, which the courts have stated include Aboriginal title; Whereas
The nisg̱a'a nation has never entered into a treaty with canada or British columbia; Whereas
The nisg̱a'a nation has sought a just and equitable settlement of the Land question since the arrival of the british crown, including the Preparation of the nisg̱a'a petition to his majesty's privy council, Dated 21 may, 1913, and the conduct of the litigation that led to the Decision of the supreme court of canada in Calder v. the attorney-general of british columbia In 1973, and this agreement is intended to be the just and equitable Settlement of the land question; Whereas
Canadian courts have stated that the reconciliation between the prior Presence of aboriginal peoples and the assertion of sovereignty by the Crown is best achieved through negotiation and agreement, rather than Through litigation or conflict; Whereas
The parties intend that this agreement will result in this Reconciliation and establish a new relationship among them; Whereas
This agreement sets out nisg̱a'a section 35 rights inside and outside of The area that is identified in this agreement as nisg̱a'a lands; Whereas
The parties acknowledge the ongoing importance to the nisg̱a'a nation of The
Simgigat
And
Sigidimhaanak
(hereditary chiefs and matriarchs) continuing to tell their Adaawak
(oral histories) relating to their Ango'oskw (family hunting, fishing, and gathering territories) in accordance with The
Ayuuk
(nisg̱a'a traditional laws and practices); Whereas
The parties intend their relationship to be based on a new approach to Mutual recognition and sharing, and to achieve this mutual recognition And sharing by agreeing on rights, rather than by the extinguishment of Rights; and Whereas
The parties intend that this agreement will provide certainty with Respect to nisg̱a'a ownership and use of lands and resources, and the Relationship of federal, provincial and nisg̱a'a laws, within the nass Area;
Now therefore the parties agree as follows:
Chapter 1
Definitions
In this agreement:
"adjusted total allowable catch" Means, for nass sockeye or nass pink salmon, the total return to Canadian waters less the nisg̱a'a fish allocation set out in schedule a To the fisheries chapter, and less the escapement goal; "adopted child" Means an individual who, while a minor, was adopted by nisg̱a'a custom or Under laws recognized in canada; "aggregate right of way maximum" Means 2,800 hectares; "agreement" Means this agreement between the nisg̱a'a nation, canada, and british Columbia and all schedules and appendices to this agreement; "annual management plan" Means a plan approved in accordance with the wildlife and migratory Birds chapter; "aquatic plants" Means all marine and freshwater plants, including kelp, marine flowering Plants, benthic and detached algae, brown algae, red algae, green algae, And phytoplankton; "associated records" Means records documenting nisg̱a'a culture including any correspondence, Memorandum, book, plan, drawing, diagram, pictorial or graphic work, Photograph, film, microform, sound recording, video tape, machine Readable record, and any other documentary materials, regardless of the Physical form or characteristics, and any copy of those records; "available flow" Means the volume of flow of water above that required:
A. to ensure conservation of fish and stream habitats and to continue Navigability as determined by the minister in accordance with the Provisions of this agreement, and B. under water licences issued before march 22, 1996 and water licences Issued under applications made before march 22, 1996; " Ayuu
K
Hl nisg̱a'a " And
" Ayuuk
" Mean the traditional laws and practices of the nisg̱a'a nation; "british columbia" Means, unless the context otherwise requires, her majesty the queen in Right of british columbia; "british columbia right of way" Means:
A. the nisg̱a'a highway corridor, or B. any right of way on nisg̱a'a lands granted by the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village to:
I. british columbia, or Ii. a public utility On the effective date under this agreement, or after the effective date Under paragraph 2 of the roads and rights of way chapter; "canada" Means, unless the context otherwise requires, her majesty the queen in Right of canada; "category a lands" Means the lands defined in paragraph 46 of the lands chapter; "category b lands" Means the lands defined in paragraph 61 of the lands chapter; "child" Means a person under the age of majority in british columbia; "child and family service" Means a service that provides for:
A. the protection of children, where the primary objective is the safety And well-being of children, having due regard for:
I. the protection from abuse, neglect, and harm, or threat of abuse, Neglect, or harm, and any need for intervention, Ii. the support of families and care givers to provide a safe Environment and prevent abuse, neglect, and harm, or threat of abuse, Neglect, or harm, and Iii. the support of kinship ties and a child's attachment to the Extended family, or B. the promotion of a well-functioning family and community life; "community correction service" Means:
A. bail, probation, conditional sentences, conditional supervision, Parole supervision, and other forms of conditional release of adult and Young offenders, B. preparation of reports for courts, crown counsel, and parole boards, C. supervision of diverted offenders and operation of diversion Programs,
D. monitoring under the electronic monitoring program, E. development and supervision of alternative to custody programs for Adult and young offenders, F. other similar services that may be delivered by british columbia or Canada from time to time, or G. family court counsellor functions described in an agreement under the Administration of justice chapter; "consult" And
"consultation" Mean provision to a party of:
A. notice of a matter to be decided, in sufficient detail to permit the Party to prepare its views on the matter, B. in consultations between the parties to this agreement, if requested By a party, sufficient information in respect of the matter to permit The party to prepare its views on the matter, C. a reasonable period of time to permit the party to prepare its views On the matter, D. an opportunity for the party to present its views on the matter, and E. a full and fair consideration of any views on the matter so presented By the party; "crown" Means her majesty the queen in right of canada, or her majesty the queen In right of british columbia, as the case may be; "crown roads" Means the nisg̱a'a highway and secondary provincial roads; "descendant" Includes a direct descendant notwithstanding any intervening adoption or Any birth outside marriage; "designated species" Means:
A. a species of wildlife for which the minister has determined under the Wildlife and migratory birds chapter that there should be a total Allowable harvest in the nass wildlife area, or B. an initial designated species In the nass wildlife area; "directed harvest" Means the catching and keeping of:
A. a species of fish from a fishery in which a nass area stock of that Species is a significant portion of the fish caught and kept, or B. a nass area stock of a species of fish using live capture gear; "disagreement" Means any matter to which the dispute resolution chapter applies as set Out in paragraph 7 of that chapter; "dispose" Means to transfer by any method and includes assign, give, sell, grant, Charge, convey, bequeath, devise, lease, divest, release, and to agree To do any of those things; "domestic purposes" Means, in the fisheries chapter, and in the wildlife and migratory birds Chapter, food, social, and ceremonial purposes; "effective date" Means the date upon which this agreement takes effect; "eligible voter" Means an individual who:
A. is eligible to vote under paragraph 6 of the ratification chapter, or B. who votes under paragraph 7 of the ratification chapter and whose Vote is counted in accordance with paragraph 8 of that chapter; "enhancement initiative" Means an initiative that is intended to result in an increase in fish Stocks through:
A. an artificial improvement to fish habitat, or B. the application of fish culture technology; "enrolled" Means entered in the enrolment register provided for in the eligibility And enrolment chapter; "enrolment appeal board" Means the board established under paragraph 19 of the eligibility and Enrolment chapter; "enrolment committee" Means the committee established under paragraph 8 of the eligibility and Enrolment chapter; "environmental assessment" Means the evaluation of impacts on the environment, and includes Screening, study, and review; "escapement goal" Means the number of a species of nass salmon that the minister Determines is necessary for spawning; "fair compensation" Means, in respect of land, compensation as that term is generally Applied in respect of a taking by the crown, and will be based on:
A. fair market value of the land or interest that is expropriated or Otherwise taken, B. the replacement value of any improvement on the land that is Expropriated or otherwise taken, C. disturbance caused by the expropriation or taking, and D. in the case of category a lands, any particular cultural values; "fish" Means:
A. fish, including anadromous fish, B. shellfish, crustaceans, and marine animals, C. the parts of fish, shellfish, crustaceans, and marine animals, and D. the eggs, sperm, spawn, larvae, spat, juvenile stages and adult Stages of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and marine animals But not "wildlife fish"; "forest resources" Means all timber and non-timber forest resources, including all biota, But does not include wildlife, migratory birds, water, or fish; "geothermal resource" Means the natural heat of the earth and all substances that derive an Added value from it, including steam, water, and water vapour heated by The natural heat of the earth, and all substances dissolved in the Steam, water, or water vapour obtained from a well, but does not Include:
A. water that has a temperature less than 80 degrees centigrade at the Point where it reaches the surface, or B. hydrocarbons; "gravel management plan" Means a written description of the development, use, and closure of a Gravel materials pit, that contains information such as its location, Size and extent, access roads, soil and gravel materials descriptions, Topographical and geotechnical mapping, development plans, anticipated Volumes of gravel materials extracted per time period, reporting, and Reclamation;
"gravel materials" Means gravel, rock, and random borrow materials used in highway Construction;
"heritage sites" Includes archaeological, burial, historical, and sacred sites; "hydro" Means british columbia hydro and power authority and its successors and Assigns;
"incidental harvest" Means the catching and keeping of a species of nass area fish, other Than in a directed harvest; "initial designated species" Means a species designated under paragraph 15 of the wildlife and Migratory birds chapter; "initial enrolment period" Means:
A. for the purposes of the enrolment committee, from october 1, 1997 to September 30, 1999, and B. for the purposes of the enrolment appeal board, from the effective Date to the day before the second anniversary of the effective date; "intertidal bivalves" Means littleneck clams ( Protothaca staminea ), butter clams ( Saxidomus giganteas ), horse clams ( Tresus
Spp.), cockles ( Clinocardium nuttallii ), mussels (mytilus edulis ), and manila clams ( Tapes philippinarum ); "intoxicants" Includes liquor; "joint fisheries management committee" Means the committee established under paragraph 77 of the fisheries Chapter;
"joint park management committee" Means the committee referred to in paragraph 106 of the lands chapter; "land claims agreement" Means:
A. a land claims agreement in canada within the meaning of sections 25 And 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 , or B. a treaty within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 That comes into effect in canada after the effective date; "law" Includes federal, british columbia, and nisg̱a'a legislation, acts, Ordinances, regulations, orders in council, bylaws, and the common law, But, for greater certainty, does not include Ayuu
K
Hl
Nisg̱a'a or Ayuuk
; "laws of general application" Includes federal and provincial laws that apply generally in british Columbia, but does not include federal laws in respect of indians or Lands reserved for the indians; "liquor" Means:
A. fermented, spirituous and malt liquors, B. combinations of liquors, and C. drinks and drinkable liquids that are intoxicating And liquor that contains more than 1% alcohol by volume will be Conclusively deemed to be intoxicating, and "liquor" includes beer, or a Substance which, by being dissolved or diluted, is capable of being made A drinkable liquid that is intoxicating and which substance is declared By order of the lieutenant governor in council to be liquor; " Lisims
" Means the nass river; "migratory birds" Has the meaning set out in any federal legislation that is enacted Further to international conventions and that is binding on british Columbia, and includes the eggs of migratory birds; "mineral resources" Includes minerals and geothermal resources; "minerals" Means ores of metal and all natural substances that can be mined, and Includes:
A. rock or other materials from mine tailings, dumps, and previously Mined deposits of minerals, B. coal, petroleum, gas, earth, soil, peat, marl, sand, gravel, rock, Stone, limestone, dolomite, marble, shale, clay, volcanic ash, and Diatomaceous earth, and C. all precious and base minerals; "minister" Means, in relation to any matter, the minister or ministers of her Majesty the queen in right of canada or in right of british columbia, as The case may be, having the responsibility, from time to time, for the Exercise of powers in relation to the matter in question; "minor" Means an individual under the age of majority in that person's place of Residence;
"nass area" Means:
A. the entire nass watershed, B. all canadian watersheds and water bodies that drain into portions of Portland inlet, observatory inlet, or portland canal, as defined in Subparagraph (c), and C. all marine waters in pearse canal, portland inlet, observatory inlet, And portland canal northeast of a line commencing at the canadian Border, midway between pearse island and wales island, and proceeding Along wales passage southeasterly to portland inlet, then northeasterly To the midpoint between start point and trefusis point, then south to Gadu point As set out approximately in appendix i; "nass salmon" Means chinook, chum, coho, sockeye, and pink salmon originating in the Nass area; "nass steelhead" Means summer-run nass steelhead and winter-run nass steelhead Originating in the nass area; "nass wildlife area" Means the area described in appendix j; "natural boundary" Means the visible high water mark of any lake, river, stream, or other Body of water where the presence and action of the water are so common And usual, and so long continued in all ordinary years, as to mark on The soil of the bed of the body of water a character distinct from that Of its banks, in vegetation, as well as in the nature of the soil Itself;
"neutral" Means a person appointed to assist the parties to resolve a disagreement And, except in paragraph 24 of the dispute resolution chapter and Appendix m-4, includes an arbitrator; "neutral appointing authority" Means the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre Or, if the centre is unavailable to make a required appointment, any Other independent and impartial body or individual acceptable to the Parties;
"nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan" Means a plan, or an in-season adjustment to a plan, approved in Accordance with the fisheries chapter; "nisg̱a'a artifact" Means any object created by, traded to, commissioned by, or given as a Gift to a nisg̱a'a person or nisg̱a'a community, or that originated from a Nisg̱a'a community or nisg̱a'a heritage site and that has past and ongoing Importance to nisg̱a'a culture or spiritual practices, but does not Include any object traded to, commissioned by, or given as a gift to Another aboriginal people; "nisg̱a'a certificate" Means a certificate of nisg̱a'a lisims government described in Subparagraph 7 (b) of the land title chapter; "nisg̱a'a child" Means a minor who is or is eligible to become a nisg̱a'a citizen; "nisg̱a'a citizen" Means a citizen of the nisg̱a'a nation as determined by nisg̱a'a law; "nisg̱a'a constitution" Means the constitution of the nisg̱a'a nation adopted in accordance with The nisg̱a'a government chapter; "nisg̱a'a corporation" Means a corporation that is incorporated under federal or provincial Law, all of the shares of which are owned legally and beneficially by The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, a Nisg̱a'a corporation intermediary, or any combination of those entities; "nisg̱a'a corporation intermediary" Means a corporation that is incorporated under federal or provincial Law, all of the shares of which are owned legally and beneficially by The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, Another nisg̱a'a corporation intermediary, or any combination of those Entities;
"nisg̱a'a court" Means a court established under the administration of justice chapter; "nisg̱a'a fee simple lands" Means category a lands and category b lands; "nisg̱a'a fish allocation" Means a nisg̱a'a fish entitlement under this agreement, or a right to Harvest fish under the harvest agreement referred to in the fisheries Chapter, for which there is:
A. a defined harvest quantity or quota, B. a formula defining a harvest quantity or quota, or C. a defined harvest area other than the entire nass area; "nisg̱a'a fish entitlement" Means a right to harvest fish or aquatic plants under this agreement, But does not include the right to harvest fish under the harvest Agreement referred to in the fisheries chapter, or under federal or Provincial laws of general application; "nisg̱a'a fisheries" Means:
A. fisheries to harvest fish under nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement,
B. fisheries to harvest nass salmon under nisg̱a'a fish allocations under The harvest agreement, and C. harvests of aquatic plants under nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement;
"nisg̱a'a government" Means nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village governments; "nisg̱a'a highway" Means the following:
A. the british columbia highway existing on the effective date Connecting highway 16, new aiyansh, nass camp, gitwinksihlkw, and Lagalt'sap, and B. the portion of the route for the proposed highway from nass camp to Highway 37 that is within nisg̱a'a lands, and the route for the proposed Highway from laxgalt'sap to gingolx; "nisg̱a'a highway corridor" Means the area of land on which the nisg̱a'a highway is located, as Determined under paragraphs 9 and 10 of the roads and rights of way Chapter and as described in schedule a of the roads and rights of way Chapter;
"nisg̱a'a institution" Means:
A. nisg̱a'a lisims government, B. a nisg̱a'a village government, or C. a nisg̱a'a public institution; "nisg̱a'a lands" Means those lands identified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the lands chapter And includes additions under paragraphs 9 or 11 of the lands chapter; "nisg̱a'a laws" Includes the nisg̱a'a constitution; "nisg̱a'a lisims government" Means the government of the nisg̱a'a nation described in the nisg̱a'a Constitution;
"nisg̱a'a nation" Means the collectivity of those aboriginal people who share the Language, culture, and laws of the nisg̱a'a indians of the nass area, and Their descendants; "nisg̱a'a participant" Means an individual who is enrolled; "nisg̱a'a police board" Means a board established under the administration of justice chapter; "nisg̱a'a police service" Means a police service established under the administration of justice Chapter;
"nisg̱a'a private lands" Means nisg̱a'a lands that are designated as nisg̱a'a private lands by Nisg̱a'a lisims government; "nisg̱a'a public institution" Means a nisg̱a'a government body, board, commission, or tribunal Established under nisg̱a'a law, such as a school board, health board, or Police board, but does not include the nisg̱a'a court referred to in the Administration of justice chapter; "nisg̱a'a public lands" Means nisg̱a'a lands other than nisg̱a'a village lands or nisg̱a'a private Lands;
"nisg̱a'a public officer" Means:
A. a member, commissioner, director, or trustee of a nisg̱a'a public Institution,
B. a director of a nisg̱a'a corporation, the documents of incorporation Of which have been approved by the inspector of municipalities for British columbia, C. an officer or employee of the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a Nisg̱a'a institution, or a nisg̱a'a corporation, the documents of Incorporation of which have been approved by the inspector of Municipalities for british columbia, D. an election official within the meaning of a nisg̱a'a law, or E. a volunteer who participates in the delivery of services by the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a institution, or a body Referred to in subparagraph (b) or (c), under the supervision of an Officer or employee of the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Institution, or a body referred to in subparagraph (b) or (c); "nisg̱a'a road" Means a road on nisg̱a'a lands that is not a provincial secondary road or A private road; "nisg̱a'a section 35 rights" Means the rights, anywhere in canada, of the nisg̱a'a nation, that are Recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 ; "nisg̱a'a tribe" Means the Laxsgiik
(eagle), Laxgibuu
(wolf), the Gisk'aast (killerwhale), or the G
Anada
(raven) tribe of the nisg̱a'a nation; "nisg̱a'a urban locals" Means the entities established for the purpose of participation in Nisg̱a'a lisims government by nisg̱a'a citizens residing outside of the Nass area; "nisg̱a'a village" Means:
A. the village of new aiyansh, gitwinksihlkw, la X
Galt'sap, or gingolx, or B. any additional village on nisg̱a'a lands, established in accordance With the nisg̱a'a constitution and this agreement; "nisg̱a'a village government" Means the government of a nisg̱a'a village; "nisg̱a'a village lands" Means nisg̱a'a lands that are designated as nisg̱a'a village lands of a Particular nisg̱a'a village by nisg̱a'a lisims government; "nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation" Means a nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlement to a defined share of the total Allowable harvest of a designated species; "nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlement" Means a right to harvest wildlife or migratory birds under this Agreement, but does not include a right to harvest wildlife or migratory Birds under federal or provincial laws of general application; "non-salmon species" Means a species of fish in the nass area other than nass salmon and nass Steelhead;
"overage" Means the amount calculated in accordance with schedule b of the Fisheries chapter in any year in which the nisg̱a'a harvest of a species Exceeds the amount of that species that the nisg̱a'a nation is entitled To harvest in nisg̱a'a fisheries in that year; "overharvest" Means the amount in any year by which, as a result of harvesting in Canadian fisheries, the escapement goal exceeds the actual escapement For a species of nass salmon; "participating party" Means a party that:
A. is required or agrees to participate in, or B. initiates A process described in the dispute resolution chapter to resolve a Disagreement;
"party" Means a party to this agreement; "private road" Means a road on a private right of way area on nisg̱a'a lands; "project" Means any undertaking or proposed undertaking in relation to a physical Work or activity; "provincial torrens system" Means the Land title act And all other laws of british columbia in respect of the registration of Title to, rights in, claims against, and estates and interests in, land, Whether legal or equitable; "public utility" Has the meaning as set out in the Utilities commission act , and includes hydro, bc tel, and a water, sewage, or petroleum Distribution utility; "ratification committee" Means the committee established under the ratification chapter; "regional district of kitimat-stikine" Means the regional district of kitimat-stikine as it exists on the Effective date, and any successor regional government; "registrar" Means "registrar" as defined in the Land title act ; "right of way area" Means a defined portion of nisg̱a'a lands on which a grant is given by The nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village for a specified use, including Use for a public or private road, or a public utility; "road" Means the surface area of lands constructed and used for vehicular Passage, and includes surfacing, bridges, drainage and support works, Traffic control structures, and other works required to maintain the Integrity of the travelled surface; "secondary provincial road" Means a road existing on the effective date located on a right of way Area granted by the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village to british Columbia as described in appendix c-1, subject to changes permitted Under this agreement; "settlement legislation" Means the acts of parliament and the acts of the legislature of british Columbia that give effect to this agreement; " Simgigat
And
Sigidimhaanak
" Means individuals who are nisg̱a'a chiefs, and nisg̱a'a matriarchs, Respectively, in accordance with Ayuu
K
Hl
Nisg̱a'a; "stream" Includes a natural watercourse or source of water supply, whether Usually containing water or not, and a lake, river, spring, ravine, Swamp, and gulch; "submerged lands" Means lands below the natural boundary; "summer-run nass steelhead" Means:
A. those nass steelhead within the nass river that migrate from marine Environments to fresh water environments between june 1 and october 31 In any year, and B. all nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the nass river Upstream of the confluence of the tseax river and the nass river; "surplus" Means the amount, in any year, of a species of nass salmon that exceeds The physical incubation and rearing capacity of a natural area, or an Enhancement facility, for that species, and that has not been harvested In nisg̱a'a fisheries or other aboriginal, commercial, or recreational Fisheries;
"survey plan" Means a plan based on a survey, made by a british columbia land Surveyor, that complies with the regulations in respect of surveys and Plans made by the surveyor general of british columbia; "total allowable harvest" Means the maximum number of a designated species, as determined by the Minister, that may be harvested in the nass wildlife area in each year, Commencing on april 1 and ending on march 31; "underage" Means the amount calculated in accordance with schedule b of the Fisheries chapter in any year in which the amount of a species that the Nisg̱a'a nation is entitled to harvest in that year in nisg̱a'a fisheries Exceeds the nisg̱a'a harvest of that species; "voting officer" Means an individual who has been authorized by the ratification Committee to issue ballots for the referendum at a place of voting; "wildlife" Means:
A. all vertebrate and invertebrate animals, including mammals, birds, Wildlife fish, reptiles, and amphibians, and B. the eggs, juvenile stages, and adult stages of all vertebrate and Invertebrate animals But does not include "fish" or "migratory birds"; "wildlife committee" Means the committee established under paragraph 45 of the wildlife and Migratory birds chapter; "wildlife fish" Means:
A. lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous fish, from or in Non-tidal waters, B. the parts of lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous Fish, from or in non-tidal waters, and C. the eggs, sperm, spawn, larvae, spat, juvenile stages, and adult Stages of lampreys, crustaceans, mollusks, and non-anadromous fish, from Or in non-tidal waters; "winter-run nass steelhead" Means:
A. those nass steelhead within the nass river that migrate from marine Environments to fresh water environments between november 1 in any year, And may 31 in the next year, B. all nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the nass river Downstream of the confluence of the tseax river and the nass river, Including the tseax river watershed, and C. all nass steelhead within watersheds draining into the nass area, Other than the nass river watershed and watersheds draining into the Nass river; and "year" Means a calendar year unless otherwise provided, or unless the parties Otherwise agree.
Chapter 2
General provisions Nature of agreement 1.
This agreement is a treaty and a land claims agreement within the Meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
Agreement is binding 2.
This agreement is binding on the parties.
3.
The parties are entitled to rely on this agreement.
4.
Canada and british columbia will recommend to parliament and the Legislature of british columbia, respectively, that settlement Legislation provide that this agreement is binding on, and can be relied On by, all persons.
Representation and warranty 5.
The nisg̱a'a nation represents and warrants to canada and british Columbia that, in respect of the matters dealt with in this agreement, It has the authority to enter, and it enters, into this agreement on Behalf of all persons who have any aboriginal rights, including Aboriginal title, in canada, or any claims to those rights, based on Their identity as nisg̱a'a.
6.
Canada and british columbia represent and warrant to the nisg̱a'a nation That, in respect of the matters dealt with in this agreement, they have The authority to enter into this agreement within their respective Authorities.
Nisg̱a'a culture and language 7.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to practice the nisg̱a'a culture, and to Use the nisg̱a'a language, in a manner consistent with this agreement.
Constitution of canada 8.
This agreement does not alter the constitution of canada, including:
A. the distribution of powers between canada and british columbia; B. the identity of the nisg̱a'a nation as an aboriginal people of canada Within the meaning of the Constitution act, 1982 ; and C. sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
9.
The
Canadian charter of rights and freedoms Applies to nisg̱a'a government in respect of all matters within its Authority, bearing in mind the free and democratic nature of nisg̱a'a Government as set out in this agreement.
10.
There are no "lands reserved for the indians" within the meaning of the Constitution act, 1867 For the nisg̱a'a nation, and there are no "reserves" as defined in the Indian act For the use and benefit of a nisg̱a'a village, or an indian band referred To in the Indian act Transition chapter, and, for greater certainty, nisg̱a'a lands and Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands are not "lands reserved for the indians" within The meaning of the Constitution act, 1867 , and are not "reserves" as defined in the Indian act .
Application of federal and provincial laws 11.
If an authority of british columbia referred to in this agreement is Delegated from canada and:
A. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or B. if a superior court of a province, the federal court of canada, or The supreme court of canada finally determines that the delegation of That authority is invalid The reference to british columbia will be deemed to be a reference to Canada.
12.
If an authority of canada referred to in this agreement is delegated From british columbia and:
A. the delegation of that authority is revoked; or B. if a superior court of a province, the federal court of canada, or The supreme court of canada finally determines that the delegation of That authority is invalid The reference to canada will be deemed to be a reference to british Columbia.
13.
Federal and provincial laws apply to the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a Villages, nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, nisg̱a'a citizens, Nisg̱a'a lands, and nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, but:
A. in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this agreement And the provisions of any federal or provincial law, this agreement will Prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict; and B. in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between settlement Legislation and the provisions of any other federal or provincial law, The settlement legislation will prevail to the extent of the Inconsistency or conflict.
14.
Any licence, permit, or other authorization, including the commercial Recreation tenure required to be issued by canada or british columbia as A result of this agreement, will be issued under federal or provincial Law, as the case may be, and is not part of this agreement, but in the Event of an inconsistency or conflict between this agreement and:
A. that federal or provincial law; or B. any term or condition of the licence, permit, or other authorization This agreement will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or Conflict.
Other rights, benefits, and programs 15.
Nisg̱a'a citizens who are canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada continue to be entitled to all of the rights and benefits of Other canadian citizens or permanent residents of canada, applicable to Them from time to time.
16.
Subject to paragraph 6 of the fiscal relations chapter, nothing in this Agreement affects the ability of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, Nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations or nisg̱a'a citizens to Participate in, or benefit from, federal or provincial programs for Aboriginal people, registered indians or other indians, in accordance With general criteria established for those programs from time to time.
17.
Nothing in this agreement affects the ability of the nisg̱a'a nation, Nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, or nisg̱a'a Citizens to apply for or bid on any commercial, economic or other Activity or project for which they would otherwise be eligible.
18.
Subject to the Indian act Transition chapter and paragraphs 5 and 6 of the taxation chapter, the Indian act Has no application to the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a Institutions, or nisg̱a'a citizens as of the effective date, except for The purpose of determining whether an individual is an "indian".
Judicial determinations in respect of validity 19.
If a superior court of a province, the federal court of canada, or the Supreme court of canada finally determines any provision of this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable:
A. the parties will make best efforts to amend this agreement to remedy Or replace the provision; and B. the provision will be severable from this agreement to the extent of The invalidity or unenforceability, and the remainder of this agreement Will be construed, to the extent possible, to give effect to the intent Of the parties.
20.
No party will challenge, or support a challenge to, the validity of any Provision of this agreement.
21.
A breach of this agreement by a party does not relieve any party from Its obligations under this agreement.
Full and final settlement 22.
This agreement constitutes the full and final settlement in respect of The aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, in canada of the Nisg̱a'a nation.
Nisg̱a'a  section 35 rights 23.
This agreement exhaustively sets out nisg̱a'a section 35 rights, the Geographic extent of those rights, and the limitations to those rights, To which the parties have agreed, and those rights are:
A. the aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, as modified by This agreement, in canada of the nisg̱a'a nation and its people in and to Nisg̱a'a lands and other lands and resources in canada; B. the jurisdictions, authorities, and rights of nisg̱a'a government; and C. the other nisg̱a'a section 35 rights.
Modification
24.
Notwithstanding the common law, as a result of this agreement and the Settlement legislation, the aboriginal rights, including the aboriginal Title, of the nisg̱a'a nation, as they existed anywhere in canada before The effective date, including their attributes and geographic extent, Are modified, and continue as modified, as set out in this agreement.
25.
For greater certainty, the aboriginal title of the nisg̱a'a nation Anywhere that it existed in canada before the effective date is modified And continues as the estates in fee simple to those areas identified in This agreement as nisg̱a'a lands or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands.
Release
26.
If, despite this agreement and the settlement legislation, the nisg̱a'a Nation has an aboriginal right, including aboriginal title, in canada, That is other than, or different in attributes or geographical extent From, the nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this agreement, the Nisg̱a'a nation releases that aboriginal right to canada to the extent That the aboriginal right is other than, or different in attributes or Geographical extent from, the nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in This agreement.
27.
The nisg̱a'a nation releases canada, british columbia and all other Persons from all claims, demands, actions, or proceedings, of whatever Kind, and whether known or unknown, that the nisg̱a'a nation ever had, Now has or may have in the future, relating to or arising from any act, Or omission, before the effective date that may have affected or Infringed any aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, in canada Of the nisg̱a'a nation.
Consultation
28.
When canada and british columbia have consulted with or provided Information to the nisg̱a'a nation in respect of any activity, including A resource development or extraction activity, in accordance with their Obligations under this agreement and federal and provincial legislation, Canada and british columbia will not have any additional obligations Under this agreement to consult with or provide information to the Nisg̱a'a nation in respect of that activity.
Provincial law 29.
Canada will recommend to parliament that federal settlement legislation Include a provision that, to the extent that a law of british columbia Does not apply of its own force to the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, Nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, or nisg̱a'a citizens, that Law of british columbia will, subject to the federal settlement Legislation and any other act of parliament, apply in accordance with This agreement to the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a Institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, or nisg̱a'a citizens, as the case may Be.
Indemnities
30.
The nisg̱a'a nation will indemnify and save harmless canada or british Columbia, as the case may be, from any:
A. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other Professional advisors; B. damages; C. losses; or D. liabilities That canada or british columbia, respectively, may suffer or incur in Connection with, or as a result of, any claims, demands, actions, or Proceedings relating to, or arising out of, any act, or omission, before The effective date that may have affected or infringed any aboriginal Rights, including aboriginal title, in canada of the nisg̱a'a nation.
31.
The nisg̱a'a nation will indemnify and save harmless canada or british Columbia, as the case may be, from any:
A. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other Professional advisors; B. damages; C. losses; or D. liabilities That canada or british columbia, respectively, may suffer or incur in Connection with or as a result of any claims, demands, actions, or Proceedings relating to, or arising out of, the existence of an Aboriginal right, including aboriginal title, in canada of the nisg̱a'a Nation, that is other than, or different in attributes or geographical Extent from, the nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this agreement.
32.
A party who is the subject of a claim, demand, action, or proceeding That may give rise to a requirement to provide payment to that party Pursuant to an indemnity under this agreement:
A. will vigorously defend the claim, demand, action, or proceeding; and B. will not settle or compromise the claim, demand, action, or Proceeding except with the consent of the party who has granted that Indemnity, which consent will not be arbitrarily or unreasonably Withheld or delayed.
Other aboriginal people 33.
Nothing in this agreement affects, recognizes, or provides any rights Under section 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 For any aboriginal people other than the nisg̱a'a nation.
34.
If a superior court of a province, the federal court of canada, or the Supreme court of canada finally determines that any aboriginal people, Other than the nisg̱a'a nation, has rights under section 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 That are adversely affected by a provision of this agreement:
A. the provision will operate and have effect to the extent that it does Not adversely affect those rights; and B. if the provision cannot operate and have effect in a way that it does Not adversely affect those rights, the parties will make best efforts to Amend this agreement to remedy or replace the provision.
35.
If canada or british columbia enters into a treaty or a land claims Agreement, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 , with another aboriginal people, and that treaty or land claims Agreement adversely affects nisg̱a'a section 35 rights as set out in this Agreement:
A. canada or british columbia, or both, as the case may be, will provide The nisg̱a'a nation with additional or replacement rights or other Appropriate remedies; B. at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, the parties will negotiate and Attempt to reach agreement on the provision of those additional or Replacement rights or other appropriate remedies; and C. if the parties are unable to reach agreement on the provision of the Additional or replacement rights or other appropriate remedies, the Provision of those additional or replacement rights or remedies will be Determined in accordance with stage three of the dispute resolution Chapter.
Amendment provisions 36.
Except for any provision of this agreement that provides that an Amendment requires the consent of only the nisg̱a'a nation and either Canada or british columbia, all amendments to this agreement require the Consent of all three parties.
37.
Canada will give consent to an amendment to this agreement by order of The governor in council.
38.
British columbia will give consent to an amendment to this agreement by Resolution of the legislature of british columbia.
39.
If federal or provincial legislation is required to give effect to an Amendment to this agreement, canada or british columbia, as the case may Be, will take all reasonable steps to enact the legislation.
40.
The nisg̱a'a nation will give consent to an amendment to this agreement By a resolution adopted by at least two thirds of the elected members of Nisg̱a'a lisims government.
41.
An amendment to this agreement takes effect on a date agreed to by the Parties to the amendment, but if no date is agreed to, on the date that The last party required to consent to the amendment gives its consent.
42.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37 to 41, if the nisg̱a'a nation adds land to Nisg̱a'a lands in accordance with paragraph 9 or 11 of the lands chapter, Appendix a will be deemed to be amended upon receipt by canada and British columbia of the written notice referred to in paragraph 9 or 11 Of the lands chapter.
43.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37 to 41, whenever:
A. this agreement provides:
I. that the nisg̱a'a nation and canada or british columbia will negotiate And attempt to reach agreement in respect of a matter that will result In an amendment to this agreement, including a change to an appendix, And
Ii. that if agreement is not reached, the matter will be finally Determined by arbitration under the dispute resolution chapter; and B. those parties have negotiated an agreement or the matter is Determined by arbitration This agreement will be deemed to be amended on the date the agreement or Arbitrator's decision takes effect, as the case may be.
Freedom of information and privacy 44.
For the purposes of federal and provincial access to information and Privacy legislation, information that nisg̱a'a government provides to Canada or british columbia in confidence is deemed to be information Received or obtained in confidence from another government.
45.
If nisg̱a'a government requests disclosure of information from canada or British columbia, the request will be evaluated as if it were a request By a province for disclosure of that information, but canada and british Columbia are not required to disclose to nisg̱a'a government information That is only available to a particular province or particular provinces.
46.
The parties may enter into agreements in respect of any one or more of The collection, protection, retention, use, disclosure, and Confidentiality of personal, general, or other information.
47.
Canada or british columbia may provide information to nisg̱a'a government In confidence if nisg̱a'a lisims government has made a law or has entered Into an agreement with canada or british columbia, as the case may be, Under which the confidentiality of the information will be protected.
48.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement:
A. canada and british columbia are not required to disclose any Information that they are required to withhold under any federal or Provincial law; B. if federal or provincial legislation allows the disclosure of certain Information only if specified conditions for disclosure are satisfied, Canada and british columbia are not required to disclose that Information unless those conditions are satisfied; and C. the parties are not required to disclose any information that may be Withheld under a privilege at law or under sections 37 to 39 of the Canada evidence act .
Obligation to negotiate 49.
Whenever the parties are obliged under any provision of this agreement To negotiate and attempt to reach agreement, unless the parties Otherwise agree, all parties will participate in the negotiations.
50.
Whenever this agreement provides that the parties, or any of them, "will Negotiate and attempt to reach agreement", those negotiations will be Conducted as set out in the dispute resolution chapter, but, the parties Or any of them, are not obliged to proceed to stage three of the dispute Resolution chapter unless, in a particular case, they are required to do So under paragraph 28 of the dispute resolution chapter.
51.
Except as set out in this agreement, an agreement that is reached as a Result of negotiations that are required or permitted under any Paragraph of this agreement is not part of this agreement.
Conflict and inconsistency 52.
In this agreement:
A. there is a conflict between laws if compliance with one law would be A breach of the other law; and B. laws are not inconsistent merely because they make provision for the Same subject matter.
53.
If a nisg̱a'a law has an incidental impact on a subject matter in respect Of which nisg̱a'a government does not have jurisdiction to make laws, and There is an inconsistency or conflict between that incidental impact and A federal or provincial law in respect of that subject matter, the Federal or provincial law prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or Conflict.
Entire agreement 54.
This agreement is the entire agreement among the parties in respect of The subject matter of this agreement and, except as set out in this Agreement, there is no representation, warranty, collateral agreement, Condition, right, or obligation affecting this agreement.
55.
The schedules and appendices to this agreement form part of this Agreement.
Interpretation
56.
Except as set out in this agreement, in the event of an inconsistency or Conflict between a provision of this chapter and any other provision of This agreement, the provision of this chapter prevails to the extent of The inconsistency or conflict.
57.
There is no presumption that doubtful expressions, terms or provisions In this agreement are to be resolved in favour of any particular party.
58.
In this agreement:
A. the use of the word "will" denotes an obligation that, unless this Agreement provides to the contrary, must be carried out as soon as Practicable after the effective date or the event that gives rise to the Obligation;
B. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, the use of the word "including" means "including, but not limited to", and the use of the Word "includes" means "includes, but is not limited to"; C. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, a reference to a "chapter", "paragraph", "subparagraph", "schedule", or "appendix" means A chapter, paragraph, subparagraph, schedule, or appendix, respectively, Of this agreement; D. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, a reference in a Chapter of this agreement to a "paragraph", "subparagraph", or "schedule" means a paragraph, subparagraph, or schedule of that chapter; E. headings and subheadings are for convenience only, do not form a part Of this agreement, and in no way define, limit, alter, or enlarge the Scope or meaning of any provision of this agreement; F. a reference to a statute includes every amendment to it, every Regulation made under it, and any law enacted in substitution for, or in Replacement of, it; G. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, "provincial" refers to The province of british columbia; and H. unless it is otherwise clear from the context, the use of the Singular includes the plural, and the use of the plural includes the Singular.
No implied waiver 59.
A provision of this agreement, or the performance by a party of an Obligation under this agreement, may not be waived unless the waiver is In writing and signed by the party or parties giving the waiver.
60.
No written waiver of a provision of this agreement, of performance by a Party of an obligation under this agreement, or of default by a party of An obligation under this agreement, will be a waiver of any other Provision, obligation, or subsequent default.
Time of the essence 61.
Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Assignment
62.
Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, this agreement may not be Assigned, either in whole or in part, by any party.
Enurement
63.
This agreement will enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their respective permitted assigns.
Notice
64.
In paragraphs 65 to 68, "communication" includes a notice, document, Request, approval, authorization, or consent.
65.
Unless otherwise set out in this agreement, a communication between or Among the parties under this agreement must be:
A. delivered personally or by courier; B. transmitted by fax; or C. mailed by prepaid registered post in canada.
66.
A communication will be considered to have been given, made, or Delivered, and received:
A. if delivered personally or by courier, at the start of business on The next business day after the business day on which it was received by The addressee or a responsible representative of the addressee; B. if transmitted by fax and the sender receives confirmation of the Transmission, at the start of business on the business day next Following the day on which it was transmitted; or C. if mailed by prepaid registered post in canada, when the postal Receipt is acknowledged by the addressee.
67.
In addition to the provisions of paragraphs 65 and 66, the parties may Agree to give, make, or deliver a communication by means other than Those provided in paragraph 65.
68.
The parties will provide to each other addresses for delivery of Communications under this agreement, and subject to paragraph 69, will Deliver a communication to the address provided by each other party.
69.
If no other address for delivery of a particular communication has been Provided by a party, a communication will be delivered, mailed to the Address, or transmitted to the fax number, of the intended recipient as Set out below:
For:
Canada
Attention:
Minister of indian affairs and northern development House of commons Room 583, confederation building Ottawa, ottawa K1a 0a6 Fax number:
(819) 953-4941 For:
British columbia Attention:
Minister of aboriginal affairs Room 325, parliament buildings Victoria, british columbia V8v 1x4 Fax number:
(250) 356-1124 For:
Nisg̱a'a nation Attention:
President
P.o. box 231 New aiyansh, british columbia V0j 1a0 Fax number:
(250) 633-2367 70.
A party may change its address or fax number by giving a notice of the Change to the other parties.
Chapter 3
Lands
Nisg̱a'a lands General
1.
On the effective date, nisg̱a'a lands consist of all lands, including Islands, within the boundaries set out in appendix a except submerged Lands, the gingietl creek ecological reserve, the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor, and the lands within the boundaries set out in appendix b:
A. appendix b-1 — land in the vicinity of red bluff that has been set Apart as indian reserve no. 88; B. appendix b-2 — land in respect of which british columbia has granted An estate in fee simple; C. appendix b-3 — land in respect of which british columbia has granted An agriculture lease or woodlot licence; and D. appendix b-4 — roads associated with the land referred to in appendix B-2.
2.
On the effective date, nisg̱a'a lands comprise 1,992 square kilometres, More or less, of land in the lower nass valley, consisting of:
A. 1,930 square kilometres, more or less; and B. 62 square kilometres, more or less, of lands identified as former Nisg̱a'a indian reserves in appendix a-4, and which cease to be indian Reserves on the effective date.
Ownership of nisg̱a'a lands 3.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation owns nisg̱a'a lands in fee Simple, being the largest estate known in law. this estate is not Subject to any condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or Reservation set out in the Land act , or any comparable limitation under any federal or provincial law. no Estate or interest in nisg̱a'a lands can be expropriated except as Permitted by, and in accordance with, this agreement.
4.
In accordance with this agreement, the nisg̱a'a constitution, and nisg̱a'a Law, the nisg̱a'a nation may:
A. dispose of the whole of its estate in fee simple in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands to any person; and B. from the whole of its estate in fee simple, or its interest, in any Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, create, or dispose of any lesser estate or Interest to any person, including rights of way and covenants similar to Those in sections 218 and 219 of the Land title act Without the consent of canada or british columbia.
5.
A parcel of nisg̱a'a lands does not cease to be nisg̱a'a lands as a result Of any change in ownership of an estate or interest in that parcel.
6.
All methods of acquiring a right in or over land by prescription or by Adverse possession, including the common law doctrine of prescription And the doctrine of the lost modern grant, are abolished in respect of Nisg̱a'a lands.
7.
If, at any time, any parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, or any estate or interest In a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, finally escheats to the crown, the crown Will transfer, at no charge, that parcel, estate or interest to the Nisg̱a'a nation.
8.
Neither:
A. any estate or interest of the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village in Any parcel of nisg̱a'a lands to which the provincial torrens system does Not apply; nor B. any interest, right, privilege or title of the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village reserved or excepted by the nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a Village from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest in a Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands Is subject to attachment, charge other than charges that are liens in Favour of canada or british columbia, seizure, distress, execution, or Sale, except under an instrument, including a mortgage or other security Instrument, in favour of a person and granted by the nisg̱a'a nation or The nisg̱a'a village, or if allowed under a law made by nisg̱a'a lisims Government under paragraph 44 of the nisg̱a'a government chapter.
Additions to nisg̱a'a lands 9.
If, at any time, the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to any Parcel of land within the boundaries set out in appendix b-1, b-2, or B-3, the nisg̱a'a nation may, with the consent of the owner, add that Parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands. that parcel of land, together with any Roads identified in appendix b-4 associated with it, will become nisg̱a'a Lands upon receipt by canada and british columbia of written notice from The nisg̱a'a nation identifying that parcel of land and attaching the Written consent of the owner of that parcel of land.
10.
If, at any time:
A. british columbia owns the estate in fee simple to any land within the Boundaries set out in appendix b-2; or B. any land within the boundaries set out in appendix b-3 ceases to be Subject to an agriculture lease or a woodlot licence existing on the Effective date British columbia will offer to sell the estate in fee simple to that Land to the nisg̱a'a nation for a price not to exceed fair market value.
11.
If, at any time, the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Corporation or a nisg̱a'a citizen owns the estate in fee simple to a Parcel of land that is contiguous with nisg̱a'a lands, other than land Referred to in appendix b-1, b-2, or b-3, the nisg̱a'a nation may, with The consent of the owner and the agreement of canada and british Columbia, add the land to nisg̱a'a lands. if the owner consents and Canada, british columbia, and the nisg̱a'a nation agree that the land may Be added to nisg̱a'a lands, the land will become nisg̱a'a lands upon Receipt by canada and british columbia of written notice in accordance With that agreement.
12.
If the nisg̱a'a nation adds a parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands under Paragraph 9 or 11, that land will be subject to:
A. any existing charge, encumbrance, licence, or permit; B. any subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or Reservation, contained in:
I. the original grant or disposition from the crown, Ii. any other grant or disposition from the crown, or Iii. the Land act Other than those in favour of the crown at the time of the addition of The parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands; and C. any limitation under federal or provincial law comparable to those Set out in subparagraph 12(b), other than those in favour of the crown At the time of the addition of the parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands.
13.
When a parcel of land becomes nisg̱a'a lands under paragraph 9 or 11, any Subsisting condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or reservation Referred to in subparagraph 12(b) or (c) that is in favour of the crown At the time of the addition of the parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands, will Terminate.
14.
If the nisg̱a'a nation adds a parcel of land to nisg̱a'a lands under Paragraph 9 or 11, appendix a-1, a-2, and a-3, and appendix b-1, b-2, B-3, or b-4, as the case may be, will be amended to reflect the change To the boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands.
Boundary resolution 15.
If a party provides the other parties with a proposal to clarify the Location of any part of a boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, the parties will Follow the procedure set out in schedule a.
Designations of nisg̱a'a lands 16.
Nisg̱a'a lands comprise nisg̱a'a public lands, nisg̱a'a private lands, and Nisg̱a'a village lands.
17.
Nisg̱a'a public lands are nisg̱a'a lands other than those designated by Nisg̱a'a lisims government as nisg̱a'a village lands or nisg̱a'a private Lands.
18.
Nisg̱a'a private lands include:
A. lands in which nisg̱a'a lisims government creates an exclusive Interest; and B. lands that are otherwise required for uses that are incompatible with Public access, including commercial, cultural, or resource development Uses.
Mineral resources 19.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 3, on the effective Date the nisg̱a'a nation owns all mineral resources on or under nisg̱a'a Lands.
20.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government has the exclusive authority to determine, Collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in Respect of mineral resources on or under nisg̱a'a lands.
21.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and british columbia may enter into agreements In respect of the application on nisg̱a'a lands of provincial Administrative systems relating to:
A. claim staking; B. recording and inspecting of subsurface exploration and development; C. the collection of fees, rents, royalties, and other charges by British columbia on behalf of nisg̱a'a lisims government; and D. other similar matters.
Submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands 22.
British columbia owns the submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands.
23.
British columbia will provide written notice to the nisg̱a'a nation of Any proposed disposition of an estate or interest in, or use or Occupation of, submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands.
24.
British columbia will not, in respect of submerged lands within nisg̱a'a Lands:
A. grant an estate in fee simple; B. grant a lease that, with any rights of renewal, may exceed 25 years; C. transfer administration and control for a period that may exceed 25 Years; or D. otherwise dispose of an estate or interest in, or authorize the use Or occupation of, submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands if that Disposition, use, or occupation would adversely affect nisg̱a'a lands or Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this agreement Without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation, which consent will not be Unreasonably withheld.
25.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to british columbia to acquire an estate or Interest in, or for authorization to use or occupy, submerged lands Within nisg̱a'a lands, british columbia will not unreasonably refuse to Grant the estate or interest or to issue the authorization if:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation has consented to the acquisition, use, or Occupation; and B. the proposed acquisition or authorization conforms to provincial law Respecting the disposition, use, or occupation of submerged lands within British columbia.
26.
A dispute as to whether:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation is unreasonably withholding consent under Paragraph 24; or B. british columbia is unreasonably refusing to grant an estate or Interest, or to issue an authorization, under paragraph 25 Will be finally determined by arbitration under the dispute resolution Chapter.
27.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 22 to 26 do not affect any property Rights of upland owners of nisg̱a'a lands adjacent to submerged lands.
Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Definition of "interests" 28.
In paragraphs 29 to 41, "interests" Includes estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, Licences, and permits.
Former interests cease to exist 29.
On the effective date:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation's title to nisg̱a'a lands is free and clear of all Interests, except:
I. those granted or issued under paragraphs 30 to 40, Ii. those referred to in paragraph 41, Iii. those continued or issued under the transition provisions of the Forest resources chapter, and Iv. those granted under the roads and rights of way chapter; and B. subject to paragraph 41, and the transition provisions of the forest Resources chapter, every interest that, before the effective date, Encumbered or applied to the lands that are nisg̱a'a lands, ceases to Exist.
Replacement interests 30.
The nisg̱a'a nation, in accordance with paragraphs 31 to 40, and the Roads and rights of way chapter, will grant or issue interests to those Persons who are named in appendix c-1 as persons who, immediately before The effective date, had interests in the lands that comprise nisg̱a'a Lands on the effective date.
31.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation will execute documents Granting or issuing to each person named in appendix c-1 that person's Interest, as set out in that appendix.
32.
A document executed under paragraph 31 for an interest set out in part i Of appendix c-1 will be in the applicable form set out in appendix c-2 And will include any modifications agreed upon in writing before the Effective date by the nisg̱a'a tribal council and the person entitled to The interest.
33.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation will issue to each person Named in appendix c-5 a certificate of possession for the parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands ascribed to that person and described in appendix c-5.
34.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation will issue to each person Named in appendix c-6 a certificate of possession for the parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands ascribed to that person and described in appendix c-6.
35.
A person to whom the nisg̱a'a nation issues a certificate of possession Under paragraph 33 or 34 will have substantially the same right to Possess the described parcel of nisg̱a'a lands as the person would have Had as the holder of a certificate of possession under the Indian act Immediately before the effective date, modified to reflect nisg̱a'a Government jurisdiction over, and nisg̱a'a nation ownership of, nisg̱a'a Lands.
36.
After the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village may, In accordance with nisg̱a'a law, replace the certificates of possession Issued under paragraphs 33 or 34 with estates or interests in, or Licences to use or possess, the described parcels of nisg̱a'a lands. if The certificates of possession are replaced with licences, the licences Will include rights to use and possess the land comparable to, or Greater than, those set out in those certificates of possession.
37.
A document referred to in paragraph 31, 33 or 34, or in paragraph 7 of The roads and rights of way chapter, will be deemed to be:
A. delivered by the nisg̱a'a nation on the effective date; and B. executed and delivered by each person referred to in those paragraphs On the effective date, whether or not the document is actually executed Or delivered by that person.
38.
The nisg̱a'a nation will, as soon as practicable after the effective Date, physically deliver the applicable document:
A. to each person named in appendix c-1, c-5, or c-6; or B. to any other person who, before the effective date:
I. was identified in writing to the nisg̱a'a tribal council by canada or British columbia as the person who, instead of a person named in Appendix c-1 or c-5, should receive an interest referred to in appendix C-1 or c-5 by reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation Of law, or Ii. was identified in writing to canada and british columbia by the Nisg̱a'a tribal council as the person who, instead of a person named in Appendix c-6, should receive an interest referred to in appendix c-6 by Reason of death, any form of transfer, error or operation of law And the appendix will be amended to reflect the change.
39.
If canada or british columbia notifies the nisg̱a'a nation that an Interest granted under paragraph 30, 31, 33, or 34:
A. is in the name of a person who was not actually entitled to the Interest on the effective date; or B. contains a clerical error or a wrong description of a material fact The appropriate parties will take reasonable measures to rectify the Error.
40.
Any right of way of the nature described in section 218 of the Land title act That is granted by the nisg̱a'a nation under this agreement is legally Binding and enforceable notwithstanding that the nisg̱a'a lands to which The right of way relates are not subject to the Land title act .
Licences and traplines 41.
The traplines, guide outfitter licence and certificate, and angling Guide licences set out in appendix c-7 are retained by the persons who Hold those interests on the effective date in accordance with provincial Laws of general application and the wildlife and migratory birds Chapter. if an interest referred to in this paragraph is not renewed or Replaced, that interest will cease to exist.
Indemnities
42.
British columbia will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation From any damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and Disbursements of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the Nisg̱a'a nation may suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of Any claims, demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out Of:
A. the omission from appendix c-1 of the name of a person who, Immediately before the effective date, had an interest in nisg̱a'a lands That had been granted by british columbia; or B. the incorrect naming of a person in appendix c-1 as a person entitled To an interest, where another person was actually entitled, immediately Before the effective date, to the interest in nisg̱a'a lands that had Been granted by british columbia.
43.
Canada will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation from any Damages, losses, liabilities, or costs, excluding fees and disbursements Of solicitors and other professional advisors, that the nisg̱a'a nation May suffer or incur in connection with or as a result of any claims, Demands, actions, or proceedings relating to or arising out of:
A. the omission from appendix c-1 or c-5 of the name of a person who, Immediately before the effective date, had an interest in or a Certificate of possession in respect of nisg̱a'a lands that had been Granted by canada; or B. the incorrect naming of a person in appendix c-1 or c-5 as a person Entitled to an interest or certificate of possession, where another Person was actually entitled, immediately before the effective date, to The interest or the certificate of possession in respect of nisg̱a'a Lands that had been granted by canada.
Site remediation 44.
British columbia will inspect the sites set out in schedule b and will Undertake, or cause to be undertaken, appropriate remediation of any Contamination at each site as follows:
A. british columbia, or the person undertaking the remediation, will Give notice to the nisg̱a'a nation no more than 60 days before commencing The remediation; and B. whether a site is contaminated, and the nature and extent of the Appropriate remediation, will be determined under british columbia law And, for the purposes of those determinations, the use of the site will Be deemed to be either:
I. the actual use of the site on the date of the notice under Subparagraph (a); or Ii. if the site is not in use on the date of the notice under Subparagraph (a), the use identified in schedule b.
Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands outside nisg̱a'a lands 45.
Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands consist of category a lands and category b Lands as described in appendix d.
Category a lands 46.
Category a lands are the parcels of land set out in appendix d-2 and D-3, and consist of:
A. the lands identified as former nisg̱a'a indian reserves in appendix D-2 and d-3; and B. certain lands adjacent to some of those former nisg̱a'a indian Reserves.
47.
On the effective date, the lands outside nisg̱a'a lands that are Identified as former nisg̱a'a indian reserves in appendix d-2 and d-3 Cease to be indian reserves.
48.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation owns the estate in fee simple To category a lands.
49.
The estate in fee simple to category a lands is subject to the rights Referred to in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (iii) of the Land act But is not subject to any other conditions, provisos, restrictions, Exceptions, or reservations set out in section 50 of the Land act , and no estate or interest in category a lands can be expropriated from The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this Agreement.
50.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 51, the estate in fee simple To category a lands is free and clear of all estates, interests, Charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except Those set out in appendix d-4.
51.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation owns all mineral resources on Or under category a lands, free and clear of all estates, interests, Charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except for The mineral claims set out in appendix d-4.
52.
On the effective date, british columbia owns the submerged lands within The category a lands other than the submerged lands within the category A lands described in appendix d-2 as former i.r. nos. 24, 27, and 27a, And extensions, and those submerged lands are owned by the nisg̱a'a Nation.
53.
A parcel of category a lands ceases to be category a lands if no estate Or interest in that parcel is owned by the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a Village, a nisg̱a'a  corporation or a nisg̱a'a citizen.
54.
If the nisg̱a'a nation disposes of the estate in fee simple in the Category a lands described in appendix d-2 as former i.r. no. 15 and Extension, it will reserve to itself a blanket right of way for the Purpose of providing road access across that parcel to adjacent lands.
The nisg̱a'a nation will, on request of british columbia, assign the Benefit of the right of way over that portion of that parcel upon which The forest service road existing on the effective date is located, in Accordance with the following:
A. any assignment will be on reasonable terms, including the location of The requested right of way area, its width considering the intended use, Its effect on neighbouring lands and payment of fair compensation, but, Notwithstanding subparagraph (d) of the definition of "fair Compensation", particular cultural values will not be included in the Determination of fair compensation; and B. if british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation are unable to agree on the Terms of the assignment, including the reasonableness of the proposed Terms or location of the requested right of way area, the terms of the Assignment will be finally determined by arbitration under the dispute Resolution chapter, but the arbitrator will not have authority to Require british columbia to accept an assignment of the right of way.
Provincial expropriation of category a lands 55.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate an estate or Interest in category a lands from the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, A nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen under provincial legislation Only if the expropriation is:
A. justifiable and necessary for a provincial public purpose; B. of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest Time required, for that provincial public purpose; C. by and for the use of a provincial ministry or agent of the Provincial crown; and D. with the consent of the lieutenant governor in council.
56.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the Estate in fee simple in category a lands from the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen, british Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair Compensation.
57.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee Simple, including the mineral resources, in category a lands from the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation, british Columbia will provide the owner of the estate in fee simple with:
A. equivalent crown land if:
I. the owner and the nisg̱a'a nation request compensation in the form of Equivalent crown land, and Ii. equivalent crown land is available; or B. fair compensation if:
I. the owner and the nisg̱a'a nation do not request equivalent crown Land,
Ii. equivalent crown land is not available, or Iii. the owner, the nisg̱a'a nation, and british columbia otherwise Agree.
58.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee Simple, including the mineral resources, in category a lands from a Nisg̱a'a citizen, british columbia will provide the owner of the estate In fee simple with fair compensation.
59.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee Simple, excluding any mineral resources, in category a lands under Paragraph 55, the owner of the estate in fee simple and the nisg̱a'a Nation may require british columbia to include the mineral resources in The expropriation. if the owner and the nisg̱a'a nation require british Columbia to include the mineral resources in the expropriation, Paragraph 57 applies to the expropriation.
60.
Unless british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation otherwise agree, any Lands provided by british columbia to the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a Village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for An expropriation of an estate or interest in category a lands will Become category a lands.
Category b lands 61.
Category b lands are the parcels of land outside nisg̱a'a lands set out In appendix d-6 and d-7.
62.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation owns the estate in fee simple To category b lands.
63.
The estate in fee simple to category b lands is subject to the Conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations set out In paragraph 50 (1) (a) of the Land act , except that set out in subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (i) of the Land act , but no estate or interest in category b lands can be expropriated from The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen except as permitted by, and in accordance with, this Agreement.
64.
On the effective date, subject to paragraph 65, the estate in fee simple To category b lands is free and clear of all estates, interests, Charges, mineral claims, encumbrances, licences, and permits, except Those set out in appendix d-8.
65.
On the effective date, british columbia owns the submerged lands within The category b lands.
66.
On the effective date, british columbia owns the mineral resources on or Under the category b lands that are reserved to the crown under Subparagraph 50 (1) (a) (ii) of the Land act .
67.
A parcel of category b land ceases to be category b lands if no estate Or interest in that parcel is owned by the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a Village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen.
Provincial expropriation of category b lands 68.
A provincial expropriating authority may expropriate the estate in fee Simple or any interest in category b lands from the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen under Provincial legislation only if compensation is provided in accordance With paragraphs 69 to 72.
69.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates less than the Estate in fee simple in category b lands from the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen, british Columbia will provide the owner of the interest expropriated with fair Compensation.
70.
If a provincial expropriating authority expropriates the estate in fee Simple in category b lands from the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, Or a nisg̱a'a corporation, british columbia will provide the owner of the Estate in fee simple with:
A. equivalent crown land if:
I. the owner and the nisg̱a'a nation request compensation in the form of Equivalent crown land, and Ii. equivalent crown land is available; or B. fair compensation if:
I. the owner and the nisg̱a'a nation do not request equivalent crown Land,
Ii. equivalent crown land is not available, or Iii. the owner, the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree.
71.
If british columbia expropriates the estate in fee simple in category b Lands from a nisg̱a'a citizen, british columbia will provide the owner With fair compensation.
72.
Unless british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation otherwise agree, any Lands provided by british columbia to the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a Village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen as compensation for An expropriation of an estate or interest in category b lands will Become category b lands.
Federal acquisition of interests in nisg̱a'a lands and nisg̱a'a fee Simple lands General
73.
Canada acknowledges that it is of fundamental importance to maintain the Size and integrity of nisg̱a'a lands and nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, and Therefore, as a general principle, estates or interests in nisg̱a'a Lands, or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, will not be expropriated under Federal legislation.
Governor in council consent 74.
Notwithstanding paragraph 73, an estate or interest in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands, or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, may be expropriated under Federal legislation if the governor in council consents to the Expropriation.
75.
The governor in council will consent to an expropriation of an estate or Interest in a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, only If the expropriation:
A. is justifiable and necessary for a federal public purpose; and B. is of the smallest estate or interest necessary, and for the shortest Time required, for that federal public purpose.
76.
The governor in council will not consent to an expropriation of a parcel Of nisg̱a'a lands, or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, if other lands suitable For the federal public purpose are reasonably available.
77.
Before the governor in council considers an expropriation of an estate Or interest in a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, It will ensure that canada has:
A. consulted the nisg̱a'a nation; B. ensured that reasonable efforts have been made to acquire the estate Or interest through agreement with the owner of the estate or interest; And
C. provided the nisg̱a'a nation with all information relevant to the Expropriation other than federal cabinet documents.
78.
If the governor in council consents to an expropriation, canada will Provide the nisg̱a'a nation with the reasons for the expropriation.
Effect of expropriation 79.
If an estate or interest in a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands is expropriated Under paragraph 74, nisg̱a'a laws continue to apply to that parcel of Land except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with the Ability to use and occupy that land for the purpose for which that Estate or interest was expropriated.
80.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands is expropriated under paragraph 74, the owner of The estate in fee simple in that parcel of land may continue to use and Occupy that land, except to the extent that the use or occupation is Inconsistent with the purpose for which that estate or interest was Expropriated.
81.
If there is an expropriation under paragraph 74 of the estate in fee Simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, or of The estate in fee simple in a parcel of nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, canada Will, at the request of nisg̱a'a lisims government, ensure that Reasonable efforts are made to acquire alternative land of equivalent Significance and value to offer as part or all of the compensation for The expropriation. any alternative land that is contiguous with nisg̱a'a Lands may become nisg̱a'a lands in accordance with paragraph 9.
82.
Canada will ensure that the owner of the estate or interest that is Expropriated under paragraph 74 receives compensation, taking into Account:
A. the cost of acquiring alternative land of equivalent significance and Value;
B. the market value of the estate or interest that is expropriated; C. the replacement value of any improvements on the land that is Expropriated;
D. disturbance caused by the expropriation; and E. if the owner of the estate or interest that is expropriated is the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a Citizen, any adverse effect on any cultural or other special value of The land to the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village.
83.
If less than the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, or less than the estate in fee simple in a Parcel of nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, has been expropriated under Paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the purpose for which it was Expropriated, canada will ensure that the interest in those lands is Transferred at no charge to the owner of the estate in fee simple. the Terms of that transfer will be negotiated by the nisg̱a'a nation and Canada at the time of the expropriation.
84.
If the estate in fee simple as described in paragraph 3 in a parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands, or a parcel of nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, has been Expropriated under paragraph 74 but is no longer required for the Purpose for which it was expropriated, canada will ensure that the Estate in fee simple is transferred at no charge to the nisg̱a'a nation Or the nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be. the terms of that transfer Will be negotiated by the nisg̱a'a nation and canada at the time of the Expropriation.
85.
The consent of the governor in council is not required to determine Whether the estate or interest is no longer required for the purpose for Which it was expropriated.
86.
The nisg̱a'a nation or canada may refer a dispute in respect of the value And nature of the compensation, or the terms of transfer, to be finally Determined by arbitration under the dispute resolution chapter.
Initial surveys 87.
Before the effective date, or as soon as practicable after the effective Date, surveys will be conducted of the boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands and Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands in accordance with instructions to be issued by The surveyor general of british columbia and approved by the parties (the "initial surveys").
88.
British columbia and canada will, as agreed between them, pay the full Cost of the initial surveys.
89.
The parties may, before or after the effective date, amend appendices a And d to reflect minor adjustments that may be agreed upon by the Parties as a result of the initial surveys.
Commercial recreation tenure 90.
After the effective date, at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, british Columbia will issue a commercial recreation tenure (the "nisg̱a'a Commercial recreation tenure") to the nisg̱a'a nation, or to a nisg̱a'a Corporation designated by the nisg̱a'a nation, for the areas set out in Appendix e based on the "nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure management Plan" developed by the nisg̱a'a tribal council and british columbia and Approved on july 6, 1998.
91.
The term of the nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will be 27 years.
92.
If no request is made under paragraph 90 within 90 days after the Effective date, british columbia will issue the nisg̱a'a commercial Recreation tenure to the nisg̱a'a nation no later than 100 days after the Effective date.
93.
The first seven years of the term of the nisg̱a'a commercial recreation Tenure will be a phase-in period, and during that period:
A. the nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure will permit, but not Require, the nisg̱a'a nation or the designated nisg̱a'a corporation to Carry out activities in accordance with the nisg̱a'a commercial Recreation tenure management plan; and B. british columbia will not issue another commercial recreation tenure Within the areas set out in appendix e that conflicts with the nisg̱a'a Commercial recreation tenure management plan.
94.
The nisg̱a'a nation may, with the consent of british columbia, which Consent will not be unreasonably withheld, assign the nisg̱a'a commercial Recreation tenure to a nisg̱a'a corporation, and upon that assignment British columbia will release the nisg̱a'a nation from any obligations Under the tenure that are assumed by the assignee.
Heritage sites and key geographic features 95.
On the effective date, british columbia will designate as provincial Heritage sites the sites of cultural and historic significance outside Nisg̱a'a lands that are set out in appendix f-1. the parties acknowledge That those sites may have cultural or historic significance to persons Or groups other than the nisg̱a'a nation.
96.
On the effective date, british columbia will:
A. record the nisg̱a'a names and historic background information for the Geographic features that are set out in appendix f-2 in the british Columbia geographic names data base (bcgnis); and B. name or rename in the nisg̱a'a language the geographic features that Are set out in appendix f-3.
97.
After the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation may propose that british Columbia name or rename other geographic features with nisg̱a'a names, And british columbia will consider those proposals in accordance with Applicable provincial laws.
Parks and ecological reserve Definitions
98.
In paragraphs 99 to 118:
A.
"park" Means
Anhluut'ukwsim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a , The nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park; and B.
"ecological reserve" Means the gingietl creek ecological reserve, #115.
General
99.
Subject to this agreement, british columbia's authority and Responsibilities in respect of the park and the ecological reserve will Continue.
100.
Subject to paragraph 101, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to traditional Uses of the lands and resources within the park and the ecological Reserve, including domestic resource harvesting, in accordance with this Agreement and in a manner consistent with any management plan agreed to By the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia.
101.
Unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree, british Columbia will not permit commercial resource extraction or other Commercial activity within the park or the ecological reserve.
102.
The nisg̱a'a nation has the right to participate in the planning, Management, and development of the park and the ecological reserve in Accordance with this agreement.
Anhluut'ukwsim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a , nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park 103.
Unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree, british Columbia will continue the park as a class "a" provincial park or a Provincial park with an equivalent classification.
104.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the park are as set out in Appendix g-1.
105.
Nisg̱a'a history and culture are, and will be promoted as, the primary Cultural features of the park.
106.
In order to facilitate the planning, management, and development of the Park, british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will continue the joint Park management committee that was established under the memorandum of Understanding between the nisg̱a'a tribal council and british columbia Dated april 30, 1992.
107.
The joint park management committee will review and make recommendations To the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect of:
A. the development and periodic revision of the master plan, and all Other plans, applicable to or proposed for the park; B. encumbrances, park use permits, and other interests and Authorizations, applicable to or proposed for the park; C. any business plans, operations budgets, and capital budgets proposed For the park; D. archaeological and other research projects, cultural and interpretive Programs, publications, and communications strategies proposed for the Park or the ecological reserve; E. planning and management of activities, including development, on Crown land and nisg̱a'a lands that could affect the park; F. issues relating to the management of the ecological reserve; and G. issues relating to traditional uses of resources, including cedar Trees.
108.
The joint park management committee has no more than six members. the Nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia will each appoint no more than three Members as their representatives.
109.
The joint park management committee will meet as often as is necessary To carry out its responsibilities, and will establish its procedures.
110.
Whenever possible, the joint park management committee will carry out Its responsibilities by consensus. if there is no consensus, the joint Park management committee will submit the recommendations of each Party's representatives.
111.
After considering the recommendations of the joint park management Committee made under paragraph 107, the minister, on a timely basis, Will approve or reject in whole or in part the recommendations, other Than those in respect of nisg̱a'a lands, made by the joint park Management committee or its members, and will provide written reasons For rejecting in whole or in part those recommendations. any approval or Rejection of a recommendation will be consistent with this agreement.
112.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive Recommendations from the joint park management committee, the minister:
A. may make the decision or take the action that the minister considers Necessary, without receiving recommendations from the joint park Management committee; B. will advise nisg̱a'a lisims government and the joint park management Committee as soon as practicable of that decision or action; and C. will provide nisg̱a'a lisims government and the joint park management Committee with written reasons for that decision or action.
113.
British columbia has the responsibility to fund the park in accordance With appropriations for parks in british columbia. british columbia will Provide similar treatment over time to the park as it generally provides To comparable parks in british columbia.
Gingietl creek ecological reserve 114.
Unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree, british Columbia will continue the ecological reserve as an ecological reserve Or another equivalent designation.
115.
On the effective date, the boundaries of the ecological reserve are as Set out in appendix g-2.
116.
At the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, the nisg̱a'a nation and british Columbia will jointly determine whether, and the terms and conditions Under which, a road across the ecological reserve can be located, Constructed, and controlled, in a manner that will have minimal adverse Impact on the unique ecological values for which the ecological reserve Was established.
117.
If it is determined under paragraph 116 or 118 that a road across the Ecological reserve can be constructed, the nisg̱a'a nation may construct, Operate, and maintain the road as if it were a nisg̱a'a road that is not Within nisg̱a'a village lands, and british columbia will issue to the Nisg̱a'a nation an exclusive and perpetual right of way for those Purposes, in accordance with the terms and conditions determined under Paragraph 116 or 118.
118.
The nisg̱a'a nation or british columbia may refer a dispute under Paragraph 116 or 117 to be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute resolution chapter.
Other parks 119.
British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation in respect of Planning and management of other provincial parks in the nass area.
120.
On the effective date, british columbia will establish, and thereafter Continue, bear glacier park as a class "a" provincial park, or a Provincial park with an equivalent classification, with the boundaries Set out in appendix g-3.
121.
At the request of any of the parties, the parties will negotiate and Attempt to reach agreement on the establishment of a marine park in the Nass area, but, for greater certainty, canada is not obliged to Establish a national park, national park reserve, or a national marine Park, or to reach agreement on the establishment of a national park, National park reserve, or a national marine park.
Water volumes Nisg̱a'a water reservation 122.
On the effective date, british columbia will establish a nisg̱a'a water Reservation, in favour of the nisg̱a'a nation, of 300,000 cubic Decametres of water per year from:
A. the nass river; and B. other streams wholly or partially within nisg̱a'a lands For domestic, industrial, and agricultural purposes.
123.
The nisg̱a'a water reservation will have priority over all water licences Other than:
A. water licences issued before march 22, 1996; and B. water licences issued pursuant to an application made before march 22, 1996.
124.
The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen may, with the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation, apply to British columbia for water licences for volumes of flow to be applied Against the nisg̱a'a water reservation.
125.
The total volume of flow under water licences to be applied against the Nisg̱a'a water reservation of each stream may not exceed:
A. the percentage of the available flow, specified in schedule c, of Each stream set out in that schedule; or B. 50% of the available flow of any stream not set out in schedule c.
126.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to british columbia for a water licence for a Volume of flow to be applied against the nisg̱a'a water reservation and:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation has consented to the application; B. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements; C. the application is for a volume of flow that, together with the total Volume of flow licenced for that stream under this paragraph, does not Exceed the percentage of available flow for that stream referred to in Paragraph 125; and D. there is a sufficient unlicensed volume of flow in the nisg̱a'a water Reservation
British columbia will approve the application and issue the water Licence. the volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under This paragraph will be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow in The nisg̱a'a water reservation.
127.
If a water licence issued under paragraph 126 is cancelled, expires, or Otherwise terminates, the volume of flow in that licence will be added To the unlicensed volume of flow in the nisg̱a'a water reservation.
128.
A water licence issued under paragraph 126 will not be subject to any Rentals, fees, or other charges by british columbia.
129.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen applies to british columbia for a water licence for a Volume of flow from a stream wholly or partially within nisg̱a'a lands And:
A. all of the available flow for that stream referred to in paragraph 125 is licensed under paragraph 126; B. the nisg̱a'a nation has consented to the application; C. the application conforms to provincial regulatory requirements; and D. the stream contains a sufficient volume of:
I. unrecorded water, and Ii. flow to ensure conservation of fish and stream habitats, and to Continue navigability, as determined by the minister in accordance with The provisions of this agreement To meet the volume of flow requested in the application British columbia will approve the application and issue the water Licence. the volume of flow approved in a water licence issued under This paragraph will not be deducted from the unlicensed volume of flow In the nisg̱a'a water reservation.
130.
British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation about all Applications for water licences in respect of streams wholly or Partially within nisg̱a'a lands.
131.
If a person other than the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence and reasonably Requires access across, or an interest in, nisg̱a'a lands for the Construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works authorized Under the licence, nisg̱a'a government may not unreasonably withhold Consent to, and will take reasonable steps to ensure, that access or the Granting of that interest, if:
A. the licence holder offers fair compensation to the owner of the Estate or interest affected; and B. the licence holder and the owner of the estate or interest affected Agree on the terms of the access or the interest, including the Location, size, duration, and nature of the interest.
132.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129 And reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, crown land for The construction, maintenance, improvement, or operation of works Authorized under the licence, british columbia will grant the access or Interest on reasonable terms.
133.
British columbia or the nisg̱a'a nation may refer a dispute arising under Paragraph 131 or 132 to be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute resolution chapter.
134.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen has a water licence approved under paragraph 126 or 129 And reasonably requires access across, or an interest in, lands set out In appendix b-2 for the construction, maintenance, improvement, or Operation of works authorized under the licence, the nisg̱a'a nation, Nisg̱a'a village, nisg̱a'a corporation, or nisg̱a'a citizen may acquire the Access or interest in accordance with provincial laws of general Application.
135.
The nisg̱a'a nation may nominate a water bailiff under the Water act For:
A. that portion of the nass river within nisg̱a'a lands; and B. other streams wholly or partially within nisg̱a'a lands And british columbia will not unreasonably withhold appointment of that Nominee.
136.
Notwithstanding paragraph 128, if british columbia appoints a water Bailiff nominated by the nisg̱a'a nation under paragraph 135, the water Bailiff will be compensated in accordance with provincial laws of General application.
137.
This agreement is not intended to grant the nisg̱a'a nation any property In water.
138.
This agreement does not preclude the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, A nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen from selling water in Accordance with federal and provincial laws.
139.
The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply in accordance with provincial laws of general Application for a water licence in respect of a stream wholly outside Nisg̱a'a lands.
Nisg̱a'a hydro power reservation 140.
In addition to the nisg̱a'a water reservation established under paragraph 122, british columbia will establish a water reservation in favour of The nisg̱a'a nation, for 20 years after the effective date, of all of the Unrecorded waters of all streams, other than the nass river, that are Wholly or partially within nisg̱a'a lands (the "nisg̱a'a hydro power Reservation"), to enable the nisg̱a'a nation to investigate the Suitability of those streams for hydro power purposes, including related Storage purposes.
141.
If the nisg̱a'a nation applies for a water reservation for hydro power Purposes on a stream subject to the nisg̱a'a hydro power reservation, British columbia will, after considering the results of any Investigations referred to in paragraph 140, establish a water Reservation for hydro power purposes and any related storage purposes on The unrecorded waters of that stream if it considers that stream to be Suitable for hydro power purposes.
142.
If british columbia establishes a water reservation for a stream under Paragraph 141, the nisg̱a'a hydro power reservation will terminate in Respect of that stream.
143.
If, after british columbia establishes a water reservation under Paragraph 141, the nisg̱a'a nation applies for a water licence for hydro Power purposes and any related storage purposes for a volume of flow From the stream subject to that water reservation, british columbia will Grant the water licence if the proposed hydro power project conforms to Federal and provincial regulatory requirements.
144.
If british columbia issues a water licence under paragraph 143 for a Stream, the water reservation established under paragraph 141 will Terminate in respect of that stream.
Schedule a — boundary resolution 1.
Within a reasonable time after a party provides the other parties with a Written proposal to clarify the location of a part of a boundary of Nisg̱a'a lands, the parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement On whether, how, and at whose cost to undertake the proposed Clarification of boundary location.
2.
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the cost as between the parties of Any field survey undertaken to clarify the location of a part of a Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands will be borne by:
A. the party authorizing an activity causing the need for clarification Of the boundary location; or B. the party proposing clarification of the boundary location, if no Party has authorized an activity causing the need for clarification of The boundary location.
3.
If the parties do not agree on whether, how, or at whose cost to Undertake the proposed boundary clarification, any party may refer the Matter to be finally determined by arbitration under the dispute Resolution chapter.
4.
If the parties agree to undertake the field survey of a part of a Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, or if an arbitrator orders the field survey Of a part of a boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, the parties will provide Notice to the surveyor general of british columbia of the agreement of The parties or the order of the arbitrator.
5.
Upon receiving notice under paragraph 4, the surveyor general will Prepare and submit to the parties for approval provisional survey Instructions, based on prevailing provincial survey standards, for the Part of the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands.
6.
After the parties have approved the survey instructions for the part of The boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, the surveyor general will issue the Approved survey instructions to the british columbia land surveyor Designated by the party responsible for the costs of the survey or, Where more than one party is responsible, to the british columbia land Surveyor designated by those parties. the party or parties responsible For the costs of the survey will be determined in accordance with Paragraphs 2 and 3.
7.
After the designated british columbia land surveyor has, in accordance With the approved survey instructions, completed the field survey and Submitted the required survey plans to the surveyor general and the Parties, appendix a will be amended to reflect the survey.
Schedule b — list of sites Sites on nisg̱a'a lands that are not on former nisg̱a'a indian reserves Site name and use General location Forestry activities Lavender logging camp Located in general vicinity of taylor creek on nass kwinatahl Fsr 7876-04
103p.046 Ksedin logging camp Sup 16189
Northern side of nisg̱a'a highway at 10km from ginlulak 103p.013 Ginlulak log sort and dump Sup 9764
On ishkheenickh road at 2.5km from nisg̱a'a highway turnoff 103p.003 Kwinatahl camp sim gan logging camp and dryland sort Sup 19897 and 22417 Near kwinatahl river on ksadin to alice arm road 103p.035 Tower logging camp In vicinity of bridge crossing of ishkheenickh river 103i.093 Monkley log dump In vicinity of northwestern corner of former ir12, lacktesk 103i.092 Upper and lower clark log sort and dump In vicinity of eastern boundary of former ir9 and ishkheenickh Road
Ro7816
103p.003 Kinskuch log sort and dump In vicinity of former ir53, southern shore of nass river opposite Mouth of kinskuch river 103p.056 Log sort and dump On eastern side of nass river where road comes down to river west Of cassiar Dl3061
103p.025 Omar island log sort Nass river in vicinity of former Ir29a 103p.014 River shack fuelling area In vicinity of southwestern corner of former ir29 zaulzap, near Nisg̱a'a highway 103p.014 Water gauge and stoney point general work area On northern side of nisg̱a'a highway at 18km from ginlulak 103p.014 14k general work area In vicinity of nisg̱a'a highway at 14km from ginlulak 103p.014 Dragon lake forestry camp In area of campground 103p.036 Sort yard On both sides of nass – kinskuch fsr near junction with nass – Kwinatahl road 103p.046 Landfills
New aiyansh landfill At end of dump road 103p.025 Ksedin landfill Southern side of nisg̱a'a highway, 12km from ginlulak 103p.014 Highway activities Moth gravel pits Listed in schedule a, roads and rights of way chapter Sites on nisg̱a'a fee simple lands that are not on former nisg̱a'a Indian reserves Site name and use General location Echo cove logging camp Iceberg bay 103i.091 Schedule c — water volumes Streams partially within nisg̱a'a lands for which a percentage of Available water flow has been specified Stream name Percentage of Available flow B.c.g.s. map references Scowban creek (unofficial name) 50% 103p.001 Ishkheenickh river 26% 103i.062, 103i.063, 103i.072, 103i.073, 103i.074, 103i.082, 103i.083, 103i.084, 103i.092, 103i.093 and 103i.094 Ksemamaith creek 29% 103p.003, 103p.004, 103p.013 and 103p.014 Kshadin creek 10% 103p.044, 103p.045, 103p.046, 103p.054 and 103p.055 Tseax river 10% 103i.094, 103i.095, 103i.096, 103p.004, 103p.005, 103p.006, 103p.014, 103p.015, 103p.016, 103p.017, 103p.025 and 103p.026 Kwinatahl river 10% 103p.033, 103p.034, 103p.035, 103p.043, 103p.044 and 103p.045 Tchitin river 10% 103p.044, 103p.045, 103p.046, 103p.054, 103p.055, 103p.056, 103p.064 and 103p.065 Ksedin creek 12% 103i.084, 103i.085, 103i.093, 103i.094, 103i.095, 103p.003 and 103p.004 Chapter 4
Land title Federal title legislation 1.
Federal land title or land registry laws do not apply to any parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands, other than laws in respect of the survey and recording of Estates or interests that are owned by canada and are in nisg̱a'a lands.
Provincial torrens system 2.
The provincial torrens system does not apply to a parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands for which:
A. no application has been made under the Land title act In accordance with this agreement for the registration of an Indefeasible title; B. an application has been made under the Land title act In accordance with this agreement for the registration of an Indefeasible title and, that application has been withdrawn or rejected; Or
C. the indefeasible title under the Land title act Has been cancelled under that act in accordance with this agreement.
3.
If the nisg̱a'a nation applies under the Land title act In accordance with this agreement for the registration of an Indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, effective from the time Of application and until:
A. the application has been withdrawn or rejected; or B. the indefeasible title for that parcel is cancelled The provincial torrens system, but not any nisg̱a'a law in respect of Land title or land registration made under paragraph 50 (a) of the Nisg̱a'a government chapter, applies to the parcel, subject to paragraph 4.
4.
Notwithstanding the application of the provincial torrens system to a Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands as set out in paragraph 3, a nisg̱a'a land title Or land registration law that relates only to In personam Rights of a person deprived of an estate, interest, condition, proviso, Restriction, exception, reservation, or certificate of possession as a Result of the application of the provincial torrens system in accordance With this agreement applies to the parcel, to the extent that the law Does not conflict with paragraph 11 of this chapter.
Application for indefeasible title 5.
The nisg̱a'a nation, and no other person, in its own name or on behalf of Another person may apply under the Land title act For the registration of an indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands for which no indefeasible title is registered at the time of Application.
Land title fees 6.
If the nisg̱a'a nation applies for the registration of an indefeasible Title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands for which no indefeasible title has Been registered after the effective date, and the proposed registered Owner in fee simple is the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a Nisg̱a'a corporation, no land title fees are payable in respect of the Application by which the proposed owner becomes the registered owner.
Nisg̱a'a  certificate 7.
The nisg̱a'a nation, when applying for the registration of an Indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands under paragraph 5, will Provide to the registrar:
A. a description of the boundaries of the parcel; B. a certificate of nisg̱a'a lisims government certifying that, on the Date of the nisg̱a'a certificate, the person named as the owner in fee Simple in the nisg̱a'a certificate is the owner of the estate in fee Simple of the parcel, and certifying that the nisg̱a'a certificate sets Out the only:
I. subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and Reservations contained in the original or any other conveyance or Disposition from the nisg̱a'a nation that are in favour of the nisg̱a'a Nation, or that are in favour of another person, Ii. estates or interests, and Iii. charges in respect of a debt owed to the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village To which the estate in fee simple of the parcel is subject; and C. registrable copies of all charges referred to in subparagraphs (b) (ii) and (b) (iii).
8.
A nisg̱a'a certificate will expire unless:
A. within seven days of the date of the nisg̱a'a certificate, the nisg̱a'a Nation applies for registration of an indefeasible title to the parcel Referred to in the nisg̱a'a certificate; and B. the registrar issues an indefeasible title to the parcel.
Registration of indefeasible title 9.
If the nisg̱a'a nation makes an application for the registration of Indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands under paragraph 5, the Registrar, on being satisfied that:
A. a good safe holding and marketable title in fee simple for the parcel Has been established by the nisg̱a'a nation; B. the boundaries of the parcel are sufficiently defined by the Description provided by the nisg̱a'a nation; C. all of the estates, interests, and other charges set out in the Nisg̱a'a certificate are registrable as charges under the Land title act ; and D. the nisg̱a'a certificate is dated not more than seven days before the Date of application for registration of an indefeasible title to the Parcel
Will:
E. register the indefeasible title to the parcel; F. make a note on the indefeasible title that the parcel is nisg̱a'a Lands and may be subject to conditions, provisos, restrictions, Exceptions, and reservations in favour of nisg̱a'a nation; G. register as charges the estates and interests set out in subparagraph 7 (b) (ii) and the other charges set out in subparagraph 7 (b) (iii); And
H. provide a copy of the indefeasible title to nisg̱a'a lisims Government.
10.
The registrar is entitled to rely on, and is not required to make any Inquiries in respect of, the matters certified in the nisg̱a'a Certificate.
Deprivation of estate 11.
A person deprived of an estate, interest, condition, proviso, Restriction, exception, or reservation, or a certificate of possession Referred to in paragraph 33 or 34 of the lands chapter, in or to a Parcel of nisg̱a'a lands as a result of the reliance by the registrar on A nisg̱a'a certificate, and the issuance by the registrar of an Indefeasible title based on the nisg̱a'a certificate, will have no Recourse, at law or in equity, including no action for possession or Recovery of land, against the registrar, the assurance fund, or any Person named in the nisg̱a'a certificate, and the indefeasible title Issued by the registrar in reliance on the nisg̱a'a certificate as the Owner of the estate in fee simple or as the owner of an estate, Interest, condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or reservation, Subject to the right of a person to show:
A. fraud, including forgery, in which the owner of the estate in fee Simple or the owner of the estate, interest, condition, proviso, Restriction, exception, or reservation as set out in the nisg̱a'a Certificate and the indefeasible title issued by the registrar in Reliance on the nisg̱a'a certificate has participated in any degree; or B. that the owner of the estate in fee simple or the owner of the Estate, interest, condition, proviso, restriction, exception, or Reservation as set out in the nisg̱a'a certificate and the indefeasible Title issued by the registrar in reliance on the nisg̱a'a certificate has Derived their right or title otherwise than in good faith and for value.
12.
No title adverse to, or in derogation of, the title of the registered Owner of a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands under the Land title act Will be acquired by length of possession and, for greater certainty, Subsection 23 (4) of the Land title act Does not apply in respect of nisg̱a'a lands.
Cancellation of indefeasible title 13.
The nisg̱a'a nation, and no other person, may apply under the Land title act In accordance with this chapter for cancellation of the registration of An indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands.
14.
The nisg̱a'a nation, when applying under the Land title act In accordance with this chapter for the cancellation of the registration Of an indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands, will provide to The registrar an application for cancellation of registration and will Deliver to the registrar any duplicate indefeasible title that may have Been issued in respect of that parcel.
15.
Upon receiving an application from the nisg̱a'a nation for cancellation Of the registration of an indefeasible title to a parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 13 and 14, and if:
A. the registered owner of the estate in fee simple to the parcel is the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation, and Consents; and B. the indefeasible title to the parcel is free and clear of all Charges, except those in favour of the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a Village
The registrar will cancel the registration of the indefeasible title.
Application of provincial torrens system 16.
When the provincial torrens system applies to a parcel of nisg̱a'a lands:
A. the jurisdiction of nisg̱a'a lisims government or a nisg̱a'a village Government is not diminished, except to the extent set out in this Agreement;
B. with respect to the Land title act , the powers, rights, privileges, capacities, duties, and obligations, Set out in or pursuant to this agreement, of:
I. the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village under the Land title act Will be analogous to those of the crown, a municipality, or regional District, as the case may be, under that act, and Ii. nisg̱a'a lisims government or a nisg̱a'a village government under the Land title act Will be analogous to those of the provincial government or a municipal Council, regional district board, or improvement district trustee, as The case may be, under that act, and C. the status and treatment of nisg̱a'a village lands, or nisg̱a'a lands Other than nisg̱a'a village lands, under the Land title act Will be analogous to that of municipal lands or rural areas, as the case May be, under that act.
17.
The following are a limited number of examples of proposed amendments to The
Land title act , as that act was on august 1, 1998, required to give effect to Paragraph 16:
A. the following paragraphs will be added to subsection 23 (2):
"(k) the subsisting conditions, provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and Reservations, including royalties, contained in the original disposition Or any other disposition from the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village;" "(l) a nisg̱a'a nation tax, rate, or assessment at the date of the Application for registration imposed or made a lien or that may after That date be imposed or made a lien on the land;" B. in paragraph 23 (2) (f) the word "act" will, with reference to a Right of expropriation but not with reference to an escheat, include any Nisg̱a'a law; C. division 3 of part 7 will be modified to provide for the appointment Of an approving officer by nisg̱a'a lisims government for nisg̱a'a lands; D. in paragraph 83 (1) (a) the word "municipality" will include a Nisg̱a'a village, and in paragraph 83 (1) (b) the words "rural area" will Include nisg̱a'a lands other than nisg̱a'a village lands; E. in paragraphs 99 (1) (f) and 218 (1) (a) the word "crown" will Include nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village; F. in paragraphs 99 (1) (h) and 218 (1) (b) the word "municipality" will Include nisg̱a'a village; G. in paragraph 107 (1) (d) the word "enactment" will include any Nisg̱a'a law, and the words "crown in right of the province" in respect Of a highway, park or public square within nisg̱a'a lands will include Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village but in respect of land covered by Water will not include nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village; and H. in subsection 262 (1) the word "act" will include nisg̱a'a laws, and The word "crown" will include nisg̱a'a nation, and the words "crown in Right of the province" will include nisg̱a'a nation.
Chapter 5
Forest resources Definitions
1.
In this chapter and in appendix h:
"agreement under the Forest act " Means a major licence or timber sale licence that, before the effective Date, provided for the harvesting of timber on nisg̱a'a lands; "former nisg̱a'a indian reserves" Means those lands within nisg̱a'a lands that were nisg̱a'a indian reserves On the day before the effective date as identified in appendix a-4, and All category a lands; "forest practices legislation" Means the Forest practices code of british columbia act , the Forest act , or any regulation under those acts; "forest practices" Means timber harvesting and related activities, including silviculture, And road construction, modification, maintenance, and deactivation; "forest standards" Means the performance requirements or constraints associated with a Forest practice; "forestry transition committee" Means the committee established under paragraph 32 of this chapter; "licence" Means an agreement issued by british columbia, in the nature of a forest Licence or a timber sale licence, that provides for the harvesting of Timber on nisg̱a'a lands during the transition period; "nisg̱a'a contractor" Means a full phase logging contractor whose operations and direction are Effectively controlled by the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a Nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen; "non-timber forest resources" Means all forest resources other than timber or timber resources; "timber" Or
"timber resources" Means trees, whether living, standing, dead, fallen, limbed, bucked, or Peeled;
"transition period" Means the five year period commencing on the effective date; and "transition year" Means a one year period commencing on the effective date, or any Anniversary of the effective date, within the transition period.
Interpretation
2.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, words and expressions used in This chapter and in appendix h that are not defined in this agreement Have the meaning given to them in forest practices legislation.
Ownership of resources 3.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation owns all forest resources on Nisg̱a'a lands.
4.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government has the exclusive authority to determine, Collect, and administer any fees, rents, royalties, or other charges in Respect of:
A. non-timber forest resources on nisg̱a'a lands; B. timber resources referred to in paragraphs 20 and 21; and C. after the transition period, all timber resources on nisg̱a'a lands.
Applicable laws and standards Forest practices and standards 5.
During the transition period, forest practices legislation applies to Activities and obligations of:
A. the holder of an agreement under the Forest act On nisg̱a'a lands as if nisg̱a'a lands were crown land; and B. the holder of a licence within the area covered by its forest Development plan on nisg̱a'a lands as if nisg̱a'a lands were crown land.
6.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws in respect of the management of Timber resources on nisg̱a'a lands, that will take effect on the Effective date.
7.
Laws made under paragraph 6 do not apply to:
A. activities and obligations referred to in paragraph 5; and B. fire control and suppression activities for which british columbia is Responsible under paragraphs 57 and 59.
8.
Laws made under paragraph 6 will include forest standards that meet or Exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation Applicable to crown land, and will include forest standards in respect Of the following subject areas if these subject areas are addressed in Forest practices legislation:
A. riparian management; B. cut block design and distribution; C. road construction, maintenance and deactivation; D. reforestation; E. soil conservation; F. biodiversity; G. hazard abatement, fire preparedness and initial fire suppression; H. silvicultural systems and logging methods; and I. forest health.
9.
In a determination of whether forest standards established under Paragraph 6 meet or exceed forest standards established under forest Practices legislation applicable to crown land, the subject areas Referred to in paragraph 8 will be compared collectively.
10.
Forest standards established under paragraph 6 will be deemed to meet or Exceed forest standards established under forest practices legislation Applicable to crown land, if they are no more intrusive to the Environment than the forest standards applicable to crown land Established under forest practices legislation.
11.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of non-timber forest Resources on nisg̱a'a lands, including establishing standards to regulate Harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources, provided That the standards meet or exceed any federal or provincial standards Established under legislation to regulate, on private land, the Harvesting and conservation of non-timber forest resources.
12.
The parties may negotiate arrangements to achieve coordination and Administrative efficiencies in respect of matters such as timber Harvesting plans, road building, forest health concerns, forest fire Detection and suppression, non-timber forest resources, and the Protection of fisheries habitat.
Timber marking and timber scaling 13.
Subject to paragraph 14, provincial laws in respect of timber scaling Apply to timber harvested on nisg̱a'a lands.
14.
After the transition period, nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws Compatible with provincial laws in respect of timber scaling.
15.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government makes laws under paragraph 14, nisg̱a'a Lisims government will, on or before march 31 of each year, provide to British columbia a report on the volume of timber harvested during the Preceding year from nisg̱a'a lands, by species, grade, and timber mark.
16.
Provincial laws in respect of timber marks apply to timber harvested on Nisg̱a'a lands.
Timber harvesting Timber harvesting rates 17.
Subject to the cut control provisions in appendix h, the volume of Timber that may be harvested on nisg̱a'a lands, other than former nisg̱a'a Indian reserves, during the nine year period commencing on the effective Date, is:
A. year 1   165,000 m 3 ; B. year 2   165,000 m 3 ; C. year 3   165,000 m 3 ; D. year 4   165,000 m 3 ; E. year 5   165,000 m 3 ; F. year 6   135,000 m 3 ; G. year 7   135,000 m 3 ; H. year 8   135,000 m 3 ; and I. year 9   130,000 m 3 .
18.
On the effective date, or as soon as is practicable, british columbia Will apportion among the holders of licences the volume of timber to be Harvested on nisg̱a'a lands, other than former nisg̱a'a indian reserves, By the holders of licences during the transition period as follows:
A. year 1   155,000 m 3 ; B. year 2   155,000 m 3 ; C. year 3   155,000 m 3 ; D. year 4   135,000 m 3 ; and E. year 5   125,000 m 3 .
19.
During the transition period, the aggregate volume of timber to be Harvested by holders of licences from that portion of the Ksi hlginx (ishkheenickh) Watershed that is within nisg̱a'a lands will not exceed 210,000 m 3 .
20.
During the transition period, the nisg̱a'a nation, subject to this Agreement, may authorize the harvest of the volumes of timber from Nisg̱a'a lands, other than former nisg̱a'a indian reserves as follows:
A. year 1   10,000 m 3 ; B. year 2   10,000 m 3 ; C. year 3   10,000 m 3 ; D. year 4   30,000 m 3 ; and E. year 5   40,000 m 3 .
21.
In addition to the volumes specified in paragraph 20, the nisg̱a'a nation May authorize the harvest of:
A. any overcut or accumulated undercut volumes of timber determined Under and in accordance with appendix h; and B. timber from former nisg̱a'a indian reserves.
22.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government, in accordance with nisg̱a'a laws, including Any cut control provisions, will authorize the harvest of volumes of Timber from nisg̱a'a lands for years six through nine after the effective Date as follows:
A. year 6   135,000 m 3 ; B. year 7   135,000 m 3 ; C. year 8   135,000 m 3 ; and D. year 9   130,000 m 3 .
23.
The nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia may negotiate agreements in Respect of matters such as the rate of harvest of timber resources on Nisg̱a'a lands.
24.
The nisg̱a'a nation will make timber harvested under paragraph 20 and Subparagraph 21 (a) reasonably available to local mills.
Timber harvesting rights existing before the effective date 25.
Except as provided in appendix h, british columbia will ensure that on The effective date any portion of:
A. any agreement under the Forest act ; and B. any plan, permit or authorization associated with any agreement under The
Forest act That applies to nisg̱a'a lands, ceases to be valid.
26.
Timber harvesting rights under a licence or permit granted under the Indian timber regulations in respect of former nisg̱a'a indian reserves Expire on the effective date.
Timber harvesting rights during the transition period 27.
British columbia may enter into a licence with a person who was the Holder of an agreement under the Forest act To allow for the harvesting of some or all of that volume of timber on Nisg̱a'a lands referred to in paragraph 18.
28.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a major licence Will:
A. have similar terms and conditions as a non-replaceable forest Licence, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:
I. the date that was specified in the agreement under the Forest act , Ii. the end of the transition period, or Iii. the cancellation of the licence; B. if the licence replaces a portion of a tree farm licence, provide That the holder of the licence may not harvest timber outside of that Portion of nisg̱a'a lands that was included in the area of the tree farm Licence unless requested to do so by the forestry transition committee; And
C. require the holder of the licence to use nisg̱a'a contractors under Full phase logging contracts in accordance with appendix h.
29.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 that replaces a timber sale Licence will have similar terms and conditions as the licence it Replaces, except that the new licence will expire on the earliest of:
A. the date that was specified in the agreement under the Forest act ; B. the end of the transition period; or C. the cancellation of the licence.
Operational plans and permits during the transition period 30.
During the transition period, the operational planning and performance Requirements contained in appendix h apply to timber harvesting and Related activities on nisg̱a'a lands.
31.
Except as set out in this agreement, british columbia will not:
A. approve plans or issue permits under forest practices legislation in Respect of nisg̱a'a lands; or B. allow the holders of licences to carry out timber harvesting or Related activities on nisg̱a'a lands.
32.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia will Establish the forestry transition committee and will each appoint one Member to that committee.
33.
The forestry transition committee has, in respect of nisg̱a'a lands, sole Authority to approve, extend or issue, or to exempt the requirement for:
A. forest development plans and amendments in respect of timber Harvesting and related activities to be carried out during the Transition period; B. silviculture prescriptions and amendments submitted by the holder of A licence for harvesting proposed for the fourth and fifth years of the Transition period; C. all cutting permits and road permits required by the holder of a Licence to carry out timber harvesting and related activities during the Fifth year of the transition period; and D. all road use permits required during the transition period.
34.
The forestry transition committee may exempt a person from any Requirement to comply with operational planning constraints specified in Appendix h.
35.
The forestry transition committee may impose conditions on any exemption Referred to in paragraph 33 or 34.
36.
British columbia has the authority to approve, extend or issue, or to Exempt the requirement for, prescriptions and permits referred to in This agreement that are:
A. required by the holder of a licence; and B. not referred to in paragraph 33.
37.
British columbia may impose conditions on any exemption referred to in Paragraph 36.
38.
The forestry transition committee will make its decisions by consensus, And any dispute between the members of the forestry transition committee Arising out of the performance of its duties will be finally determined By arbitration in accordance with appendix h.
39.
The member of the forestry transition committee who acts on behalf of The nisg̱a'a nation, or an arbitrator in an arbitration referred to in Paragraph 38, will have the same immunities from liability as a district Manager under forest practices legislation.
Performance obligations 40.
Notwithstanding paragraph 25, british columbia will ensure that all Obligations in respect of harvested areas and roads constructed on Nisg̱a'a lands imposed under agreements under the Forest act Or the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.
41.
Notwithstanding the expiry, surrender, suspension, or cancellation of a Licence, british columbia will ensure that all obligations imposed under The licence and the forest practices legislation are fulfilled.
42.
British columbia will fulfill on nisg̱a'a lands all obligations imposed Under forest practices legislation for the small business forest Enterprise program.
43.
The nisg̱a'a nation will:
A. determine which roads that require deactivation under forest Practices legislation will not require deactivation; and B. notify in writing the person responsible for the road that Deactivation of the road is not required.
44.
Notice under paragraph 43 will be given as soon as practicable after the Person responsible for the road advises the nisg̱a'a nation that they Intend to deactivate the road.
45.
All roads that are required to be deactivated will be deactivated:
A. as soon as practicable after the end of the transition period; or B. if they are required for carrying out silviculture obligations, as Soon as practicable after the completion of those obligations.
46.
The nisg̱a'a nation will provide access to nisg̱a'a lands to holders of Agreements under the Forest act , to holders of licences and to british columbia so that they may Fulfill the obligations referred to in paragraphs 40 to 42 and 45.
Compliance and enforcement 47.
During the transition period, british columbia is responsible for Enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on nisg̱a'a lands By holders of agreements under the Forest act And by holders of licences.
48.
British columbia will ensure that the holders of agreements under the Forest act And the holders of licences comply with the requirements of their Agreements and licences.
49.
After the transition period, british columbia is responsible for Enforcing compliance with forest practices legislation on nisg̱a'a lands By holders of agreements under the Forest act And by holders of licences for obligations referred to in paragraphs 40 To 42 and 45.
50.
If british columbia determines that a holder of an agreement or a holder Of a licence has contravened forest practices legislation by harvesting Timber without proper authority, british columbia will levy a penalty Against the holder equal to:
A. british columbia's determination of the stumpage and bonus bid that Would have been payable had the volume of timber been sold under section 20 of the Forest act ; and B. twice british columbia's determination of the market value of logs And special forest products that were, or could have been, produced from The timber.
51.
During the transition period, if a penalty other than a performance Penalty is imposed on a person for a contravention of forest practices Legislation on or affecting nisg̱a'a lands, british columbia will pay to The nisg̱a'a nation an amount equivalent to the portion of that penalty That is imposed in respect of the contravention on or affecting nisg̱a'a Lands.
52.
During the transition period, if a performance penalty is imposed on a Person for a contravention of forest practices legislation on nisg̱a'a Lands, british columbia will pay to the nisg̱a'a nation an amount Equivalent to the portion of that penalty that is imposed and collected In respect of the contravention on nisg̱a'a lands, less the reasonable Costs associated with imposing that penalty.
53.
During the transition period, the nisg̱a'a nation may commence, or Intervene in, an appeal to the forest appeals commission in respect of:
A. a determination of whether a person has contravened forest practices Legislation on or affecting nisg̱a'a lands; or B. the determination of whether to impose a penalty referred to in Paragraphs 51 and 52 and the amount of that penalty.
54.
During the transition period, the powers of the forest practices board Set out in forest practices legislation in respect of complaints, audits And special reports apply on nisg̱a'a lands to holders of agreements Under the Forest act And to holders of licences.
55.
During the transition period, the forest practices board will perform an Annual audit of compliance with and enforcement of forest practices Legislation on nisg̱a'a lands.
56.
The nisg̱a'a nation is responsible for enforcing compliance with laws Made under paragraphs 6 and 11.
Forest fires and forest health Forest fire control and suppression on nisg̱a'a lands 57.
During the transition period, british columbia is responsible for the Control and suppression of forest fires on nisg̱a'a lands:
A. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for The control and suppression of forest fires on crown land elsewhere in British columbia; and B. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority To the control and suppression of forest fires on crown land elsewhere In british columbia.
58.
During the transition period, canada will pay the costs incurred by British columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires that Originate on former nisg̱a'a indian reserves on the same basis as would Have applied if the former nisg̱a'a indian reserves had remained indian Reserves under the Indian act .
59.
After the transition period, british columbia is responsible for control And suppression of forest fires on nisg̱a'a public lands:
A. to the same extent and in the same manner as it is responsible for The control and suppression of forest fires on crown land elsewhere in British columbia; and B. by using the same priority assessment that it uses to assign priority To the control and suppression of forest fires on crown land elsewhere In british columbia.
60.
After the transition period, the nisg̱a'a nation will be responsible for The control and suppression of forest fires on nisg̱a'a village lands and On nisg̱a'a private lands.
61.
After the transition period, the nisg̱a'a nation will pay the costs Incurred by british columbia in controlling and suppressing forest fires On nisg̱a'a public lands if the forest fire:
A. originates on nisg̱a'a public lands and is caused by an act of god or An industrial user authorized by the nisg̱a'a nation; B. originates on crown land and is caused by an act of god; C. originates on private land and is caused by an act of god; or D. originates on nisg̱a'a village lands or on nisg̱a'a private lands.
Forest health 62.
Except for the responsibilities of the holders of licences set out in Appendix h, the nisg̱a'a nation is responsible for forest health on Nisg̱a'a lands.
63.
If a forest health problem on nisg̱a'a lands threatens forest resources On adjacent crown land:
A. british columbia may notify the nisg̱a'a nation of the nature, extent And location of the forest health problem; B. if the nisg̱a'a nation receives notice under subparagraph (a), it Will, within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate The forest health problem; C. if the nisg̱a'a nation does not meet its obligation under subparagraph (b), british columbia, after providing reasonable notice to the nisg̱a'a Nation, may enter onto nisg̱a'a lands and carry out reasonable measures, Consistent with nisg̱a'a laws made under paragraphs 6 and 11, to mitigate The forest health problem; D. british columbia will use, to the extent that they are available and Qualified, nisg̱a'a citizens to carry out measures under subparagraph (c); and E. the nisg̱a'a nation will reimburse british columbia for all reasonable Costs incurred by british columbia in carrying out measures under Subparagraph (c).
64.
If british columbia becomes aware of forest health problems on crown Land that threaten forest resources on nisg̱a'a lands, british columbia Will:
A. within a reasonable time, take all reasonable measures to mitigate The identified forest health problem; and B. compensate the nisg̱a'a nation for any damage to forest resources on Nisg̱a'a lands that result from its failure to meet its obligation under Subparagraph (a).
Timber processing 65.
Provincial laws in respect of manufacture in british columbia of timber Harvested from crown land apply to timber harvested from nisg̱a'a lands.
66.
The nisg̱a'a nation may apply to british columbia to export timber Harvested from nisg̱a'a lands.
67.
During the transition period, british columbia will approve an Application referred to in paragraph 66 if the application is in Accordance with provincial laws and policies.
68.
Paragraph 65 does not apply in respect of timber harvested from former Nisg̱a'a indian reserves during the transition period.
69.
Timber harvested from former nisg̱a'a indian reserves during the Transition period may be exported in accordance with federal laws as if The timber had been harvested from a "reserve" as defined in the Indian act .
70.
The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation will not Establish a primary timber processing facility for 10 years after the Effective date.
71.
Paragraph 70 does not preclude the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or A nisg̱a'a corporation from:
A. establishing a timber processing facility to provide lumber for use By the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, nisg̱a'a institutions, a Nisg̱a'a corporation, or nisg̱a'a citizens for residential or public Purposes;
B. conducting value-added timber processing; or C. entering into any partnership or joint venture with the owner of an Existing timber processing facility.
Economic considerations Same economic position 72.
British columbia, in accordance with appendix h, will make payments to The nisg̱a'a nation in respect of timber harvested by holders of licences During the transition period.
Restoration
73.
British columbia and canada recognize that the present and anticipated Efforts of the nisg̱a'a nation to restore watersheds within the nass area Are consistent with the objectives of forest renewal british columbia.
74.
The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen may apply for funding for restoration of nisg̱a'a lands Under federal, provincial, or crown corporation programs, in accordance With requirements and guidelines of those programs.
Forest resources outside nisg̱a'a lands Forest management 75.
Canada or british columbia will provide the nisg̱a'a nation, through the Joint fisheries management committee and the wildlife committee, the Information concerning forest development plans applicable to all or Part of the nass area that is provided to the ministries or departments Of canada and british columbia participating on those committees.
Forest tenures 76.
British columbia agrees in principle to an acquisition by the nisg̱a'a Nation of a forest tenure or tenures having an aggregate allowable Annual cut of up to 150,000 m 3 .
77.
An acquisition referred to in paragraph 76 will require approval by the Minister of forests in accordance with the Forest act .
78.
The minister of forests supports, and will approve, an acquisition Referred to in paragraph 76 if the minister is satisfied that:
A. there has been a public process, in accordance with ministry policy On tenure transfers and corporate concentration, that identifies public Interests in relation to those matters; and B. the tenure or tenures contain terms and conditions that address local Employment and economic opportunities, including those in the nass area, And regional fibre supply needs.
79.
In addition to the requirements set out in paragraphs 77 and 78, if the Tenure to be acquired by the nisg̱a'a nation is a tree farm licence, the Approval of the minister of forests will be conditional upon the Agreement by the nisg̱a'a nation to the inclusion of a portion of nisg̱a'a Lands as schedule a lands within the tree farm licence.
80.
The portion of nisg̱a'a lands to be included as schedule a lands within a Tree farm licence will be:
A. negotiated at the time of the tree farm licence acquisition; and B. based on appropriate management considerations.
81.
Nothing in this agreement limits the ability of the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a nisg̱a'a citizen to acquire A forest tenure under the Forest act .
82.
A forest tenure referred to in paragraph 76 or 81 that is acquired by The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen, is subject to federal and provincial laws of general Application.
Chapter 6
Access
Nisg̱a'a public lands Nisg̱a'a rights and obligations 1.
Except as modified by this agreement, the nisg̱a'a nation, as owner of Nisg̱a'a lands, has the same rights and obligations in respect of public Access to nisg̱a'a lands as other owners of estates in fee simple have in Respect of public access to their land, and in respect of nisg̱a'a public Lands, the nisg̱a'a nation has liabilities similar to those of the crown In respect of unoccupied crown land.
Reasonable public access 2.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will allow reasonable public access to and Onto nisg̱a'a public lands for temporary non-commercial and recreational Uses, but public access does not include:
A. harvesting or extracting resources unless authorized by nisg̱a'a Lisims government or as set out in this chapter; B. causing damage to nisg̱a'a lands or resources; C. causing mischief or nuisance; or D. interfering with other uses authorized by nisg̱a'a lisims government, Or interfering with the ability of nisg̱a'a lisims government to Authorize uses of or dispose of nisg̱a'a public lands, or to designate Nisg̱a'a public lands as nisg̱a'a private lands or nisg̱a'a village lands.
3.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in accordance with the nisg̱a'a Government chapter regulating public access to and onto nisg̱a'a public Lands, for purposes such as:
A. public safety; B. the prevention of nuisance or damage, including fires; C. the protection of sensitive habitat areas or heritage sites; and D. the prevention of harvesting or extracting of resources.
Public access for hunting and fishing on nisg̱a'a public lands 4.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will provide reasonable opportunities for the Public to hunt and fish on nisg̱a'a public lands but, as the nisg̱a'a Nation is the owner of the land on the effective date, only nisg̱a'a Citizens have the right to hunt and fish on nisg̱a'a lands.
5.
Hunting and fishing by the public under paragraph 4 will be in Accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7, federal and provincial laws of General application, annual management plans, and any laws enacted by Nisg̱a'a lisims government regulating public access.
6.
An annual management plan will specify the level of harvest of each Designated species, and any other species that the minister and nisg̱a'a Lisims government agree should be included in the annual management Plan, that may be harvested on nisg̱a'a public lands by persons other Than nisg̱a'a citizens, having regard to nisg̱a'a preferences for Harvesting wildlife under nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements on nisg̱a'a Lands, and the availability of that species in the rest of the nass Wildlife area.
7.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may, for the purpose of monitoring and Regulating public access for hunting and fishing under paragraph 4, Require persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens to obtain a permit or Licence. those permits or licences will be reasonably available at a Reasonable fee taking into account the administrative and other costs of The monitoring and regulating.
Notice of terms and conditions in respect of public access 8.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and british columbia will take reasonable Measures to notify the public of terms and conditions in respect of Public access to and onto nisg̱a'a public lands.
9.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will consult with canada and british columbia In respect of any proposed nisg̱a'a laws that would significantly affect The regulation of public access to and onto nisg̱a'a public lands.
10.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will notify canada and british columbia of the Location and boundaries of nisg̱a'a village lands and nisg̱a'a private Lands.
11.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government intends to change the locations or Boundaries of nisg̱a'a village lands or nisg̱a'a private lands, it will Provide reasonable notice to british columbia and canada of the proposed Changes.
12.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government intends to change the locations or Boundaries of nisg̱a'a village lands or nisg̱a'a private lands, it will Take reasonable steps to notify the public, and it will consider any Views advanced in respect of the proposed changes by any individual who Would be adversely affected, but the changes may not be set aside on the Ground of insufficient notice.
Alternative access 13.
If the designation of nisg̱a'a public lands as nisg̱a'a village lands or Nisg̱a'a private lands has the effect of preventing public access to an Area or location to which there is a public right of access under Federal or provincial laws of general application such as navigable Waters or crown roads, nisg̱a'a lisims government will provide reasonable Alternative means of public access to that area or location.
Navigable waters 14.
This agreement does not affect public rights of access on navigable Waters within nisg̱a'a lands.
Crown access to nisg̱a'a lands 15.
Agents, employees, and contractors of canada or british columbia, police Officers appointed under federal or provincial legislation, and members Of the canadian armed forces, in accordance with federal and provincial Laws of general application, may enter, cross, and stay temporarily on Nisg̱a'a lands to deliver and manage programs and services, to carry out Inspections under law, to enforce laws, to carry out the terms of this Agreement, and to respond to emergencies.
16.
Canada or british columbia will give reasonable notice of entry onto Nisg̱a'a lands under paragraphs 15 or 17 to the nisg̱a'a nation:
A. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or B. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.
17.
This agreement does not limit the authority of canada or the minister of National defence to carry out activities related to national defence and Security, in accordance with federal laws of general application.
18.
Canada will give reasonable notice of entry onto the nass area under Paragraph 17 to the nisg̱a'a nation:
A. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or B. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.
19.
Persons who enter, cross, and stay temporarily on nisg̱a'a lands under Paragraphs 15 or 17 are subject to nisg̱a'a laws except to the extent That those laws unduly interfere with the carrying out of their duties, And they are not subject to payment of fees or compensation except as Required by federal or provincial law in respect of the payment of fees Or compensation for access on land owned in fee simple.
Nisg̱a'a access to other lands 20.
Agents, employees, and contractors of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a Villages, and nisg̱a'a corporations, and members of the nisg̱a'a police Service, in accordance with laws of general application, may enter, Cross, and stay temporarily on lands off of nisg̱a'a lands to deliver and Manage government programs and services, to carry out inspections under Law, to enforce laws, to carry out the terms of this agreement, and to Respond to emergencies.
21.
Persons who enter, cross, and stay temporarily on lands under paragraph 20 are not subject to payment of fees or compensation except to the Extent that federal or provincial law requires the payment of fees or Compensation by or on behalf of agents, employees, or contractors of Federal or provincial governments.
22.
The nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, or nisg̱a'a corporations will give Reasonable notice of entry onto lands under paragraph 20 to canada or British columbia as the case may be:
A. before the entry if it is practicable to do so; or B. in any event, as soon as practicable after the entry.
23.
Nisg̱a'a citizens will have reasonable access to and onto crown lands That are outside of nisg̱a'a lands, including streams and highways, to Allow for the exercise of nisg̱a'a rights set out in this agreement and For the normal use and enjoyment of nisg̱a'a interests set out in this Agreement, including the use of resources for purposes incidental to the Normal use and enjoyment of those rights or interests, provided that This access does not interfere with other authorized uses or the ability Of the crown to authorize uses or dispose of crown land.
24.
If an authorized use or disposition of crown land would deny nisg̱a'a Citizens reasonable access or use of resources, as contemplated by Paragraph 23, the crown will ensure that alternative reasonable access Is provided.
Access to fee simple properties 25.
If the owner of a parcel of land identified in schedule 1 of appendix B-2 reasonably requires a right of access to that parcel, nisg̱a'a Government may not unreasonably withhold consent to that right of access If:
A. the owner of the parcel offers fair compensation; and B. the owner of the parcel and nisg̱a'a government agree on the terms of Access.
26.
If the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a corporation, or a Nisg̱a'a citizen reasonably requires a right of access to a parcel of Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, british columbia may not unreasonably withhold Consent to that access if:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a village, nisg̱a'a corporation or nisg̱a'a Citizen offers fair compensation; and B. the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a village, nisg̱a'a corporation or nisg̱a'a Citizen and british columbia agree on the terms of access.
27.
British columbia or nisg̱a'a lisims government may refer a dispute Respecting consent to a right of access, terms of access, or fairness of Compensation under paragraph 25 or 26 to be finally determined by Binding arbitration under the dispute resolution chapter.
Chapter 7
Roads and rights of way Rights of way general British columbia rights of way area on effective date 1.
On the effective date, the total rights of way area of the british Columbia rights of way is deemed to equal 800 hectares, and this total Is the basis of calculations under paragraph 2.
Additional public rights of way 2.
After the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, on Request by british columbia, will grant to british columbia, or to a Public utility, rights of way on nisg̱a'a lands for public purposes, Including provincial secondary roads or public utilities, in order to Provide access or service to nisg̱a'a lands or other lands, subject to The following:
A. any grant must be on reasonable terms including the location of the Requested right of way, its width considering the intended use, its Effect on neighbouring lands, and payment of fair compensation; B. british columbia is not entitled to a grant under this paragraph if, On the date of the request, the total of the rights of way areas of all British columbia rights of way plus the area of the requested grant Would exceed the aggregate right of way maximum; C. if any british columbia right of way, or a portion of a british Columbia right of way, terminates, the right of way area of the Terminated right of way will be excluded from the calculation of the Total of the rights of way areas of all the british columbia rights of Way for the purposes of calculating british columbia's entitlement in Respect of the aggregate right of way maximum; and D. if any dispute arises between british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation Or a nisg̱a'a village in respect of the rights or obligations of either British columbia, the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village under this Paragraph, including a dispute in respect of british columbia's Entitlement to the grant of a right of way for itself or for a public Utility, or a dispute in respect of the terms of the grant, then any Party to that dispute may refer the dispute to be finally determined by Arbitration under stage three of the dispute resolution chapter without Having to proceed through stage two. the arbitrator's decision will be Final on all matters in dispute, but the arbitrator will not have the Authority to require british columbia or a public utility to accept a Grant of a right of way.
Preservation of right to grant rights of way and approve survey plans 3.
The nisg̱a'a nation, and each nisg̱a'a village, will preserve their Respective rights to grant rights of way to british columbia or a public Utility on all nisg̱a'a lands, and to approve all survey plans as set out In paragraph 5.
Ownership of works and plant 4.
Subject to any express provision, in respect of ownership, in a grant of A right of way, all works, including road surfacing, bridges, drainage Works, public utility poles, wiring and related plant, underground Piping, conduits and related plant, that are located on that right of Way area:
A. are the property of the grantee of that grant from the nisg̱a'a nation Or a nisg̱a'a village, for the duration of the grant; and B. become the property of the nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village upon the Termination of the grant.
Approval of survey plans 5.
For each grant of a right of way given on the effective date, the Detailed location and dimensions of the right of way area will be deemed To be described conclusively in survey plans approved by the nisg̱a'a Nation and the grantee, as follows:
A. a survey plan attached to a grant given on the effective date will be Deemed to be approved by the nisg̱a'a nation and the grantee; and B. for any portion of a right of way area that is not described in any Survey plan attached to the grant given on the effective date, either The nisg̱a'a nation or the grantee may deliver to the other, at any time, A survey plan for approval in writing. if approval is not given within 30 days, then the nisg̱a'a nation or the grantee may refer the matter in Dispute to dispute resolution for final determination, as set out in the Grant.
Application of nisg̱a'a law 6.
Nisg̱a'a laws apply to secondary provincial road rights of way areas, Public utility rights of way areas, and works under licence to british Columbia or a public utility from the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a Village, to the extent that the nisg̱a'a laws do not:
A. impair the ability to use and occupy a right of way area for the Purposes for which the right of way was granted; B. specify a more stringent standard of design or operation for road or Utility works that are on a right of way area, or under licence, than is Set out in federal or provincial laws of general application in british Columbia; or C. impair the ability to use any works under licence for the purposes For which the licence was granted.
7.
Any right of way, other interest, or licence, granted under this chapter On the effective date, will be in the applicable form set out in Appendix c-3 or c-4 and will include any modification agreed upon in Writing before the effective date by the nisg̱a'a tribal council and the Person entitled to the right of way, other interest, or licence.
Nisg̱a'a highway Ownership of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor 8.
As of the effective date, british columbia owns the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor to use as a public highway, and the parties will execute Documents and take reasonable steps to the extent necessary to provide British columbia administration, control, and ownership of the nisg̱a'a Highway corridor.
Description of nisg̱a'a highway corridor 9.
As of the effective date, the nisg̱a'a highway corridor consists of the Lands set out in schedule a. the detailed location and dimensions of the Nisg̱a'a highway corridor are deemed to be described conclusively in Survey plans approved by the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia, as Follows:
A. on or after the effective date, either the nisg̱a'a nation or british Columbia may deliver to the other a survey plan of all or any portion of The nisg̱a'a highway corridor for approval by the other in writing; and B. if approval is not given within 30 days, then either the nisg̱a'a Nation or british columbia may refer the matter to be finally determined By arbitration under stage three of the dispute resolution chapter.
Nisg̱a'a highway corridor dimensions 10.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 9, The width of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor is 30 metres, except that the Width is greater than 30 metres where required to include those:
A. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and B. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides, Measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut That are part of the nisg̱a'a highway existing on the effective date.
Closure of nisg̱a'a highway 11.
If british columbia discontinues and closes any portion of the nisg̱a'a Highway corridor:
A. it will transfer to the nisg̱a'a nation the estate in fee simple, as Described in paragraph 3 of the lands chapter, for that portion of the Nisg̱a'a highway corridor; B. that portion of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor will cease to be a part Of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor; and C. the nisg̱a'a nation may make that portion of the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor nisg̱a'a lands, in accordance with the process referred to in Paragraph 9 of the lands chapter.
Relocation of nisg̱a'a highway 12.
If the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village requires a portion of the Nisg̱a'a highway corridor for another purpose, the nisg̱a'a nation or that Nisg̱a'a village may request british columbia to relocate that portion of The nisg̱a'a highway corridor and, if:
A. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a highway of a Comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation, And costs; and B. the nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village pays all reasonable costs, Including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction British columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the Relocation.
13.
If a portion of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor is relocated:
A. british columbia will transfer to the nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, the estate in fee simple, as described in Paragraph 3 of the lands chapter, to that portion of the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor that is abandoned; B. that portion of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor will cease to be a part Of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor; C. the nisg̱a'a nation may make that portion of the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor nisg̱a'a lands, in accordance with the process referred to in Paragraph 9 of the lands chapter; and D. the nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, will Transfer to british columbia the estate in fee simple, as described in Paragraph 3 of the lands chapter, to the area of land in the relocated Portion of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor and that area of land will no Longer be nisg̱a'a lands.
14.
A relocation under paragraph 12 does not affect the calculation of the Total area of all british columbia rights of way.
Highway alignment 15.
British columbia will exercise its expropriation powers in respect of Fee simple lands, on the alignment of the nisg̱a'a highway, that are not Nisg̱a'a lands in the same manner as it exercises those powers in respect Of comparable highways elsewhere in british columbia.
Nisg̱a'a highway extension to highway 37 16.
British columbia will consider the extension of the nisg̱a'a highway from Nass camp to connect with highway 37, in accordance with provincial Priorities and having regard to british columbia's long term goal of Completing that extension.
Secondary provincial roads Secondary provincial roads rights of way grants 17.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation will grant to british Columbia, in accordance with this agreement, the rights of way for Secondary provincial roads as set out in appendix c-1, part 3.
Form of grant 18.
Grants for secondary provincial road rights of way on the effective date Will be substantially in the form of appendix c-4, document 1 and will Include by reference all of the provisions of this agreement that apply To secondary provincial road rights of way, which provisions will be Subject to any express provisions in the grant.
19.
Unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree, grants For secondary provincial road rights of way granted after the effective Date will be in the form and on the terms referred to in paragraph 18.
Rights and privileges 20.
A grant of a right of way for a secondary provincial road right of way Area will provide british columbia with the full, free and uninterrupted Right, liberty and right of way, in perpetuity, for the purposes of Using, constructing, re-constructing, repairing, improving, upgrading, And maintaining, as provided in this agreement:
A. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open To the public; B. a secondary provincial road on the right of way area as a road open To industrial or resource users and, as safety permits, to the public; Or
C. works for public utility purposes.
21.
The grant in paragraph 20 will provide british columbia, its employees, Representatives, agents, contractors, and permittees the right to enter Onto the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for the purposes Referred to in paragraph 20.
Secondary provincial road rights of way area dimensions 22.
Unless otherwise described in a survey plan approved under paragraph 5, The width of a secondary provincial road right of way area is 20 metres, Except that the width is greater than 20 metres where required to Include those:
A. bridges, drainage, and support works, and other road works; and B. cuts and fills, plus an additional three metres on both sides, Measured from the toe of the fill, and from the top of the cut That are part of the secondary provincial road existing on the effective Date.
Nisg̱a'a assignment of secondary provincial road 23.
The nisg̱a'a nation may not, without the written consent of british Columbia, assign or transfer any of its interest in any nisg̱a'a lands That are subject to a secondary provincial road right of way except to a Nisg̱a'a village.
24.
Upon an assignment or transfer to a nisg̱a'a village:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation will, subject to a re-transfer or re-assignment of The interest to the nisg̱a'a nation, be deemed to be released of its Obligations under the secondary provincial road right of way; and B. the nisg̱a'a village will not assign or transfer the interest to any Third party without the written consent of british columbia.
British columbia assignment of secondary provincial road 25.
British columbia may not without the written consent of the nisg̱a'a Nation assign or transfer any of its interest in any secondary Provincial road right of way area except for an assignment to:
A. a british columbia crown corporation or other british columbia Entity; or B. to a lender as security for a borrowing by british columbia And no assignment or transfer will act as a release of any of british Columbia's obligations as set out in this agreement, or delegate, alter, Or affect any of the regulatory powers of british columbia.
Indemnity for secondary provincial roads 26.
British columbia will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation and Each nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, from any:
A. costs, excluding fees and disbursements of solicitors and other Professional advisors; B. damages; C. losses; or D. liabilities That the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, respectively, may suffer Or incur in connection with, or as a result of, any claims, demands, Actions, or proceedings arising out of or relating to a secondary Provincial road right of way area, except to the extent that those Costs, damages, losses, and liabilities were caused by the nisg̱a'a Nation or that nisg̱a'a village.
Abandonment of secondary provincial roads 27.
British columbia may abandon any secondary provincial road by giving Written notice to the nisg̱a'a nation.
28.
Subject to:
A. the express provisions in the grant of a right of way of a secondary Provincial road referred to in paragraph 27; and B. agreement by the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village to assume Responsibility for that secondary provincial road British columbia will be responsible to decommission that road, remove Any structures from it, or take the steps required under federal and Provincial laws of general application that apply to comparable roads Adjacent to private lands.
29.
If, under paragraph 28, there are no applicable federal or provincial Laws of general application, british columbia will take the steps Reasonably required to protect adjacent nisg̱a'a lands and the public From damage or injury that might result from the continued existence of The secondary provincial road.
30.
The grant of a right of way will be terminated on the date set out in The termination notice given under paragraph 27, except that british Columbia's liability obligations, and obligations under paragraphs 28 And 29 existing at the date of termination, will survive the Termination.
Rights of way for secondary provincial road extensions 31.
On request of british columbia and subject to the aggregate right of way Maximum, the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village will give a grant Substantially in the form of appendix c-4, document 1 granting:
A. rights of way for secondary provincial roads for the three roads Connecting the north hoodoo road with the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a Lands as shown generally in appendix c-1, part 3; and B. rights of way to extend or add to the provincial secondary roads in Accordance with paragraph 2.
Crown roads Public utilities on crown road rights of way areas 32.
British columbia will permit public utilities to use the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor and the secondary provincial road rights of way areas to Install, operate, and maintain utility transmission and distribution Works to the extent that, in the reasonable judgement of british Columbia, those works will not interfere with the safe and prudent use Of the existing road or existing public utility works.
Other uses within crown road rights of way areas 33.
British columbia will authorize the use of the nisg̱a'a highway corridor And the secondary provincial road rights of way areas for uses other Than road and public utility uses as follows:
A. british columbia will issue a permit for a use if:
I. the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village has issued a permit for that Use, and Ii. in the reasonable judgment of british columbia, the use will be safe And will not interfere with the existing road or existing public utility Works; and B. british columbia may:
I. attach to a permit issued under subparagraph (a) conditions in Respect of safety or interference, Ii. terminate a permit issued under subparagraph (a) without Compensation if the use is unsafe or interferes with the existing or Proposed road or existing or proposed public utility works, or Iii. charge fees for a permit issued under subparagraph (a), which do Not exceed british columbia's actual reasonable costs of issuing the Permit.
Entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside crown road rights of way 34.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph 15 of the access chapter, and Subject to the provisions of a grant of a secondary provincial road Right of way, british columbia, its employees, agents, contractors, or Representatives may enter onto nisg̱a'a lands outside the nisg̱a'a highway Corridor, or outside a provincial secondary road right of way area, for The purpose of undertaking works, including:
A. constructing drainage works; B. maintaining slope stability; or C. removing danger trees or other hazards As required for the protection, care, maintenance, or construction of Road or public utility works.
35.
Before commencing any work referred to in paragraph 34, british columbia Will deliver a written work plan describing the effect and extent of the Proposed work on nisg̱a'a lands to the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a Village, as the case may be, for approval.
36.
The nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, will not Unreasonably withhold approval of the work plan delivered by british Columbia, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the Cost of the proposed work compared to the cost of alternate solutions, The extent of the risk of not undertaking the proposed work, and the Impact of the proposed work on nisg̱a'a lands.
37.
If british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, as the Case may be, do not agree on a work plan requested by british columbia Within 30 days of receipt by the nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village Of the proposed work plan, either party may refer the disagreement to be Finally determined by arbitration under stage three of the dispute Resolution chapter, without having to proceed through stage two.
38.
In undertaking works referred to in paragraph 34, british columbia will Minimize the damage to, and time spent on, nisg̱a'a lands.
39.
British columbia will pay fair compensation for any interference with, Or damage to, nisg̱a'a lands adjacent to the work referred to in Paragraph 34. either party may refer a disagreement in respect of Compensation to be finally determined by arbitration under stage three Of the dispute resolution chapter.
40.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, in an emergency, British columbia may undertake works and take steps, on nisg̱a'a lands, That are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect Works constructed on the nisg̱a'a highway corridor or a secondary Provincial road right of way area, or to protect persons or vehicles Using the nisg̱a'a highway or a secondary provincial road.
41.
In the event of an emergency referred to under paragraph 40, british Columbia will, as soon as practicable, notify the nisg̱a'a nation or the Relevant nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, in writing that it has Undertaken emergency work on nisg̱a'a lands.
Consultation regarding traffic regulation 42.
Upon request of the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, british Columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village With respect to regulation of traffic and transportation on the nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road that is adjacent to a settled Area on nisg̱a'a lands.
Access and safety regulation 43.
British columbia has the right to regulate all matters relating to:
A. the location and design of intersecting roads giving access to the Nisg̱a'a highway or secondary provincial roads, including:
I. regulating or requiring signs, signals, and other traffic control Devices on nisg̱a'a highway corridor and the secondary provincial road Rights of way areas, Ii. regulating or requiring merging lanes, on ramps and off ramps, or Iii. requiring contributions to the cost of (i) and (ii) above; and B. the height and location of structures on nisg̱a'a lands immediately Adjacent to the nisg̱a'a highway corridor, or to a secondary provincial Road right of way area, only to the extent reasonably required to Protect the safety of the users of the nisg̱a'a highway and secondary Provincial roads.
44.
Subject to other provisions of this agreement, british columbia has no Authority to zone or otherwise regulate land use on nisg̱a'a lands Adjacent to the nisg̱a'a highway corridor or secondary provincial road Rights of way areas.
45.
The nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, will Consult with british columbia on land use decisions relating to the Development of nisg̱a'a lands adjacent to the nisg̱a'a highway corridor.
Temporary closure of crown roads 46.
Subject to paragraph 47, british columbia may temporarily close a Portion of the nisg̱a'a highway or a secondary provincial road for Reasons of safety, or for reasons of care and maintenance of the nisg̱a'a Highway or a secondary provincial road.
Administration of the nisg̱a'a highway and secondary provincial roads 47.
British columbia will administer the nisg̱a'a highway and secondary Provincial roads, including closing, abandoning, and maintaining them, In the same manner as it administers comparable roads elsewhere in British columbia.
Relocation of secondary provincial roads 48.
If the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village requires a portion of a Secondary provincial road right of way area for another purpose, the Nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village may request british columbia to Relocate that portion of the right of way area, and if:
A. the new location is reasonably suitable for use as a road of a Comparable standard considering construction, maintenance, operation, And costs; and B. the nisg̱a'a nation or that nisg̱a'a village pays all reasonable costs, Including costs of design, planning, supervision, land, and construction British columbia will not unreasonably refuse to undertake the Relocation.
49.
If a portion of a right of way is relocated under paragraph 48, the Right of way will be terminated for the portion of the road right of way Area that is abandoned, and the nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village will Grant a new right of way for the relocated secondary provincial road.
50.
A relocation under paragraph 48 does not have any impact on the Calculation of the total rights of way area of british columbia rights Of way.
Maintenance
51.
Subject to any agreement between british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation Or a nisg̱a'a village in respect of a secondary provincial road, the Nisg̱a'a nation and each nisg̱a'a village has no responsibility or Liability for maintenance or repair of the nisg̱a'a highway or a Secondary provincial road.
Use of existing gravel pits on nisg̱a'a lands 52.
British columbia may enter, without charge, onto nisg̱a'a lands to Extract gravel materials from pits existing on the effective date to Construct and maintain the nisg̱a'a highway or secondary provincial Roads.
53.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, british columbia will Prepare gravel management plans for the gravel materials pits existing On the effective date as set out in schedule b, and submit them to the Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, for approval, Which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
54.
British columbia, the nisg̱a'a nation and each nisg̱a'a village will Comply with the provisions of an approved gravel management plan.
55.
Without preparing a gravel management plan, british columbia may Continue to use a gravel materials pit that is not listed in schedule b And that, as of the effective date, british columbia has been using Intermittently as a source of gravel materials for local road Maintenance, but if the rate of extraction from that pit increases Materially, british columbia will prepare a gravel management plan for That pit in accordance with paragraph 53.
Development of new gravel materials pits on nisg̱a'a lands 56.
Subject to paragraph 57, british columbia may enter, without charge, Onto nisg̱a'a lands to locate and extract sufficient quantities of Unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on Nisg̱a'a lands for use by british columbia to construct and maintain the Nisg̱a'a highway or secondary provincial roads.
57.
Before undertaking any excavation for gravel material samples or other Exploration work on nisg̱a'a lands under paragraph 56, british columbia Will prepare a written exploration plan, indicating generally the Proposed location of exploration and the method and extent of proposed Work, for approval by the nisg̱a'a nation or the nisg̱a'a village, as the Case may be, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
58.
In respect of a written exploration plan under paragraph 57:
A. british columbia will select a proposed location to explore for a Gravel materials pit, taking into account the effect of a development at That proposed location on:
I. the lands adjacent to the proposed location, and Ii. any unique attributes of the lands at the proposed location and Adjacent lands; and B. in considering whether to approve that plan, the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, will take account of the cost Efficiencies of the proposed location in relation to alternate Locations.
59.
After approval is obtained under paragraph 57 for an exploration plan, British columbia will prepare and obtain approval for a gravel Management plan in accordance with paragraph 53 before commencing the Development of any gravel materials pit.
Nisg̱a'a roads general Public use and right to close nisg̱a'a roads to public 60.
Nisg̱a'a roads will be administered as follows:
A. the nisg̱a'a nation may close to the public any portion of a nisg̱a'a Road that is not within nisg̱a'a village lands; and B. a nisg̱a'a village will permit public use of those nisg̱a'a roads on Its nisg̱a'a village lands that would be open to the public in comparable Communities elsewhere in british columbia, and accordingly may close a Nisg̱a'a road in a nisg̱a'a village for safety reasons.
Maintenance
61.
British columbia is not responsible or liable for maintenance or repair Of a nisg̱a'a road.
Development of gravel materials deposits on crown lands for nisg̱a'a Use
62.
Subject to paragraph 63, the nisg̱a'a nation may enter onto crown lands To locate and extract, without charge, sufficient quantities of Unprocessed gravel materials from natural deposits as may exist on crown Lands for use by the nisg̱a'a nation for public purposes.
63.
The rights and obligations of british columbia set out in paragraphs 52 To 59 and, as appropriate, british columbia's normal application Procedures, will apply to the nisg̱a'a nation, in respect of the Location, development, and extraction of gravel materials on crown Lands, under paragraph 62.
64.
British columbia will not unreasonably withhold approval for any Exploration plan or gravel management plan prepared and submitted by the Nisg̱a'a nation under paragraph 63.
Private roads Grant of private road rights of way as of the effective date 65.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation will grant private road rights Of way for the private roads listed in appendix c-1, part 3.
Form of grant for private road rights of way 66.
Grants for private road rights of way given on the effective date will Be substantially in the form of appendix c-4, document 2.
Termination of private rights of way 67.
Subject to the express provisions of a grant of a private road right of Way, upon the termination of the interest or right to which that private Road right of way provides access, the private road right of way will Terminate.
Utilities general Public utility rights of way as of the effective date 68.
On the effective date:
A. for public utility works located on a crown road right of way area on Nisg̱a'a lands, british columbia will be deemed to have granted the Public utility the right to use the crown road right of way area for the Installation, operation, and maintenance of the existing utility Transmission and distribution works, subject to regulation by british Columbia in the same manner as british columbia regulates public Utilities on road rights of way elsewhere in british columbia; B. for hydro works not located on a crown road right of way area, the Nisg̱a'a nation will give the grants to hydro, as set out in appendix C-1, part 2, substantially in the form set out in appendix c-3, document 1; C. for bc tel works not located on a crown road right of way area, the Nisg̱a'a nation will give the grants to bc tel as set out in appendix C-1, part 2, substantially in the form set out in appendix c-3, document 2; and D. to provide access across nisg̱a'a lands to hydro rights of way areas And works, the nisg̱a'a nation will grant to hydro rights of way as set Out in appendix c-1, part 3, substantially in the form contained in Appendix c-4, document 3.
Public utilities on crown roads 69.
Subject to this chapter, public utilities may, with the prior written Approval of british columbia, locate utility transmission and Distribution works on crown roads rights of way areas.
Public utilities on nisg̱a'a lands 70.
Subject to this chapter, hydro and bc tel may, with the prior written Approval of the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, locate distribution Works on nisg̱a'a lands to meet demands for service.
71.
Hydro or bc tel may, with the prior written approval of the nisg̱a'a Nation or a nisg̱a'a village, install new works on nisg̱a'a lands and Provide new service connections after the effective date on terms Substantially as set out in:
A. appendix c-3, document 1 for hydro; and B. appendix c-3, document 2 for bc tel So that hydro and bc tel have the opportunity to extend their Distribution systems according to their policies in other comparable Communities in british columbia.
72.
The nisg̱a'a nation and each nisg̱a'a village will not unreasonably Withhold approval for hydro or bc tel works referred to in paragraph 71.
73.
Nothing in paragraph 71 or 72 requires hydro or bc tel to obtain Approval from the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village for usual service Extensions or connections to works on a crown road right of way area or A public utility right of way area.
Alterations to hydro rights of way areas 74.
If under the terms of a grant of a hydro right of way the nisg̱a'a nation Or a nisg̱a'a village requires hydro to:
A. relocate a portion of the hydro right of way area for hydro Transmission or distribution works existing on the effective date; or B. include within a hydro right of way area hydro transmission or Distribution works that:
I. are located on nisg̱a'a lands outside of a crown road right of way Area or hydro right of way area; and Ii. exist on the effective date The relocation or inclusion will not have any impact on the calculation Of the total rights of way area of british columbia rights of way.
Schedule a — nisg̱a'a highway corridor Section a — Kincolith to that part of the southerly boundary of former Lachkaltsap indian reserve no. 9, shown as being the southerly Boundary of block a of district lot 7051, cassiar district, on Plan 12431, excluding the portion within district lot 2 and District lot 3965, being red bluff indian reserve no. 88, both in Range 5 coast district Maps 103i.091, 103i.092, 103p.001, 103p.002, and 103p.003 Section b — From the southerly boundary of former lachkaltsap indian reserve No. 9 shown as being block a of district lot 7051, cassiar District, on plan 12431, to the southerly boundary of former Zaulzap indian reserve no. 29, being the southerly boundary of Anhluut'uksim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park) Maps 103p.003, 103p.004, and 103p.014 Section c — Anlaw road (gitwinksihlkw access road) between the easterly Boundary of former gitwinksihlkw indian reserve no. 7 and the left Natural boundary of nass river, which is also a portion of the Boundary of Anhluut'uksim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl Nisg̱a'a (a.k.a nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park) as shown on Land act Survey plan 11 tube 1711 Map 103p.014 Section d — Section running between the right natural boundary of tseax river And the northerly boundary of the bc hydro right of way lying Within district lot 1726, as shown on plan 7237 on deposit in the Land title office in prince george Maps 103p.025 and 103p.026 Section e — Aiyansh road no. 180 between the nisg̱a'a highway running through The southeast 1/4 of district lot 4011, cassiar district, and the Northerly boundary of the northeast 1/4 of district lot 4012, Being part of the boundary of former new aiyansh indian reserve No. 1 as shown on rs5608 (52-09-14) Map 103p.025 Section f — Nass forest service road (fsr 7876.01 – section 01) running from Junction of nisg̱a'a highway with road no. 325 northeasterly to its Intersection with the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district Lot 1751, cassiar district Maps 103p.026 and 103p.036 Schedule b — gravel materials pits on nisg̱a'a lands Aiyansh pit (sandhill) Pit no. 5221 103p.025 Anudol pit Pit no. 5223 103p.003 Ansedagan pit Pit no. 5233 103p.014 Ginlulak quarry Pit no. 5224a 103p.003 Ksedin pit Pit no. 5222 103p.004 Kwinhak pit Pit no. 5256 103p.003 Zaulzap quarry Pit no. 5206 103p.014 Chapter 8
Fisheries
General
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements 1.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest fish and aquatic plants in Accordance with this agreement, subject to:
A. measures that are necessary for conservation; and B. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public Safety.
2.
Notwithstanding that nisg̱a'a fish entitlements are treaty rights, a Nisg̱a'a fish allocation that is set out as a percentage of the total Allowable catch has the same priority in fisheries management decisions As the remainder of the total allowable catch of that species harvested In recreational and commercial fisheries.
3.
This agreement is not intended to alter federal and provincial laws of General application in respect of property in fish or aquatic plants.
4.
Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements are held by the nisg̱a'a nation.
5.
The nisg̱a'a nation may not dispose of nisg̱a'a fish entitlements.
6.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may authorize persons other than nisg̱a'a Citizens to harvest fish or aquatic plants in nisg̱a'a fisheries, in Accordance with this agreement, the harvest agreement and nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plans. this authority is not intended to alter the application Of federal and provincial laws of general application in respect of Foreign fishing vessels in canadian waters.
Licences, fees, charges, and royalties 7.
Canada and british columbia will not require the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a Villages, nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, nisg̱a'a citizens, Or other persons authorized by nisg̱a'a lisims government to harvest fish Or aquatic plants under this agreement:
A. to have federal or provincial licences; or B. to pay fees, charges, or royalties In respect of the harvest for domestic purposes of fish or aquatic Plants under this agreement. this paragraph does not restrict canada's Ability to require licences for the use and possession of firearms under Federal laws on the same basis as applies to other aboriginal people of Canada.
8.
Persons who sell fish harvested under this agreement are subject to fees And charges applied to commercial harvesters in respect of the sale of Fish or aquatic plants except to the extent that nisg̱a'a lisims Government, a nisg̱a'a institution, or a nisg̱a'a corporation funds or Performs the activities for which those fees and charges are levied.
Trade and barter 9.
Subject to nisg̱a'a laws, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or Barter among themselves or with other aboriginal people any fish and Aquatic plants harvested in nisg̱a'a fisheries.
Harvesting under other laws and agreements 10.
This agreement does not preclude nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a Corporations, or nisg̱a'a citizens from harvesting fish and aquatic Plants throughout canada in accordance with:
A. federal and provincial laws; B. any agreements that are in accordance with laws of general Application between the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Institution, or a nisg̱a'a corporation, on the one hand, and other Aboriginal people on the other; or C. any arrangements between other aboriginal people and canada or British columbia.
Salmon
Nisg̱a'a salmon allocations 11.
In every year in which it is necessary for conservation, the minister Will determine a minimum escapement level for one or more species of Nass salmon.
12.
The minister will not permit any directed harvests of a species of nass Salmon in any year if:
A. there is a minimum escapement level for that species of nass salmon; And
B. the number of that species of nass salmon returning to canadian Waters, less incidental harvests, is less than or equal to the minimum Escapement level for that species.
13.
In any year:
A. if the minister has not determined a minimum escapement level for a Species of nass salmon; or B. if the number of a species of nass salmon returning to canadian Waters, less incidental harvests, is greater than the minimum escapement Level determined by the minister for that species The amount of that species that the nisg̱a'a nation is entitled to Harvest will be determined in accordance with schedule a and paragraph 16.
14.
The amount of each species of nass salmon in the nisg̱a'a fish Allocations set out in schedule a varies with the size of the total run Of that species returning to canadian waters in each year, as set out in Schedule a.
Overages and underages 15.
Following the fishing season in each year, the minister and nisg̱a'a Lisims government will conduct an accounting of that year's harvest of Nass salmon, in accordance with schedule b.
16.
If there is an overage or underage of a species of nass salmon in any Year, the amount of that species of nass salmon to be harvested in Nisg̱a'a fisheries will be adjusted in subsequent years, in accordance With schedule b.
17.
In every year the minister will manage all canadian fisheries that Harvest nass salmon in order to minimize overharvests of each species of Nass salmon.
18.
The minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government will endeavour to minimize Any overages or underages in each year and to minimize the accumulation Of overages and underages in successive years.
Adjustment of species composition 19.
In any year the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government may agree to Adjust the species composition of the nisg̱a'a harvest for that year in Accordance with the system of equivalencies set out in schedule c.
20.
If a proposed nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan includes an adjustment under Paragraph 19 that will affect a species or fishery under the management Authority of the other party, the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government Will consult with the other party's representatives on the joint Fisheries management committee, and will notify those representatives of Any in-season adjustments.
Harvest agreement 21.
On the effective date, the parties will enter into a harvest agreement Pursuant to paragraph 22. the harvest agreement does not form part of This agreement.
22.
The harvest agreement will:
A. include nisg̱a'a fish allocations equivalent to:
I. 13% of each year's adjusted total allowable catch for nass sockeye Salmon, and Ii. 15% of each year's adjusted total allowable catch for nass pink Salmon;
B. be for a term of 25 years and be replaceable at the discretion of the Nisg̱a'a nation every 15 years for a further 25 years; C. include provisions for the harvest and disposition of fish, Determination of overages and underages, harvest monitoring, and Fisheries management that are consistent with the similar provisions set Out in this agreement; and D. include a dispute resolution process and a requirement for fair Compensation if the harvest agreement is breached by terminating or Reducing the nisg̱a'a fish allocations pursuant to subparagraph (a).
23.
The harvest agreement will be established under federal and provincial Settlement legislation.
24.
The harvest agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land claims Agreement, and it is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or Treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
25.
The minister will implement the harvest agreement by:
A. issuing licences to nisg̱a'a lisims government; or B. other means under federal or provincial laws.
26.
Fisheries under the harvest agreement have the same priority as Commercial and recreational fisheries in fisheries management decisions Made by the minister.
27.
Fish harvested under the harvest agreement may be sold in accordance With the harvest agreement.
Harvest of surplus nass salmon 28.
In any year, the minister may determine whether there is a surplus of a Species of nass salmon, and the size of that surplus.
29.
The joint fisheries management committee may:
A. recommend to the minister procedures for the identification of a Surplus and terms and conditions for the harvest of the surplus; and B. provide advice to the minister in respect of the size of the surplus.
30.
The minister may permit nisg̱a'a lisims government to harvest some or all Of the surplus nass salmon on reaching agreement with nisg̱a'a lisims Government in respect of:
A. the terms and conditions of the harvest; and B. whether all or part of the harvest will be included in the Determination of overages and underages.
Disposition of salmon harvests 31.
Subject to paragraph 33, the nisg̱a'a nation, and its agents, Contractors, and licensees authorized by nisg̱a'a lisims government, have The right to sell nass salmon harvested under this agreement.
32.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 13 of the general Provisions chapter, federal and provincial laws of general application Pertaining to the sale of fish, in respect of commercial transactions, Health and safety, transport, inspection, processing, packaging, Storage, export, quality control, and labelling of fish, apply to the Sale of all nass salmon harvested in nisg̱a'a fisheries.
33.
If, in any year, there are no directed harvests in canadian commercial Or recreational fisheries of a species of nass salmon, sale of that Species of nass salmon harvested in directed harvests of that species in That year's nisg̱a'a fisheries will not be permitted.
Enhancement
34.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may conduct enhancement initiatives for nass Salmon or nass steelhead only with the approval of the minister. this Approval will include provisions in respect of the determination of Surpluses resulting from an approved enhancement initiative. the joint Fisheries management committee may make recommendations in respect of Those initiatives and provisions.
35.
In any year, the portion of the return to canadian waters of chinook, Coho, or chum salmon that can be identified as resulting from approved Nisg̱a'a enhancement initiatives in the nass area will be excluded from The determination of the nisg̱a'a fish allocations under paragraph 13 for That year. the nisg̱a'a fish allocations of these fish are 21% of the Chinook, 8% of the coho and 8% of the chum salmon, subject to measures That are necessary for conservation for non-enhanced nass salmon and Non-enhanced nass steelhead stocks.
36.
The nisg̱a'a nation has the right to harvest surplus nass salmon that Result from an approved nisg̱a'a enhancement initiative, in the same Proportion as the nisg̱a'a contribution to the total cost of the Initiative. these harvests are not subject to paragraph 16 and are in Addition to the nisg̱a'a fish allocations under paragraph 13 and 35 and The harvest agreement.
37.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 13, 16, 35, and 36, the minister and nisg̱a'a Lisims government may negotiate agreements in respect of the nisg̱a'a Harvests of nass salmon or nass steelhead that result from nisg̱a'a Enhancement initiatives.
Steelhead
General
38.
Subject to paragraph 43, nisg̱a'a fish entitlements of nass steelhead are For domestic purposes.
39.
The parties, or any of them, may conduct studies to determine the Status, conservation requirements, and canadian total allowable catch of Nass steelhead stocks. the studies may include the determination of:
A. reliable estimates of sustainable harvest, including the Determination of escapement requirements and total allowable catch; B. the productive capacity of fish habitat in the nass area; and C. measures to improve nass steelhead stocks and plans to implement Those measures.
40.
The joint fisheries management committee will formulate plans for any Studies to be conducted under paragraph 39 and will provide Recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government on the Conduct of those studies.
41.
If a study conducted under paragraph 39 identifies a conservation Concern for a nass steelhead stock, the joint fisheries management Committee will provide recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a Lisims government on appropriate measures to address the concern.
42.
After considering studies conducted under paragraphs 44 or 51, if it is Necessary for conservation, the minister will establish an annual Escapement goal for summer-run or winter-run nass steelhead stocks Returning to canadian waters below which no directed harvests for that Stock will be permitted.
Disposition of steelhead harvests 43.
Any sale of nass steelhead harvested under this agreement will be in Accordance with federal and provincial laws of general application, and Any nisg̱a'a law in respect of sale of fish.
Summer-run steelhead 44.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreement about studies required to determine an annual escapement Goal for summer-run nass steelhead. the minister will not permit any Directed harvest of summer-run nass steelhead during those studies.
45.
If no annual escapement goal for summer-run nass steelhead is Established under paragraph 42, subject to paragraph 43, nisg̱a'a Citizens have the right to harvest summer-run nass steelhead for Domestic purposes.
46.
If an annual escapement goal for summer-run nass steelhead is Established under paragraph 42, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to Harvest summer-run nass steelhead under the nisg̱a'a fish allocation set Out in schedule d.
47.
Subject to the nisg̱a'a fish allocation of summer-run nass steelhead set Out in subparagraph 2 (a) of schedule d, if the number of summer-run Nass steelhead returning to the nass watershed is less than the annual Escapement goal, the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia will take Measures to limit summer-run nass steelhead mortalities.
Winter-run steelhead 48.
Before a nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run nass steelhead is Established under paragraph 49, subject to paragraph 43, nisg̱a'a Citizens have the right to harvest winter-run nass steelhead for Domestic purposes.
49.
If an annual escapement goal for winter-run nass steelhead is Established under paragraph 42, british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation May negotiate a nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run nass steelhead.
Any nisg̱a'a fish allocation established under this paragraph will be Added to schedule d.
50.
If a nisg̱a'a fish allocation of winter-run nass steelhead is established Under paragraph 49, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest Winter-run nass steelhead under that nisg̱a'a fish allocation.
51.
If the minister determines that it is necessary to suspend directed Harvesting of winter-run nass steelhead because of a conservation Concern about winter-run nass steelhead, studies under paragraph 39 will Be conducted. the minister will not permit any directed harvest of Winter-run nass steelhead during those studies.
Non-salmon species and aquatic plants Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements of non-salmon species and aquatic plants 52.
Subject to paragraph 67, nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species And aquatic plants are for domestic purposes.
53.
Before a nisg̱a'a fish allocation of a non-salmon species or an aquatic Plant is established under this agreement, nisg̱a'a citizens have the Right to harvest non-salmon species and aquatic plants within the nass Area for domestic purposes.
54.
Canada or british columbia, in respect of any non-salmon species or Aquatic plant within their respective management authority, or the Nisg̱a'a nation may propose the establishment of a nisg̱a'a fish Allocation that will be the nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon Species or aquatic plant.
55.
Unless otherwise agreed by the nisg̱a'a nation and canada or british Columbia for non-salmon species or aquatic plants, within their Respective management authority, the nisg̱a'a fish allocation of each Non-salmon species or aquatic plant will be 125% of the basic nisg̱a'a Fish entitlement to that species.
56.
The basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species and aquatic Plants will be determined by taking into account:
A. current and past nisg̱a'a use for domestic purposes; B. the impact of conservation requirements and harvesting by others on Nisg̱a'a use for domestic purposes; C. the biological status of the species; D. changes in nisg̱a'a fishing effort; and E. other factors that the nisg̱a'a nation and canada or british columbia, As the case may be, agree are relevant.
57.
Before a nisg̱a'a fish allocation of a non-salmon species or aquatic Plant is established, the nisg̱a'a nation and canada or british columbia, For non-salmon species and aquatic plants within their respective Management authority, will:
A. seek the advice of the joint fisheries management committee on the Determination of the basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon Species or aquatic plant; and B. conduct any studies they consider necessary to determine the basic Nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to that non-salmon species or aquatic plant.
58.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation and Canada or british columbia, for non-salmon species and aquatic plants Within their respective management authority, will negotiate and attempt To reach agreement on basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to:
A. dungeness, tanner, and king crab; B. halibut; C. prawns and shrimp; D. herring; and E. aquatic plants used in the herring roe-on-kelp fishery.
59.
If the nisg̱a'a nation and canada or british columbia, for non-salmon Species and aquatic plants within their respective management authority, Do not agree on the basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlement to a non-salmon Species or aquatic plant, that basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlement will be Finally determined by arbitration under the dispute resolution chapter.
60.
Any nisg̱a'a fish allocation of non-salmon species or aquatic plants Established under this chapter will be set out in schedule e.
61.
If a nisg̱a'a fish allocation is established for a non-salmon species or Aquatic plant, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that Non-salmon species or aquatic plant under that nisg̱a'a fish allocation.
Oolichan
62.
The nisg̱a'a nation, together with any other persons who have aboriginal Rights to harvest oolichan in the nass area, has the right to harvest The total harvest of oolichan in the nass area.
63.
If there are any agreements between the nisg̱a'a nation and other Aboriginal people in respect of the harvesting of oolichan in the nass Area, nisg̱a'a harvests of those oolichan will be in accordance with Those agreements.
Intertidal bivalves 64.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest, for domestic purposes, Intertidal bivalves within those portions of the nass area set out in Appendix i.
65.
The right to harvest intertidal bivalves set out in paragraph 64 is the Nisg̱a'a fish allocation of intertidal bivalves.
66.
The minister will not permit commercial harvesting of intertidal Bivalves within those portions of the nass area set out in appendix i.
Disposition of non-salmon species and aquatic plants 67.
Any sale of non-salmon species and aquatic plants harvested under Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements will be in accordance with federal and Provincial laws of general application and any nisg̱a'a law in respect of Sale of fish or aquatic plants.
Fisheries management Responsibilities of the parties 68.
Subject to this agreement, the minister is responsible for the Management of fisheries and fish habitat.
69.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws that are in respect of the Nisg̱a'a nation's rights and obligations in respect of fish and aquatic Plants under, and that are consistent with, this agreement and the Harvest agreement and that are not inconsistent with nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plans including matters such as:
A. distribution of the nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this agreement And nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the harvest agreement; B. authorization of persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens to harvest fish Or aquatic plants from the nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this Agreement and nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the harvest agreement; C. the trade or barter of fish or aquatic plants harvested under the Nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this agreement or the nisg̱a'a fish Allocations under the harvest agreement; D. designation and documentation of fishing vessels; E. identification, in a manner compatible with that required under Federal and provincial laws of general application, of fishing vessels And gear; and F. other matters agreed to by the parties.
70.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws that are consistent with this Agreement and the harvest agreement and that are not inconsistent with Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans:
A. to establish and administer licensing requirements, for the harvest Of fish or aquatic plants under this agreement and the harvest Agreement; and B. to require the designation and documentation of persons who harvest Fish or aquatic plants under this agreement or the harvest agreement.
71.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law made Under paragraphs 69 or 70 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a Law will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
72.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of sale, in Accordance with this agreement, of fish or aquatic plants that are Harvested under this agreement or the harvest agreement.
73.
In the event of a conflict between a law made under paragraph 72 and a Federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law will prevail to the extent of the conflict.
74.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws to require:
A. that any fish harvested under this agreement or the harvest agreement That are transported outside nisg̱a'a lands for the purpose of trade or Barter be identified as fish for trade or barter; and B. nisg̱a'a citizens and the authorized agents, contractors, and Licensees of nisg̱a'a lisims government to comply with nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plans.
Nisg̱a'a fisheries operational guidelines 75.
The parties will prepare and maintain a document to be known as the "nisg̱a'a fisheries operational guidelines" that will set out the Operational principles, procedures, and guidelines to assist each of Them, and the joint fisheries management committee, in carrying out the Provisions of this chapter and the harvest agreement, including the Preparation and recommendation of nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans. the Parties will amend the document as required as improved fisheries Management and stock assessment procedures are developed.
76.
The nisg̱a'a fisheries operational guidelines:
A. is not a part of this agreement; B. is not intended to be a treaty or land claims agreement, and it is Not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or treaty rights, within The meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 ; and C. does not create legal obligations.
Management structure 77.
On the effective date, the parties will establish the joint fisheries Management committee to facilitate cooperative planning and conduct of Nisg̱a'a fisheries and enhancement initiatives in the nass area. for this Purpose, the joint fisheries management committee will carry out the Responsibilities assigned to it under this agreement, including:
A. sharing information and plans for existing and proposed fisheries That could affect or be affected by nisg̱a'a fisheries; B. arranging for collection and exchange of data required to carry out The provisions of this chapter; C. providing advice concerning escapement goals; D. making recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government In respect of other conservation requirements and the management of fish And aquatic plants; E. providing advice to the parties in respect of the determination of The basic nisg̱a'a fish entitlements to non-salmon species and aquatic Plants;
F. making recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government In respect of nisg̱a'a overages and underages, in accordance with Schedule b; G. making recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government In respect of nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans; H. making recommendations to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government In respect of studies for enhancement and enhancement initiatives; I. making recommendations and providing advice to the minister in Respect of surpluses; J. making recommendations to the trustees of the lisims fisheries Conservation trust in respect of projects, programs, and activities to Be funded with expenditures from that trust; K. communicating with other management or advisory bodies in respect of Matters of mutual interest; L. providing advice on the coordination of the nisg̱a'a annual fishing Plans and proposed decisions of nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect of Methods, timing, and locations of harvests; M. providing advice in respect of any proposed in-season adjustments to The nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans; and N. carrying out other responsibilities agreed to by the parties.
78.
The minister will, as far in advance as practicable, give notice to the Joint fisheries management committee of any proposed in-season Adjustments to the nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan, and nisg̱a'a lisims Government will, as far in advance as practicable, give notice to the Joint fisheries management committee of any proposed decisions of Nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect of methods, timing, and locations Of nisg̱a'a harvests.
79.
The joint fisheries management committee will have six members. the Nisg̱a'a nation, canada, and british columbia will each appoint two Members to represent them on the joint fisheries management committee.
The members of the joint fisheries management committee representing the Nisg̱a'a nation and canada are responsible for functions in respect of Fisheries managed by canada. the members of the joint fisheries Management committee representing the nisg̱a'a nation and british Columbia are responsible for functions in respect of fisheries managed By british columbia.
80.
The joint fisheries management committee will meet as often as necessary To carry out its responsibilities and will establish its procedures, Including procedures to carry out its responsibilities relating to In-season fisheries management.
81.
Whenever possible, the joint fisheries management committee will carry Out its responsibilities by consensus of the members responsible for Each function. if there is no consensus, the joint fisheries management Committee will submit the recommendations or advice of each party's Representatives.
82.
If it is impracticable for the joint fisheries management committee to Address an issue, each party's representatives may submit their Recommendations or advice.
Other fisheries management bodies 83.
The parties acknowledge that fisheries management may involve the Consideration of issues on a regional or watershed basis. if canada or British columbia proposes to establish fisheries management advisory Bodies for areas that include any part of the nass area, canada or British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation in developing Those bodies and, if appropriate, will provide for the participation of The nisg̱a'a nation in those bodies.
Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans 84.
Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans are plans for the harvest, and if Applicable the sale, of fish and aquatic plants under this agreement and The harvest agreement. the plans will include, as appropriate, Provisions in respect of:
A. the methods, timing, and locations of harvest; B. monitoring of harvest; C. enforcement; D. stock assessment and enhancement; E. the terms and conditions for the sale of fish or aquatic plants; F. authorized harvest by persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens or nisg̱a'a Lisims government; G. in-season adjustments to any of the matters referred to in this Paragraph; and H. other matters that the parties agree to include in the nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plans.
85.
The monitoring provisions referred to in subparagraph 84 (b) may Include:
A. requirements for identification of persons authorized to harvest; B. processes for catch monitoring that may include the establishment of Designated landing sites and procedures for the transportation of fish; C. processes for reporting and accounting of harvest and sale; D. requirements for compiling and reporting data to the minister; and E. processes for verification by the minister of the monitoring Processes.
86.
Each year nisg̱a'a lisims government will propose nisg̱a'a annual fishing Plans that:
A. are consistent with nisg̱a'a fish entitlements under this agreement And nisg̱a'a fish allocations under the harvest agreement; B. set out any nisg̱a'a preferences for methods, timing, and locations of Harvest; and C. take into account any management concerns identified by the minister Or nisg̱a'a lisims government.
87.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will forward the proposed nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plans to the joint fisheries management committee on a timely Basis.
88.
The joint fisheries management committee, on a timely basis, will:
A. consider the proposed nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans; B. make any appropriate adjustments that are necessary to integrate the Nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans with other fisheries conservation and Harvesting plans, while giving effect to the nisg̱a'a preferences in Respect of methods, timing, and locations of harvest, to the extent Possible; and C. make recommendations regarding the proposed nisg̱a'a annual fishing Plans to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government.
Review of recommendations 89.
In considering recommendations of the joint fisheries management Committee, the minister will take into account:
A. conservation requirements and availability of fisheries resources; B. any nisg̱a'a preferences in respect of methods, timing, and locations Of harvests throughout the nass area, set out in the recommendations; C. utilization of the fisheries resources for the benefit of all Canadians;
D. efficient and effective harvesting of fisheries resources; E. requirements for integration and efficient management of all Fisheries;
F. accepted scientific procedures for management of fisheries resources; And
G. any other matters the minister considers appropriate.
90.
After considering the recommendations of the joint fisheries management Committee under paragraph 89, the minister, on a timely basis, will:
A. approve, or vary and approve, the nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans Recommended by the joint fisheries management committee, or its members, And provide written reasons for varying nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans; And
B. approve or reject, in whole or in part, all other recommendations Made by the joint fisheries management committee, or its members, and Provide written reasons for rejecting, in whole or in part, any of those Other recommendations But approved nisg̱a'a annual fishing plans, and approvals and rejections Of other recommendations, must be consistent with this agreement and the Harvest agreement.
91.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive advice from The joint fisheries management committee, the minister:
A. may make the decision or take the action that the minister considers Necessary, without receiving advice from the joint fisheries management Committee; and B. will advise the joint fisheries management committee as soon as Practicable of the special circumstances and the decision made or action Taken.
Federal and provincial laws of general application 92.
In order to:
A. avoid duplication of requirements between a nisg̱a'a annual fishing Plan and federal and provincial laws of general application; and B. otherwise facilitate the management of nisg̱a'a fisheries If there is an inconsistency between a nisg̱a'a annual fishing plan and a Federal or provincial law of general application, the nisg̱a'a annual Fishing plan prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.
Enforcement
93.
The nisg̱a'a nation may negotiate agreements with canada or british Columbia concerning enforcement of federal, provincial or nisg̱a'a laws In respect of fisheries.
94.
Persons who harvest or sell fish or aquatic plants under this agreement May be required to show proof of their authority to do so.
95.
Nisg̱a'a laws made in accordance with this chapter may be enforced by Persons authorized to enforce federal, provincial, or nisg̱a'a laws in Respect of fish and aquatic plants in british columbia.
Lisims fisheries conservation trust Establishment
96.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, canada and the nisg̱a'a Nation will establish a trust to be known as the lisims fisheries Conservation trust, and will undertake all actions required to register The trust as a charity for the purposes of the Income tax act .
Appointment of trustees 97.
Canada and the nisg̱a'a nation will each appoint an equal number of Trustees of the lisims fisheries conservation trust, and canada and the Nisg̱a'a nation will appoint one additional trustee jointly.
Other charities 98.
In order to realize most effectively the objects of the lisims fisheries Conservation trust, canada and the nisg̱a'a nation may establish other Charities having substantially the same objects as the lisims fisheries Conservation trust, but they will have no obligation to do so or to Contribute any amount to any other charity.
Objects of trust 99.
The objects of the lisims fisheries conservation trust will be to:
A. promote conservation and protection of nass area fish species; B. facilitate sustainable management of fisheries for nass area species And stocks; and C. promote and support nisg̱a'a participation in the stewardship of nass Area fisheries For the benefit of all canadians.
Trustees' responsibilities 100.
The trustees will hold the lisims fisheries conservation trust property In trust exclusively for the objects of the lisims fisheries Conservation trust and will administer the property in accordance with The trust agreement establishing the trust.
101.
In pursuance of the objects of the lisims fisheries conservation trust, The trustees will review, sponsor, and fund, projects, programs, and Activities that the trustees in their discretion determine serve some or All of the following objectives:
A. to evaluate specific and integrated conservation needs and habitat Requirements for all species of nass area fish; B. to assess the status of nass salmon and non-salmon species; C. to provide for appropriate salmon escapement monitoring processes; D. to facilitate the seasonal estimation of nass salmon and non-salmon Species production including providing procedures required to give Effect to the nisg̱a'a fisheries; E. to facilitate the discrimination of nass salmon stocks and to Evaluate factors limiting the production of nass salmon and non-salmon Species; and F. to obtain gifts, donations, grants, and other contributions to the Lisims fisheries conservation trust.
102.
In pursuance of the objects of the lisims fisheries conservation trust, The trustees may, in their discretion, initiate and direct projects, Programs, and activities that the trustees, in their discretion, Determine serve some or all of the objectives set out in paragraph 101.
103.
In reviewing, sponsoring, funding, initiating, and directing, projects, Programs, and activities under paragraphs 101 and 102, the trustees will Give priority to the monitoring of nass salmon escapement, the Monitoring of harvests in the nisg̱a'a fisheries and the determination of Factors limiting the production of nass salmon and non-salmon species.
104.
In addition to any projects, programs, and activities undertaken under Paragraphs 101 and 102, the trustees may review, sponsor, fund, Initiate, or direct any other projects, programs, or activities that the Trustees, in their discretion, determine appropriate in pursuance of the Objects of the lisims fisheries conservation trust.
105.
The trustees will not use the lisims fisheries conservation trust Property to support:
A. projects, programs, or activities that:
I. monitor fisheries, other than nisg̱a'a fisheries, outside the nass Area, or Ii. collect stock assessment data for salmon stocks originating from Streams outside of the nass area, except as required to assess nass Salmon stocks; B. the establishment or operation of, or representation on, the joint Fisheries management committee; C. salaries of full time employees of the department of fisheries and Oceans; or D. the purchase of equipment for the department of fisheries and oceans.
106.
In pursuance of the objects of the lisims fisheries conservation trust, The trustees will seek and consider recommendations from the joint Fisheries management committee regarding projects, programs, and Activities to be funded by the lisims fisheries conservation trust.
Settlement
107.
Within 60 days of the effective date, or later if canada and the nisg̱a'a Nation agree, canada and the nisg̱a'a nation will each settle on the Trustees the respective amounts described in schedule f.
108.
The lisims fisheries conservation trust property may be increased by Gifts, donations, grants, and other contributions.
109.
When canada has contributed the full amount referred to in subparagraph 1 (a) of schedule f, canada will have discharged its obligations under This agreement to fund projects, programs, and activities that are Funded by the lisims fisheries conservation trust.
Other responsibilities 110.
The operation of the lisims fisheries conservation trust will not affect The responsibilities of canada under federal legislation, or the Obligations of canada or the nisg̱a'a nation under this agreement.
Participation in the general commercial fishery 111.
On the effective date, canada and british columbia will each provide Funding in the respective amounts described in schedule g to the nisg̱a'a Nation to enable it to increase its capacity, in the form of commercial Licences, or vessels and commercial licences, to participate in the General commercial fishery in british columbia. these commercial Licenses and vessels will be subject to federal and provincial laws of General application in respect of commercial fisheries in british Columbia.
112.
At the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, canada, and british columbia will Provide the nisg̱a'a nation with support for the acquisition of the Commercial licences, or vessels and commercial licences, referred to in Paragraph 111, including:
A. general fishing industry information; B. available information concerning the fleet composition and number of Commercial vessels; C. available commercial fishing industry cost and earnings information; D. estimated commercial vessel and commercial licence costs; and E. recent estimates of commercial harvests and landed values.
113.
Notwithstanding paragraph 111, the nisg̱a'a nation may spend up to $3 Million, as adjusted under schedule g, of the amounts referred to in Paragraph 1 of schedule g for other fisheries related activities.
Herring roe-on-kelp study 114.
As soon as practicable after the effective date, the parties will Conduct a study to assess the availability of herring and kelp within The nass area to determine the feasibility of a nisg̱a'a herring Roe-on-kelp impoundment.
International arrangements 115.
Canada will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation with respect to the Formulation of canada's positions in relation to international Discussions or negotiations that may significantly affect fisheries Resources referred to in this agreement.
116.
This agreement will not affect or preclude participation of the nisg̱a'a Nation, nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a institutions, nisg̱a'a corporations, or Nisg̱a'a citizens in commissions or fisheries management advisory bodies.
Processing facilities 117.
The nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a institutions, or nisg̱a'a Corporations will not establish a new fish processing facility capable Of processing more than 2,000 metric tons of round weight of fish per Year, within eight years of the effective date, except as agreed to by The parties.
Schedule a — nisg̱a'a fish allocations for salmon 1.
Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this schedule, in each year the nisg̱a'a Fish allocation of each species of nass salmon is:
A. the percentage for that species set out in table 1, row 1, multiplied By
B. the estimated number of that species returning to canada in that Year, and C. if a portion of the return to canadian waters of chinook, coho, or Chum salmon can be identified as resulting from nisg̱a'a enhancement Initiatives in the nass area approved under paragraph 34 of the Fisheries chapter, that portion will be subtracted from the estimated Number of nass salmon of that species returning to canadian waters in That year.
2.
If the minister has established a minimum escapement level for a species Under paragraph 11 of the fisheries chapter, and the number of nass Salmon of that species returning to canada exceeds the minimum Escapement level but does not exceed the small return to canada for that Species set out in table 1, row 2, the nisg̱a'a fish allocation will Increase in a linear manner, from zero at the minimum escapement level To the threshold for that species set out in table 1, row 3, except that The nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed the return to canada minus The minimum escapement level.
3.
If the number of nass salmon of a species returning to canada exceeds The large return to canada for that species set out in table 1, row 2, The nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed the maximum for that species Set out in table 1, row 3.
4.
If, in any year, a portion of the return of chinook, coho, or chum Salmon is identified as resulting from nisg̱a'a enhancement initiatives In the nass area, as described in subparagraph 1 (c) of this schedule, The nisg̱a'a fish allocations of these fish are as set out in paragraph 35 of the fisheries chapter.
Species
Sockeye
Pink
Chinook
Coho
Chum
1.
Nisg̱a'a share (%) of return to canada 10.5% 0.6% 21.0% 8.0% 8.0% 2.
Return to canada Small
Large
160,000 600,000 300,000 1,100,000 13, 000 60,000 40,000 240,000 30,000 150,000 3.
Nisg̱a'a fish allocations at small and large returns to canada Threshold (at small return to canada) Maximum (at large return to canada) 16,800 63,000 1,800 6,600 2,730 12,600 3,200 19,200 2,400 12,000 Schedule b — overages and underages Determination of overages and underages 1.
For the purpose of catch accounting, harvests for each salmon species Are classified into two groups of fisheries:
A. nisg̱a'a fisheries; and B. other canadian fisheries harvesting nass salmon.
2.
To determine the overage or underage for a nass salmon species in Nisg̱a'a fisheries, the following post-season estimates are required for Each species of salmon:
A. the total return to canada (the "trtc") for that species of nass Salmon;
B. the total escapement to nass area streams (the "post-season Escapement estimate"); C. the harvest share for nisg̱a'a fisheries (the "nisg̱a'a share") for That year determined in accordance with the nisg̱a'a fish allocations set Out in the fisheries chapter and the harvest agreement using the Post-season estimate of the trtc and the escapement goal for that year, Including any adjustments to the nisg̱a'a share for overages and Underages;
D. the harvest allowed for other canadian fisheries (the "remaining Allowable catch") based on the post-season estimate of trtc, the Escapement goal and the nisg̱a'a share for that year; E. the total number of fish of that species caught in nisg̱a'a fisheries (the "nisg̱a'a catch"); F. the total number of nass salmon of that species caught in other Canadian fisheries (the "other catch"); and G. the total catch for a year (the "total catch") determined by adding The nisg̱a'a catch to the other catch.
3.
In each year, the nisg̱a'a account will be calculated for each species, As set out below, to determine if an overage or underage has occurred For that species. if the nisg̱a'a account is a number greater than zero, Then there is an overage. if the nisg̱a'a account is a number less than Zero, then there is an underage.
4.
The nisg̱a'a account for salmon in each year will be calculated as Follows:
A. if the post-season escapement estimate is greater than or equal to The escapement goal and the minister has provided reasonable Opportunities for the harvest of the nisg̱a'a fish allocations and the Nisg̱a'a catch is less than the nisg̱a'a share, and the other catch is Less than or equal to the remaining allowable catch, the nisg̱a'a account Is zero; B. if the post-season escapement estimate is greater than or equal to The escapement goal and the nisg̱a'a catch is more than the nisg̱a'a Share, the nisg̱a'a account is:
Nisg̱a'a account = nisg̱a'a catch − nisg̱a'a share ; C. if the post-season escapement estimate is greater than or equal to The escapement goal and the other canadian fisheries harvest more than Their share, the nisg̱a'a account is:
Nisg̱a'a account = remaining allowable catch − other catch ; D. if the post-season escapement estimate is less than or equal to the Escapement goal and there is a nisg̱a'a share and there is no remaining Allowable catch, the nisg̱a'a account is:
Nisg̱a'a account = nisg̱a'a catch − nisg̱a'a share − other catch ; E. if the post-season escapement estimate is less than the escapement Goal and there is a nisg̱a'a share and there is a remaining allowable Catch, the nisg̱a'a account for sockeye salmon is:
Nisg̱a'a account = nisg̱a'a catch − nisg̱a'a share − 13% of the Overharvest
; And the nisg̱a'a account for pink salmon is:
Nisg̱a'a account = nisg̱a'a catch − nisg̱a'a share − 15% of the Overharvest
; And the nisg̱a'a account for each of the other salmon species is:
Nisg̱a'a account = nisg̱a'a catch − Nisg̱a'a share • total catch ( Nisg̱a'a share + remaining allowable catch ) 5.
In each year, the "cumulative nisg̱a'a account" for each species will be Calculated by adding that year's nisg̱a'a account for that species, to The previous year's cumulative nisg̱a'a account for that species as Adjusted under paragraph 6 of this schedule or paragraph 30 of the Fisheries chapter.
Adjustment of the nisg̱a'a harvest 6.
The minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government will endeavour to minimize Any overages or underages in each year and to minimize the accumulation Of overages and underages in successive years, but in any year:
A. unless otherwise agreed by the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims Government, any adjustments to the nisg̱a'a harvest in that year for past Overages will not exceed 5% of the total nisg̱a'a fish allocations of That species; B. any adjustments to the nisg̱a'a harvest in that year for past Underages will only be made if those adjustments:
I. are approved by nisg̱a'a lisims government, and Ii. unless otherwise agreed by the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims Government, do not exceed 5% of the pre-season estimate of the remaining Allowable catch for that species; C. the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government may agree to reduce an Overage for one species by an underage for another species, in Accordance with the system of equivalencies set out in schedule c, in Order to reduce the overages and underages in the cumulative nisg̱a'a Account; and D. if an adjustment is made to the nisg̱a'a harvest under subparagraphs (a), (b), or (c) or paragraph 30 of the fisheries chapter, a Corresponding adjustment will be made to the cumulative nisg̱a'a account.
Joint fisheries management committee recommendations 7.
The joint fisheries management committee will recommend to the minister And nisg̱a'a lisims government adjustments to the nisg̱a'a harvest in Nisg̱a'a fisheries for each year to account for cumulative overages and Cumulative underages in accordance with this schedule.
Schedule c — system of salmon equivalencies 1.
Equivalencies for conversions among salmon species will be expressed as Sockeye equivalents, where the value of each species is calculated Relative to the value of sockeye salmon. sockeye equivalents will be Based on average weights and average commercial landed value statistics For salmon in the nass area, unless otherwise agreed by the minister and Nisg̱a'a lisims government.
2.
The sockeye equivalent factor for each salmon species will be calculated As follows:
Se
Chinook
= Chinook average weight • Chinook average price/weight Sockeye average weight Sockeye average price/weight Se
Coho
= Coho average weight • Coho average price/weight Sockeye average weight Sockeye average price/weight Se
Pink
= Pink average weight • Pink average price/weight Sockeye average weight Sockeye average price/weight Se
Chum
= Chum average weight • Chum average price/weight Sockeye average weight Sockeye average price/weight Schedule d — determination of the nisg̱a'a fish allocation of steelhead 1.
In this schedule, the adjusted total allowable catch of summer-run nass Steelhead is equal to 95% of the total number of the summer-run nass Steelhead returning to the nass area less the annual escapement goal.
2.
The nisg̱a'a fish allocation of summer-run nass steelhead under paragraph 46 of the fisheries chapter will be equal to:
A. 5% of the total number of summer-run nass steelhead returning to the Nass area; plus B. 25% of the adjusted total allowable catch But, in any event, the nisg̱a'a fish allocation will not exceed 1000 Summer-run nass steelhead.
Schedule e — nisg̱a'a  fish allocations of non-salmon species or Aquatic plants This schedule will set out nisg̱a'a fish allocations of non-salmon Species or aquatic plants established under this chapter after the Effective date.
Schedule f — provisional schedule of lisims fisheries conservation Trust settlement amounts 1.
The amounts to be settled on the trustees of the lisims fisheries Conservation trust are:
A. $10 million by canada; and B. $3 million by the nisg̱a'a nation.
Note 1 to this schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of This agreement, when this schedule is completed in accordance with that Note and the effective date occurs.
Note 1
The amounts stated in (a) and (b) will be adjusted on the revision date By multiplying each amount by n and dividing by o where:
N is the first published value of fddipi for the latest calendar quarter For which statistics canada has published a fddipi before the revision Date;
O is the value of the fddipi for the last quarter in the 1995 calendar Year published by statistics canada at the same time as the value used In n; and Fddipi is the final domestic demand implicit price index for canada, Series d15613, published regularly by statistics canada in matrix 6544:
Implicit price indexes, gross domestic product.
The revision date will be a date 14 days before the effective date, or Such other date as the parties may agree. on the revision date, the Amounts in (a) and (b) will be replaced by amounts adjusted in Accordance with this note, the title of this schedule will be changed to "schedule f - lisims fisheries conservation trust settlement Amounts".
Schedule g — provisional schedule of funding under paragraph 111 of The fisheries chapter 1.
Funding under paragraph 111 of the fisheries chapter will be as follows:
A. $5.75 million will be paid by canada; and B. $5.75 million will be paid by british columbia.
Note 1 to this schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of This agreement, when this schedule is completed in accordance with that Note and the effective date occurs.
Note 1
The amounts stated in (a) and (b) will be adjusted on the revision date By multiplying each amount by n and dividing by o Where:
N is the first published value of fddipi for the latest calendar quarter For which statistics canada has published a fddipi before the revision Date;
O is the value of the fddipi for the last quarter in the 1995 calendar Year published by statistics canada at the same time as the value used In n; and Fddipi is the final domestic demand implicit price index for canada, Series d15613, published regularly by statistics canada in matrix 6544:
Implicit price indexes, gross domestic product.
The revision date will be a date 14 days before the effective date, or Such other date as the parties may agree. on the revision date, the Amounts in (a) and (b) will be replaced by amounts adjusted in Accordance with this note, the title of this schedule will be changed to "schedule g – funding under paragraph 111 of the fisheries Chapter".
Chapter 9
Wildlife and migratory birds General
Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements 1.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest wildlife throughout the nass Wildlife area in accordance with this agreement subject to:
A. measures that are necessary for conservation; and B. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public Safety.
2.
The entitlement set out in paragraph 1 is a right to harvest in a manner That:
A. is consistent with:
I. the communal nature of the nisg̱a'a harvest for domestic purposes, and Ii. the traditional seasons of the nisg̱a'a harvest; and B. does not interfere with other authorized uses of crown land.
3.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, the crown may authorize uses of or Dispose of crown land, and any authorized use or disposition may affect The methods, times, and locations of harvesting wildlife under nisg̱a'a Wildlife entitlements, provided that the crown ensures that those Authorized uses or dispositions do not:
A. deny nisg̱a'a citizens the reasonable opportunity to harvest wildlife Under nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; or B. reduce nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations.
4.
Subject to paragraph 3, nisg̱a'a citizens may harvest wildlife under Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements on lands that are owned in fee simple off Of nisg̱a'a lands, but that harvesting will be in accordance with laws of General application in respect of harvesting wildlife on fee simple Lands.
5.
Subject to paragraphs 70, 92, and 93, nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are For domestic purposes.
6.
Notwithstanding that nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are treaty rights, a Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation that is set out as a percentage of the total Allowable harvest has the same priority as the recreational and Commercial harvest of the total allowable harvest of that species.
7.
This agreement is not intended to alter federal or provincial laws of General application in respect of property in wildlife or migratory Birds.
8.
Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements are held by the nisg̱a'a nation.
9.
The nisg̱a'a nation may not dispose of nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements.
Licences, fees, charges, and royalties 10.
Canada and british columbia will not require nisg̱a'a citizens:
A. to have federal or provincial licences; or B. to pay fees, charges, or royalties In respect of the harvest of wildlife or migratory birds under nisg̱a'a Wildlife entitlements. this paragraph does not restrict canada's ability To require licences for the use and possession of firearms under federal Laws on the same basis as applies to other aboriginal people of canada.
11.
From time to time the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia will negotiate And attempt to reach agreements concerning the nisg̱a'a nation Contributions to any provincial fund dedicated to wildlife conservation And habitat protection, at a level that is commensurate with and takes Into account:
A. the contributions made by licensed hunters throughout british Columbia;
B. the application of the provincial fund to the nass wildlife area; and C. the performance of similar wildlife management activities by nisg̱a'a Lisims government.
Harvesting under other laws and agreements 12.
This agreement does not preclude nisg̱a'a citizens from harvesting Wildlife or migratory birds throughout canada in accordance with:
A. federal and provincial laws; B. any agreements that are in accordance with laws of general Application between the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Corporation on the one hand, and other aboriginal people on the other; Or
C. any arrangements between other aboriginal people and canada or British columbia.
Nass wildlife area 13.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation may agree to alter the Boundaries of the nass wildlife area from time to time.
14.
Provincial laws in respect of the designation of wildlife management Areas and critical wildlife areas do not apply on nisg̱a'a lands.
Designated species Initial designated species 15.
On the effective date, the minister will designate moose, grizzly bear, And mountain goat as the initial designated species.
Designation of wildlife species and determination of total allowable Harvests
16.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government or british columbia may request the wildlife Committee to recommend whether a wildlife species should be, or continue To be, a designated species.
17.
The minister may designate a wildlife species, other than the initial Designated species, only if the minister determines that, in order to Address a significant risk to a wildlife population, there should be a Total allowable harvest of that wildlife species.
18.
The minister may determine that a wildlife species is no longer a Designated species only if the minister determines that the significant Risk to the wildlife population no longer exists.
19.
The minister will request and consider recommendations from the wildlife Committee before determining whether a species will be, or continue to Be, a designated species.
20.
British columbia and nisg̱a'a lisims government will provide the wildlife Committee with the information that is reasonably available and Necessary to enable the wildlife committee to recommend whether a Wildlife species should be, or continue to be, a designated species.
Total allowable harvests 21.
The minister will request and consider recommendations from the wildlife Committee before determining the total allowable harvest for any Designated species.
22.
In determining the total allowable harvest for a designated species, the Minister will, in accordance with proper wildlife management, take into Account:
A. the population of the species within the nass wildlife area; and B. the population of the species within its normal range or area of Movement outside the nass wildlife area.
Entitlements and allocations Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements 23.
Before:
A. a wildlife species is designated in accordance with this agreement; B. a nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that wildlife species is Established; and C. a total allowable harvest of that wildlife species is determined, Subject to paragraph 70, nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that Wildlife species for domestic purposes.
Nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations 24.
If:
A. a wildlife species is designated in accordance with this agreement; B. a nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that wildlife species is Established; and C. a total allowable harvest of that wildlife species is determined Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest that designated species, in Accordance with that nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation.
25.
The nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations of the initial designated species are Set out in schedule a.
26.
A nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation that is determined or varied under this Agreement, and any review provisions agreed to under paragraph 28, will Be added to schedule a.
27.
Unless british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation otherwise agree, or it is Otherwise determined by arbitration under paragraph 33, the nisg̱a'a Wildlife allocation of a species that is designated after the effective Date:
A. will, at or below the estimated harvest level at the time of the Designation of the species, reflect the share of the harvest that was Harvested by the nisg̱a'a nation before the designation; B. will provide for an increasing share of the total allowable harvest By persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens as the total allowable harvest Increases above the level at which the species was designated; and C. may provide for a maximum amount for the nisg̱a'a harvest.
28.
If the minister designates a species after the effective date, british Columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will negotiate and attempt to reach Agreement on a nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of that designated species, And they may also agree to provisions to review that nisg̱a'a wildlife Allocation.
29.
Any determination or variation of a nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation, Including a determination or variation by an arbitrator under paragraph 33, will take into account all relevant information presented by british Columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation and in particular information presented In respect of:
A. the status of the species; B. conservation requirements; C. current and past nisg̱a'a harvest for domestic purposes; D. change in nisg̱a'a harvesting effort; and E. the effect on the species of harvesting by others.
Review of nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations of initial designated species 30.
Within 15 years of the effective date, british columbia and the nisg̱a'a Nation will review the nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of an initial Designated species:
A. once at the request of either british columbia or the nisg̱a'a nation At any time after five years from the effective date; and B. if there has been a review under subparagraph (a):
I. once at the request of british columbia, and Ii. once at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation At any time after five years from the date the review under subparagraph (a) was requested.
31.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation may agree to vary the nisg̱a'a Wildlife allocation of an initial designated species after any review Under paragraph 30.
32.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 30 and 31, british columbia and the nisg̱a'a Nation may agree to review and vary the nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of An initial designated species at any time.
Arbitration
33.
If british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation fail to agree on:
A. the nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of an initial designated species Following a review under paragraph 30; or B. the nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of any other designated species under Paragraphs 27 to 29 The allocation will be finally determined by arbitration under the Dispute resolution chapter.
34.
The party requesting a review of the nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of a Designated species has the onus of establishing that the nisg̱a'a Wildlife allocation should be varied.
Wildlife management Responsibilities of the parties 35.
Subject to this agreement, the minister is responsible for wildlife.
36.
The minister will manage all wildlife harvesting within the nass Wildlife area in a manner consistent with any total allowable harvest And harvest objectives established under this agreement.
37.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws that are in respect of the Nisg̱a'a nation's rights and obligations in respect of wildlife and Migratory birds under, and that are consistent with, this agreement and That are not inconsistent with the annual management plans, including Matters such as:
A. the distribution among nisg̱a'a citizens of nisg̱a'a wildlife Entitlements;
B. the establishment and administration of licensing requirements for The harvest of wildlife and migratory birds under the nisg̱a'a wildlife Entitlements;
C. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest of species of Wildlife included in the annual management plan, and migratory birds Under the nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; D. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest of species of Wildlife not included in the annual management plan; E. the designation and documentation of persons who harvest wildlife and Migratory birds under the nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; F. the trade or barter of wildlife and migratory birds harvested by Nisg̱a'a citizens under the nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements; and G. other matters agreed to by the parties.
38.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a law made under Paragraph 37, other than a law made under subparagraph 37(d), and a Federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law will prevail to the extent of The inconsistency or conflict.
39.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of any sale of Wildlife, migratory birds, or the inedible by-products or down of Migratory birds, that are harvested under this agreement.
40.
In the event of a conflict between a law made under subparagraph 37 (d) Or paragraph 39 and a federal or provincial law of general application, The federal or provincial law will prevail to the extent of the Conflict.
41.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws to require:
A. that any wildlife or wildlife parts, including meat, harvested under This agreement, that are transported outside nisg̱a'a lands for the Purpose of trade or barter be identified as wildlife for trade or Barter; and B. nisg̱a'a citizens to comply with the annual management plan.
42.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may develop and carry out training programs For hunters in relation to conservation and safety, that are comparable To training programs that are carried out under provincial laws of General application, and successful completion of these programs will be Deemed to satisfy any training requirements in relation to conservation And safety under those provincial laws.
43.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may develop and carry out training programs For hunters in relation to conservation and safety, that are comparable To training programs that are carried out under federal laws.
44.
The person authorized under federal or provincial legislation to Designate persons to administer tests in respect of firearms use or Safety, will designate any person nominated by nisg̱a'a lisims government For the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of administering Federal and provincial tests in respect of firearms use or safety, if The person nominated by nisg̱a'a lisims government has the firearms Licence and the firearms use or safety testing qualifications:
A. generally required of all persons who administer those tests in British columbia; or B. required of aboriginal persons who administer those tests in british Columbia, if specific qualifications have been established for Aboriginal persons to administer those tests.
Wildlife committee 45.
On the effective date, the parties will establish a wildlife committee To facilitate wildlife management within the nass wildlife area. for This purpose, the wildlife committee will carry out the responsibilities Assigned to it under this agreement, including:
A. recommending to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government any Conservation requirements it considers advisable for wildlife species Within the nass wildlife area; B. recommending to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government whether Any wildlife species should be, or continue to be, a designated species; C. recommending to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government each year The total allowable harvest levels for designated species, including the Objectives for:
I. the geographic distribution of the harvest within the nass wildlife Area,
Ii. the sex and age composition of the harvest, Iii. monitoring, reporting, and auditing requirements, and Iv. other similar matters; D. recommending to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government whether There should be an annual management plan for any wildlife species other Than designated species; E. recommending to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government annual Management plans, that are consistent with this agreement and proper Wildlife management, for the nisg̱a'a harvest of designated species and Any other wildlife species for which the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims Government have agreed that there should be an annual management plan; F. advising the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect of the Design of any studies necessary to carry out the terms of this chapter Or to facilitate proper wildlife management within the nass wildlife Area;
G. advising the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect of Amendments to laws that apply to the management of wildlife and wildlife Harvests within the nass wildlife area; H. advising the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government on wildlife Management policies, projects, plans, and programs, that significantly Affect the nass wildlife area and its wildlife populations; I. developing long-term wildlife management plans it considers necessary For carrying out its responsibilities; J. facilitating sharing of information and plans for existing and Proposed wildlife harvesting that could affect or be affected by nisg̱a'a Wildlife harvesting; K. communicating with other management or advisory bodies about matters Of mutual interest; and L. carrying out other activities agreed to by the nisg̱a'a nation and British columbia or canada, as the case may be.
46.
The wildlife committee has up to nine members. the nisg̱a'a nation and British columbia will each appoint an equal number of members, to a Maximum of four each, and canada will appoint one member, to represent Them on the wildlife committee. the members of the wildlife committee Representing the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia are Responsible for functions in respect of wildlife fish. the members of The wildlife committee representing the nisg̱a'a nation and british Columbia are responsible for functions in respect of all other wildlife.
47.
The wildlife committee will meet as often as necessary to carry out its Responsibilities and will establish its procedures.
48.
Whenever possible, the wildlife committee will carry out its Responsibilities by consensus. if there is no consensus, the wildlife Committee will submit the recommendations or advice of each party's Representatives.
49.
If it is impracticable for the wildlife committee to address an issue, Each party's representatives may submit the recommendations or advice.
50.
British columbia or canada, as the case may be, will consult with the Nisg̱a'a nation before enacting regulations or adopting policies that Will significantly affect wildlife management or harvesting within the Nass wildlife area. unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia or Canada, as the case may be, otherwise agree, this consultation will take Place through the wildlife committee.
51.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and the minister will provide the wildlife Committee with all relevant data in their possession in respect of all Wildlife harvesting and other matters relevant to wildlife management Within the nass wildlife area.
Other wildlife management bodies 52.
The parties acknowledge that wildlife management may involve the Consideration of matters on a regional or watershed basis.
53.
If canada or british columbia proposes to establish a wildlife or Migratory birds management advisory body:
A. for an area that includes any portion of the nass wildlife area; or B. in respect of wildlife or migratory bird populations whose normal Range of movement includes any portion of the nass wildlife area Canada or british columbia, as the case may be, will consult with the Nisg̱a'a nation in developing that body.
54.
The nisg̱a'a nation is entitled to appropriate representation on any Regional or provincial advisory body established by canada or british Columbia to provide advice or recommendations to the minister in respect Of:
A. matters pertaining to wildlife or migratory birds in an area that Includes any portion of the nass wildlife area; or B. wildlife or migratory bird populations whose normal range of movement Includes any portion of the nass wildlife area.
Annual management plans 55.
An annual management plan will set out the management provisions in Respect of the nisg̱a'a harvest under this agreement of designated Species and other species that the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia Or canada, as the case may be, have agreed should be included in the Annual management plan. the plan will include, as appropriate, Provisions consistent with this agreement in respect of:
A. the identification of nisg̱a'a harvesters; B. the methods, timing, and locations of the harvest; C. the sex and age composition of the harvest of designated species and Other species as agreed; D. monitoring of the harvest and data collection; E. possession and transportation of wildlife or wildlife parts; F. the level of harvest of any designated and any other species that may Be harvested on nisg̱a'a public lands by persons other than nisg̱a'a Citizens, in accordance with the access chapter; G. angling guiding under paragraph 83; and H. other matters in respect of wildlife that the nisg̱a'a nation and British columbia or canada, as the case may be, agree to include in the Annual management plan.
56.
Each year nisg̱a'a lisims government will propose an annual management Plan, for designated species and any other species that the nisg̱a'a Nation and british columbia or canada, as the case may be, have agreed To include in the annual management plan, that will:
A. be consistent with nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements to wildlife; B. set out any nisg̱a'a preferences for methods, timing, and locations of Harvest; and C. take into account any management concerns identified by the minister Or nisg̱a'a lisims government.
57.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will forward the proposed annual management Plans to the wildlife committee on a timely basis.
58.
The wildlife committee, on a timely basis, will:
A. consider the proposed annual management plans, taking into account The matters set out in paragraph 59; B. make any appropriate adjustments that are necessary to integrate the Nisg̱a'a annual management plans with other wildlife conservation and Harvesting plans, while giving effect to the nisg̱a'a preferences in Respect of methods, timing, and locations of harvest, to the extent Possible; and C. make recommendations in respect of the proposed annual management Plans to the minister and nisg̱a'a lisims government.
Review of recommendations 59.
In considering the recommendations of the wildlife committee or its Members, the minister will take into account:
A. conservation requirements and availability of wildlife resources; B. any nisg̱a'a preferences in respect of harvest locations, methods, or Times stated in the recommendations; C. utilization of the wildlife resources for the benefit of all Canadians;
D. efficient and effective management of wildlife resources; E. requirements for the integration and efficient management of the Overall wildlife resources; F. accepted scientific procedures for wildlife management; and G. other relevant statutory considerations.
60.
The minister will not delegate the authority to reject recommendations Of the wildlife committee, or its members, in whole or in part, below The assistant deputy minister level.
61.
If special circumstances make it impracticable to receive Recommendations or advice from the wildlife committee, the minister:
A. may make the decision or take the action that the minister considers Necessary, without receiving recommendations or advice from the wildlife Committee;
B. will advise nisg̱a'a lisims government and the wildlife committee as Soon as practicable of that decision or action; and C. will provide nisg̱a'a lisims government and the wildlife committee With written reasons for that decision or action if the matter is one About which the wildlife committee is required to make a recommendation.
62.
If an annual management plan, or any amendment to an annual management Plan, recommended by the wildlife committee or its members is consistent With this agreement, the minister will approve the annual management Plan or the amendment.
63.
If the minister receives, from the wildlife committee, more than one Recommendation that is consistent with this agreement, in respect of an Annual management plan, or any amendment to an annual management plan, The minister will approve the recommendation that, in the minister's Opinion, best takes into account the matters set out in paragraph 59.
64.
If the minister does not approve an annual management plan, or any Amendment to an annual management plan, recommended by the wildlife Committee or its members, the minister will provide written reasons and Specify what changes are necessary for its approval.
65.
The minister, on a timely basis and in a manner consistent with this Agreement, will:
A. approve or reject, in whole or in part, all recommendations, other Than recommendations in respect of an annual management plan, made by The wildlife committee or its members; and B. provide written reasons for rejecting any recommendations.
66.
Notwithstanding paragraph 62, the minister will not approve any method Of harvest that differs from those permitted under federal or provincial Laws of general application unless the minister is satisfied that the Method is consistent with public safety.
Federal and provincial laws of general application 67.
In order to:
A. avoid duplication of requirements between an annual management plan And federal and provincial laws of general application; and B. otherwise facilitate the management of nisg̱a'a wildlife harvesting If there is an inconsistency between an annual management plan and a Federal or provincial law of general application, the annual management Plan prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.
Trade, barter, and sale of wildlife 68.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or barter among themselves, or With other aboriginal people, any wildlife or wildlife parts harvested Under this agreement.
69.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37, 38, and 68, any export of wildlife or Wildlife parts from british columbia or canada will be in accordance With federal and provincial laws of general application.
70.
Any sale of wildlife or wildlife parts, including meat, harvested under This agreement will be in accordance with federal and provincial laws of General application, and with any nisg̱a'a law in respect of sale of Wildlife.
Trapping
71.
On the effective date, the traplines wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a Lands that are, on the effective date, not registered to any person, and Are listed in schedule b, are registered to the nisg̱a'a nation.
72.
If the holder of a trapline within the nass wildlife area agrees to Transfer the trapline to the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a institution, or a Nisg̱a'a corporation, british columbia will consent to the transfer.
73.
If a trapline that is wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a lands becomes Vacant by reason of abandonment or by operation of law, british columbia Will register the trapline to the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a institution, Or a nisg̱a'a corporation, as designated by nisg̱a'a lisims government.
74.
Nisg̱a'a citizens who hold traplines that are wholly outside nisg̱a'a Lands continue to hold those traplines in accordance with federal and Provincial laws of general application. those traplines are set out in Schedule c.
75.
British columbia will not register any new traplines within nisg̱a'a Lands without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation.
76.
British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation before approving Any proposed transfer of, or change in terms and conditions of, an Existing trapline that is wholly or partially within nisg̱a'a lands.
77.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreement in respect of nisg̱a'a lisims government authority for The management of some or all of traplines that are registered to the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a institution, a nisg̱a'a Corporation, or nisg̱a'a citizens, in the nass wildlife area.
78.
Subject to paragraph 79, trapping on nisg̱a'a lands is regulated in the Same manner as trapping is regulated on fee simple land in british Columbia.
79.
Trapping on traplines that are held by an individual and are on nisg̱a'a Lands, is regulated in the same manner as trapping on crown land in British columbia, but construction of cabins or other structures Associated with traplines is subject to nisg̱a'a laws.
80.
For greater certainty, in accordance with paragraph 13 of the general Provisions chapter, federal and provincial laws of general application Apply to the sale of furs.
Guiding
81.
If a guide outfitter's certificate registered to a person other than the Nisg̱a'a nation ceases to apply to an area wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a Lands by reason of abandonment or operation of law, british columbia Will issue to the nisg̱a'a nation a guide outfitter's licence and a guide Outfitter's certificate for the area set out in appendix k. this licence And certificate will be subject to federal and provincial laws of General application.
82.
British columbia will not issue a new guide outfitter's certificate or Licence that applies to any portion of nisg̱a'a lands without the consent Of the nisg̱a'a nation. british columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a Nation before approving any proposed transfer, or change in terms and Conditions, of any guide outfitter's certificate or licence that applies To any portion of the nass wildlife area.
83.
On the effective date, british columbia will issue an angling guide Licence to the nisg̱a'a nation, for the watercourses outside of nisg̱a'a Lands that are identified in schedule d.
84.
British columbia will not:
A. issue any new angling guide licences that apply to watercourses Within nisg̱a'a lands; or B. include any watercourses within nisg̱a'a lands in the angling guide Licences set out in appendix c-7, other than those watercourses that are Listed in those angling guide licences on the effective date Without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation.
85.
British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation before approving Any proposed transfer, or change in terms and conditions, of an existing Angling guide licence that applies to watercourses within nisg̱a'a lands.
86.
The annual management plan will include provisions in respect of nisg̱a'a Guiding of anglers within nisg̱a'a lands that are comparable to those Provisions applicable outside of nisg̱a'a lands in respect of matters Such as training, insurance, and reporting.
Migratory birds Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlement 87.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to harvest migratory birds within the Nass area throughout the year for domestic purposes, in accordance with This agreement, subject to:
A. measures that are necessary for conservation; and B. legislation enacted for the purposes of public health or public Safety.
88.
The entitlement set out in paragraph 87 is a right to harvest in a Manner that:
A. is consistent with the communal nature of the nisg̱a'a harvest for Domestic purposes, and B. does not interfere with other authorized uses of crown land.
89.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 87 and 88, the crown may authorize uses of or Dispose of crown land, and any authorized use or disposition may affect The methods, times, and locations of harvesting migratory birds under Nisg̱a'a wildlife entitlements, provided that the crown ensures that Those authorized uses or dispositions do not deny nisg̱a'a citizens the Reasonable opportunity to harvest migratory birds under nisg̱a'a wildlife Entitlements.
Trade, barter, and sale 90.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to trade or barter among themselves, or With other aboriginal people, any migratory birds harvested under this Agreement.
91.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 37, 38, and 90:
A. any export of migratory birds from british columbia or canada; and B. the identification of migratory birds that are transported outside Nisg̱a'a lands for trade and barter Will be in accordance with federal and provincial laws of general Application.
92.
Any sale of migratory birds will be in accordance with federal and Provincial laws of general application and with any nisg̱a'a law in Respect of sale of migratory birds harvested under this agreement.
93.
Nisg̱a'a citizens have the right to sell inedible by-products, including Down, of migratory birds harvested under this agreement.
94.
Any collection and sale of down of migratory birds other than down of Migratory birds harvested under this agreement will be in accordance With federal and provincial laws.
Management
95.
Canada will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation in respect of the management Of the harvest by aboriginal people of migratory birds within the nass Area.
96.
Canada will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation in respect of the Formulation of canada's positions relating to international agreements That may significantly affect migratory birds or their habitat within The nass area.
Other
97.
The parties may negotiate agreements for purposes of managing habitat Critical for conservation of migratory birds or endangered species.
98.
The nisg̱a'a nation may negotiate agreements with canada or british Columbia concerning enforcement of federal, provincial, or nisg̱a'a laws In respect of wildlife and migratory birds.
99.
Nisg̱a'a laws enacted in accordance with this chapter may be enforced by Persons authorized to enforce federal, provincial, or nisg̱a'a laws in Respect of wildlife or migratory birds in british columbia.
Schedule a — nisg̱a'a wildlife allocations of designated species General
1.
If the calculation of a nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation results in a Fractional number, the nisg̱a'a allocation will be:
A. the next higher whole number, if the number is 0.5 or greater; and B. the next lower whole number, if the number is less than 0.5.
Moose
2.
The nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of moose from the total allowable Harvest is:
A. 80% of the first 50 moose; plus B. 32% of the next 50 moose; plus C. 56% of all remaining moose, to a maximum of 170 moose.
Mountain goats 3.
The nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of mountain goats is 25% of the total Allowable harvest.
Grizzly bears 4.
The nisg̱a'a wildlife allocation of grizzly bears is:
A. if the total allowable harvest is six or fewer grizzly bears, 40% of The total allowable harvest; B. if the total allowable harvest is seven or eight grizzly bears, 50% Of the total allowable harvest; C. if the total allowable harvest is nine or ten grizzly bears, 40% of The total allowable harvest; or D. if the total allowable harvest is greater than 10 grizzly bears, 40% Of the first 10 grizzly bears, plus 30% of the remainder of the total Allowable harvest.
Schedule b — unregistered traplines wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a Lands on the effective date Trapline number 616 t 014 Schedule c — traplines wholly outside nisg̱a'a lands held by nisg̱a'a Citizens
614t 010 614t 079 614t 112 614t 016 614t 083 615t 018 614t 017 614t 084 615t 026 614t 018 614t 085 615t 030 614t 048 614t 086 616t 006 614t 078 614t 087 616t 007 614t 090 614t 093 614t 096 614t 092 614t 094 614t 097 614t 099 Schedule d — streams in nisg̱a'a angling guide licence Nass river watershed Bell-irving river Bowser river Burton creek Cranberry river Kinskuch river Kiteen river Kwinageese river Meziadin river Nass river Oweegee lake Welda creek Tchitin river Portland canal Bear river Observatory inlet Illiance river Kitsault river Chapter 10
Environmental assessment and protection Environmental assessment 1.
At the request of any party, the parties will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreements:
A. to coordinate any nisg̱a'a, federal, and provincial environmental Assessment requirements that will meet the parties' legal requirements Concerning environmental assessments; and B. to avoid duplication of environmental assessment requirements.
2.
Agreements under paragraph 1 may be between the nisg̱a'a nation and one Or both of the other parties, and may cover the environmental assessment Of one or more projects, including an assessment referred to in Paragraph 4.
3.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the environmental Assessment of projects on nisg̱a'a lands. in the event of a conflict Between a nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or provincial Law of general application, the federal or provincial law will prevail To the extent of the conflict.
4.
A project on nisg̱a'a lands that requires an environmental assessment Under nisg̱a'a law and the law of another party will be assessed only Under the process prescribed by nisg̱a'a law if the nisg̱a'a nation and The other party agree under paragraph 1 that the nisg̱a'a environmental Assessment will provide the information that the other party requires to Make its decisions concerning the project. in the absence of an Agreement, the parties may carry out concurrent environmental Assessments.
5.
If a proposed project on nisg̱a'a lands may reasonably be expected to Have adverse environmental effects, the nisg̱a'a nation will ensure that Canada and british columbia:
A. receive timely notice of, and relevant available information on, the Project and the potential adverse environmental effects; B. are consulted regarding the environmental effects of the project if There may be adverse environmental effects off nisg̱a'a lands, or on Federal or provincial interests referred to in this agreement; and C. receive an opportunity to participate in any environmental assessment Under nisg̱a'a laws related to those effects, in accordance with those Laws, if there may be significant adverse environmental effects off Nisg̱a'a lands, or on federal or provincial interests referred to in this Agreement.
6.
If a proposed project that will be located off nisg̱a'a lands may Reasonably be expected to have adverse environmental effects on Residents of nisg̱a'a lands, nisg̱a'a lands or nisg̱a'a interests set out In this agreement, canada or british columbia, or both, as the case may Be, will ensure that the nisg̱a'a nation:
A. receives timely notice of, and relevant available information on, the Project and the potential adverse environmental effects; B. is consulted regarding the environmental effects of the project; and C. receives an opportunity to participate in any environmental Assessment under federal or provincial laws related to those effects, in Accordance with those laws, if there may be significant adverse Environmental effects.
7.
If canada or british columbia establishes a board, panel, or tribunal to Provide advice or make recommendations with respect to the environmental Effects of a project on nisg̱a'a lands or a project off nisg̱a'a lands That may reasonably be expected to have adverse environmental effects on Residents of nisg̱a'a lands, nisg̱a'a lands, or nisg̱a'a interests set out In this agreement, the nisg̱a'a nation will:
A. have standing before the board, panel, or tribunal; and B. be entitled to nominate a member of the assessment board, panel, or Tribunal, unless the board, panel, or tribunal is a decision-making Body, such as the national energy board.
8.
All environmental assessment processes referred to in this agreement Will, in addition to the requirements of applicable environmental Assessment legislation:
A. coordinate to the extent possible the environmental assessment Requirements placed by the parties upon a project proponent; B. require the project proponent to provide information or studies, as Appropriate, about the project and its potential environmental effects And the measures that can be taken to prevent or mitigate those effects; C. ensure that all information relevant to the assessment of the project Is available to the public, other than information that is required to Be kept confidential under applicable law; D. provide for public participation in the assessment process, including Public notice of the project, an opportunity to make submissions, and, When deemed appropriate by the party conducting the assessment, public Hearings conducted by an independent review panel; E. assess whether the project can reasonably be expected to have adverse Environmental effects on residents of nisg̱a'a lands, nisg̱a'a lands, or Nisg̱a'a interests set out in this agreement and, where appropriate, make Recommendations to prevent or mitigate those effects; F. assess the effects of the project on the existing and future Economic, social and cultural well-being of nisg̱a'a citizens who may be Affected by the project; G. set out time periods within which the assessor must make its Recommendation in respect of whether or not the project should proceed; H. provide for recommendations, based on the assessment, to the party or Parties with decision-making authority over the project, in respect of Whether the project should proceed; I. take into account any agreements between the project proponent and The nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village concerning the effects of the Project; and J. be conducted and completed by a party before that party issues final Approval.
9.
Decisions by any party regarding the issuance of a permit or approval For a project will take into account the recommendations of the Environmental assessment.
10.
In exercising decision-making authority for projects that may have Adverse environmental effects on residents of nisg̱a'a lands, nisg̱a'a Lands, or nisg̱a'a interests set out in this agreement, the decision Maker will take into account, but will not be bound by, any agreements Between the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village and the project Proponent concerning the project.
Environmental protection 11.
Except as otherwise set out in this agreement, nisg̱a'a lisims government May make laws in respect of environmental protection on nisg̱a'a lands, Including discharges into streams within nisg̱a'a lands. in the event of A conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or Provincial law, the federal or provincial law will prevail to the extent Of the conflict.
12.
Any party may respond to an environmental emergency or natural disaster If the party with primary responsibility for responding has not Responded, or is unable to respond, in a timely manner.
13.
If there is an environmental emergency or natural disaster, the party Responding will, if possible, notify the party with primary Responsibility in advance of taking action, but, in any case, will Notify that party as soon as practicable after responding.
14.
Canada and the nisg̱a'a nation may enter into agreements concerning the Performance of specified federal environmental protection functions by Nisg̱a'a institutions.
15.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreements concerning the performance of specified provincial Environmental protection functions by nisg̱a'a institutions within an Area to be defined in those agreements.
16.
Any agreements entered into under paragraph 15 will be in accordance With the technical and administrative capacity and resources of nisg̱a'a Institutions to carry out the functions in accordance with relevant Provincial standards.
17.
Each party will enforce its environmental laws in the nass area in a Fair, impartial and effective manner, through appropriate governmental Action, consistent with the exercise of prosecutorial discretion.
18.
No party should relax its environmental standards in the nass area for The purpose of providing an encouragement to the establishment, Acquisition, expansion, or retention of an investment.
19.
This agreement does not preclude a party, within the scope of its Jurisdiction, from establishing environmental standards that take into Account the specific environmental conditions of a region, location, or Type of project.
Chapter 11
Nisg̱a'a government Self-government 1.
The nisg̱a'a nation has the right to self-government, and the authority To make laws, as set out in this agreement.
Recognition of nisg̱a'a  lisims government and nisg̱a'a Village governments 2.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village governments, as provided For under the nisg̱a'a constitution, are the governments of the nisg̱a'a Nation and the nisg̱a'a villages, respectively.
3.
Except as may otherwise be agreed to by the relevant parties in respect Of particular matters, nisg̱a'a lisims government is responsible for Intergovernmental relations between the nisg̱a'a nation on the one hand, And canada or british columbia, or both, on the other hand.
4.
The exercise of nisg̱a'a government jurisdiction and authority set out in This agreement will evolve over time.
Legal status and capacity 5.
The nisg̱a'a nation, and each nisg̱a'a village, is a separate and distinct Legal entity, with the capacity, rights, powers, and privileges of a Natural person, including to:
A. enter into contracts and agreements; B. acquire and hold property or an interest in property, and sell or Otherwise dispose of that property or interest; C. raise, spend, invest, or borrow money; D. sue and be sued; and E. do other things ancillary to the exercise of its rights, powers and Privileges.
6.
The rights, powers, and privileges of the nisg̱a'a nation, and of each Nisg̱a'a village, will be exercised in accordance with:
A. this agreement; B. the nisg̱a'a constitution; and C. nisg̱a'a laws.
7.
The nisg̱a'a nation will act through nisg̱a'a lisims government in Exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its Duties, functions, and obligations.
8.
Each nisg̱a'a village will act through its nisg̱a'a village government in Exercising its rights, powers, and privileges and in carrying out its Duties, functions, and obligations.
Nisg̱a'a constitution 9.
The nisg̱a'a nation will have a nisg̱a'a constitution, consistent with This agreement, which will:
A. provide for nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village Governments, including their duties, composition, and membership; B. provide that this agreement sets out the authority of nisg̱a'a Government to make laws; C. assign to nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village governments The rights, powers, privileges, and responsibilities under this Agreement that are not specifically assigned to nisg̱a'a lisims Government;
D. provide for the enactment of laws by nisg̱a'a government; E. provide for challenging the validity of nisg̱a'a laws; F. provide for the creation, continuation, amalgamation, dissolution, Naming, or renaming of:
I. nisg̱a'a villages on nisg̱a'a lands, and Ii. nisg̱a'a urban locals; G. provide for nisg̱a'a urban locals, or other means by which nisg̱a'a Citizens residing outside of the nass area may participate in nisg̱a'a Lisims government; H. provide for the establishment of nisg̱a'a public institutions; I. provide for the role of the nisg̱a'a elders, Simgigat
And
Sigidimhaana
K
, in providing guidance and interpretation of the Ayuuk
To nisg̱a'a government; J. provide that in the event of an inconsistency or conflict between the Nisg̱a'a constitution and the provisions of any nisg̱a'a law, the nisg̱a'a Law is, to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict, of no force or Effect;
K. require that nisg̱a'a government be democratically accountable to Nisg̱a'a citizens, and, in particular:
I. that elections for nisg̱a'a lisims government and each nisg̱a'a village Government be held at least every five years, and Ii. that, subject to residency, age, and other requirements set out in The nisg̱a'a constitution or nisg̱a'a law, all nisg̱a'a citizens are Eligible to vote in nisg̱a'a elections and to hold office in nisg̱a'a Government;
L. require a system of financial administration comparable to standards Generally accepted for governments in canada, through which nisg̱a'a Lisims government will be financially accountable to nisg̱a'a citizens, And nisg̱a'a village governments will be financially accountable to Nisg̱a'a citizens of those nisg̱a'a villages; M. require conflict of interest rules that are comparable to standards Generally accepted for governments in canada; N. provide conditions under which the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a Village may:
I. dispose of the whole of its estate or interest in any parcel of Nisg̱a'a lands or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, and Ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, create or dispose of any Lesser estate or interest in any parcel of nisg̱a'a lands or nisg̱a'a fee Simple lands; O. recognize and protect rights and freedoms of nisg̱a'a citizens; P. provide that every nisg̱a'a participant who is a canadian citizen or Permanent resident of canada is entitled to be a nisg̱a'a citizen; Q. provide for nisg̱a'a government during the period from the effective Date until the date on which the office holders elected in the first Nisg̱a'a elections take office; R. provide for amendment of the nisg̱a'a constitution; and S. include other provisions, as determined by the nisg̱a'a nation.
10.
The nisg̱a'a constitution, as approved in accordance with the Ratification chapter, comes into force on the effective date.
11.
The nisg̱a'a constitution will initially include an amending procedure Requiring that an amendment be approved by at least 70% of nisg̱a'a Citizens voting in a referendum.
Nisg̱a'a government structure 12.
Each nisg̱a'a village government consists of elected members as set out In the nisg̱a'a constitution.
13.
On the effective date, there are three nisg̱a'a urban locals, as set out In the nisg̱a'a constitution, known as:
A. greater vancouver urban local; B. terrace urban local; and C. prince rupert/port edward urban local.
14.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government consists of the following members, as set out In the nisg̱a'a constitution:
A. at least three officers elected by the nisg̱a'a nation in a general Election;
B. the elected members of the nisg̱a'a village governments; and C. at least one representative elected by the nisg̱a'a citizens of each Nisg̱a'a urban local.
Elections
15.
Elections for nisg̱a'a government will be held in accordance with the Nisg̱a'a constitution and nisg̱a'a laws.
Appeal and review of administrative decisions 16.
Nisg̱a'a government will provide appropriate procedures for the appeal or Review of administrative decisions of nisg̱a'a public institutions.
17.
The supreme court of british columbia has jurisdiction in respect of Applications for judicial review of administrative decisions of nisg̱a'a Institutions exercising a statutory power of decision under nisg̱a'a law, But no application for judicial review of those decisions may be brought Until all procedures for appeal or review provided by nisg̱a'a government And applicable to that decision have been exhausted.
Register of laws 18.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will:
A. maintain a public registry of nisg̱a'a laws in the english language And, at the discretion of nisg̱a'a lisims government, in the nisg̱a'a Language;
B. provide canada and british columbia with a copy of a nisg̱a'a law as Soon as practicable after that law is enacted; and C. establish procedures for the coming into force and publication of Nisg̱a'a laws.
Relations with individuals who are not nisg̱a'a citizens 19.
Nisg̱a'a government will consult with individuals who are ordinarily Resident within nisg̱a'a lands and who are not nisg̱a'a citizens about Nisg̱a'a government decisions that directly and significantly affect Them.
20.
Nisg̱a'a government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily Resident within nisg̱a'a lands and who are not nisg̱a'a citizens may Participate in a nisg̱a'a public institution, if the activities of that Nisg̱a'a public institution directly and significantly affect them.
21.
The means of participation under paragraph 20 will be:
A. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the nisg̱a'a Public institution in respect of activities that significantly and Directly affect them; B. if the members of a nisg̱a'a public institution are elected:
I. the ability to vote for or become members of the nisg̱a'a public Institution, or Ii. a guaranteed number of members, with the right to vote, on the Nisg̱a'a public institution; or C. other comparable measures.
22.
Nisg̱a'a government will provide that individuals who are ordinarily Resident within nisg̱a'a lands and who are not nisg̱a'a citizens may avail Themselves of the appeal or review procedures referred to in paragraph 16.
23.
Nisg̱a'a government may appoint individuals who are not nisg̱a'a citizens As members of nisg̱a'a public institutions.
Transitional provisions 24.
From the effective date until the office holders elected in the first Nisg̱a'a elections take office:
A. the members and officers of the general executive council of the Nisg̱a'a tribal council on the day immediately before the effective date Are the members of nisg̱a'a lisims government, in accordance with the Transition provisions of the nisg̱a'a constitution; and B. the chief councillor and councillors of each of the nisg̱a'a band Councils under the Indian act On the day immediately before the effective date are the elected members Of the respective successor nisg̱a'a village governments.
25.
The first elections for the officers of nisg̱a'a lisims government, the Members of each of the nisg̱a'a village governments, and the nisg̱a'a Urban local representatives to nisg̱a'a lisims government, will be held No later than six months after the effective date.
26.
The parties acknowledge that it is desirable that the exercise of Nisg̱a'a government authority be introduced in an effective and orderly Manner.
27.
Before nisg̱a'a lisims government first exercises law making authority in Respect of social services, health services, child and family services, Adoption, or pre-school to grade 12 education, nisg̱a'a lisims government Will give notice to canada and british columbia of the intended exercise Of authority.
28.
After nisg̱a'a lisims government has given notice under paragraph 27, at The request of canada or british columbia, nisg̱a'a lisims government Will consult or otherwise discuss with canada or british columbia, as The case may be, in respect of:
A. any transfer of cases and related documentation from federal or Provincial institutions to nisg̱a'a institutions, including any Confidentiality and privacy considerations; B. any transfer of assets from federal or provincial institutions to Nisg̱a'a institutions; C. immunity of nisg̱a'a government employees providing services or Exercising authority under nisg̱a'a laws; D. any appropriate amendments to federal or provincial laws; and E. other matters agreed to by the parties.
29.
The parties may negotiate agreements regarding any of the matters set Out in paragraph 28, but an agreement under this paragraph is not a Condition precedent to the exercise of law making authority by nisg̱a'a Government.
Amendment of provincial legislation 30.
British columbia will consult with nisg̱a'a lisims government before Amending a provincial law if:
A. this agreement provides for nisg̱a'a government law making authority In respect of the subject matter of the provincial law being amended; B. nisg̱a'a government has made a law in respect of that subject matter; C. the validity of the nisg̱a'a law depends upon a comparison with the Provincial law being amended; and D. the proposed amendment would result in the nisg̱a'a law ceasing to be Valid.
31.
Consultations under paragraph 30 may include:
A. the nature and purpose of the proposed amendment to the provincial Law;
B. the anticipated date the proposed amendment will take effect; C. any necessary changes to nisg̱a'a law as a result of the amendment; And
D. other matters agreed to by the parties.
Legislative jurisdiction and authority General
32.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between this agreement and The provisions of any nisg̱a'a law, this agreement prevails to the extent Of the inconsistency or conflict.
33.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village governments, respectively, Have the principal authority, as set out in, and in accordance with, This agreement, in respect of nisg̱a'a government, nisg̱a'a citizenship, Nisg̱a'a culture, nisg̱a'a language, nisg̱a'a lands, and nisg̱a'a assets.
Nisg̱a'a government 34.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the Administration, management and operation of nisg̱a'a government , Including:
A. the establishment of nisg̱a'a public institutions, including their Respective powers, duties, composition, and membership; B. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification Of members, officials, employees, and appointees of nisg̱a'a Institutions;
C. the establishment of nisg̱a'a corporations, but the registration or Incorporation of the nisg̱a'a corporations must be under federal or Provincial laws; D. the delegation of nisg̱a'a government authority, but the authority to Make laws may be delegated only to a nisg̱a'a institution; E. financial administration of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, and Nisg̱a'a institutions; and F. elections, by-elections, and referenda.
35.
Each nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the Administration, management, and operation of that nisg̱a'a village Government
, Including:
A. the establishment of nisg̱a'a public institutions of that nisg̱a'a Village government, including their respective powers, duties, Composition, and membership; B. powers, duties, responsibilities, remuneration, and indemnification Of members, officials, employees, and appointees of nisg̱a'a public Institutions referred to in subparagraph (a); and C. the delegation of the nisg̱a'a village government's authority, but the Authority to make laws may be delegated only to a nisg̱a'a institution.
36.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraphs 34 or 35 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law Prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
37.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the creation, Continuation, amalgamation, dissolution, naming, or renaming of:
A. nisg̱a'a villages on nisg̱a'a lands; and B. nisg̱a'a urban locals.
38.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 37 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
Nisg̱a'a citizenship 39.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of nisg̱a'a Citizenship. the conferring of nisg̱a'a citizenship does not:
A. confer or deny rights of entry into canada, canadian citizenship, the Right to be registered as an indian under the Indian act , or any of the rights or benefits under the Indian act ; or B. except as set out in this agreement or in any federal or provincial Law, impose any obligation on canada or british columbia to provide Rights or benefits.
40.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 39 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
Culture and language 41.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws to preserve, promote, and Develop nisg̱a'a culture and nisg̱a'a language, including laws to Authorize or accredit the use, reproduction, and representation of Nisg̱a'a cultural symbols and practices, and the teaching of nisg̱a'a Language.
42.
Except as provided for by federal or provincial law, nisg̱a'a lisims Government jurisdiction under paragraph 41 to make laws in respect of Nisg̱a'a culture and nisg̱a'a language does not include jurisdiction to Make laws in respect of intellectual property, the official languages of Canada or the prohibition of activities outside of nisg̱a'a lands.
43.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 41 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
Nisg̱a'a property in nisg̱a'a lands 44.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of:
A. the use and management of nisg̱a'a lands owned by the nisg̱a'a nation, A nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation; B. the possession of nisg̱a'a lands owned by the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation, including the granting of Rights of possession in nisg̱a'a lands and any conditions or restrictions On those rights; C. the disposition of an estate or interest of the nisg̱a'a nation, a Nisg̱a'a village or a nisg̱a'a corporation, in any parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands, including:
I. the disposition of the whole of an estate or interest, Ii. from the whole of its estate or interest, the creation or Disposition of any lesser estate or interest, and Iii. the creation of rights of way and covenants similar to those in Sections 218 and 219 of the Land title act ; D. the conditions on, and restrictions subject to which, the nisg̱a'a Nation, a nisg̱a'a village or a nisg̱a'a corporation may create or dispose Of its estates or interests in any parcel of nisg̱a'a lands; E. the conditions or restrictions, to be established at the time of the Creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the nisg̱a'a nation, A nisg̱a'a village or a nisg̱a'a corporation in any parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands, in respect of that and any subsequent disposition; F. the reservation or exception of interests, rights, privileges, and Titles from any creation or disposition of an estate or interest of the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or nisg̱a'a corporation in nisg̱a'a Lands; and G. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the Nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, and nisg̱a'a corporations in nisg̱a'a Lands.
45.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 44 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
46.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 44 (c) in respect of estates or interests That are recognized and permitted by federal or provincial laws of General application will be consistent with federal and provincial laws Of general application in respect of those estates or interests, other Than the provincial torrens system and any federal land title or land Registry laws.
Regulation, administration and expropriation of nisg̱a'a lands 47.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of:
A. the use, management, planning, zoning, and development of nisg̱a'a Lands;
B. regulation, licensing, and prohibition of the operation on nisg̱a'a Lands of businesses, professions, and trades, including the imposition Of licence fees or other fees, other than laws in respect of the Accreditation, certification, or professional conduct of professions and Trades; and C. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of Nisg̱a'a lands.
48.
Each nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the matters Referred to in paragraph 47, to apply on their respective nisg̱a'a Village lands.
49.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 47 or 48 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law Prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
50.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of:
A. subject to paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of the land title chapter, the Establishment and operation of a land title or land registry system, in Respect of estates, interests, charges, encumbrances, conditions, Provisos, restrictions, exceptions, and reservations on or in nisg̱a'a Lands, including the establishment of a requirement similar to Subsection 20 (1) of the Land title act ; B. designation of any parcel of nisg̱a'a lands as nisg̱a'a private lands Or nisg̱a'a village lands; C. expropriation by nisg̱a'a government for public purposes and public Works, of estates, or interests in nisg̱a'a lands other than:
I. interests referred to in paragraphs 30 and 41 of the lands chapter to Which nisg̱a'a lands are subject on the effective date, Ii. subject to paragraphs 35 and 36 of the lands chapter, interests Referred to in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the lands chapter to which Nisg̱a'a lands are subject on the effective date, Iii. estates or interests expropriated by canada in accordance with the Lands chapter, and Iv. rights of way acquired by british columbia or a public utility in Accordance with the roads and rights of way chapter; and D. other similar matters related to the regulation and administration of Nisg̱a'a lands.
51.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 50 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
52.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 45, 49 and 51, in the event of a conflict Between a nisg̱a'a law and a federal law of general application in Respect of prospecting for, production of, refining, and handling of Uranium or other products capable of releasing atomic energy, the Federal law prevails to the extent of the conflict. nothing in this Paragraph is intended to require the production of uranium or other Products capable of releasing atomic energy.
Nisg̱a'a assets 53.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of:
A. the use, possession, and management of the assets, other than real Property, on nisg̱a'a lands of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, and Nisg̱a'a corporations; B. the imposition of conditions on, and restrictions subject to which, Nisg̱a'a government, and nisg̱a'a corporations may authorize the Disposition of the assets, other than real property, within nisg̱a'a Lands of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, and nisg̱a'a corporations; And
C. other similar matters relating to the property interests of the Nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, and nisg̱a'a corporations in their Assets, other than real property, on nisg̱a'a lands.
54.
A nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the matters Referred to in paragraph 53, to apply to its assets, other than real Property, on its nisg̱a'a village lands.
55.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 53 or 54 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law Prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
56.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the use, Possession, and management of assets, located off of nisg̱a'a lands, of The nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a corporation.
57.
A nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the use, Possession, and management of assets of that nisg̱a'a village, located Off of nisg̱a'a lands.
58.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 56 or 57 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal Or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
Public order, peace, and safety 59.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the regulation, Control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on Nisg̱a'a lands, or on submerged lands within nisg̱a'a lands, other than Actions, activities, or undertakings on submerged lands that are Authorized by the crown, that constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance, A trespass, a danger to public health, or a threat to public order, Peace, or safety.
60.
A nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the regulation, Control, or prohibition of any actions, activities, or undertakings on The nisg̱a'a village lands of that nisg̱a'a village, or on submerged lands Within those nisg̱a'a village lands, other than actions, activities, or Undertakings on those submerged lands that are authorized by the crown, That constitute, or may constitute, a nuisance, a trespass, a danger to Public health, or a threat to public order, peace, or safety.
61.
For greater certainty, nisg̱a'a government authority does not include Authority in respect of criminal law.
62.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 59 or 60 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal Or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
Duty to accommodate 63.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws prescribing the aspects of Nisg̱a'a culture, including aspects such as cultural leave from Employment, to be accommodated in accordance with federal and provincial Laws of general application by employers and employees' organizations That have the duty to accommodate employees under those federal and Provincial laws.
Industrial relations 64.
If, in any industrial relations matter or industrial relations Proceeding involving individuals employed on nisg̱a'a lands, other than a Matter or proceeding arising from a collective agreement, an issue Arises in respect of this agreement or nisg̱a'a culture, the matter or Proceeding will not be concluded until notice has been served on nisg̱a'a Lisims government in accordance with the rules for giving notice that Govern that matter or proceeding.
65.
In any industrial relations matter or industrial relations proceeding to Which paragraph 64 applies, nisg̱a'a lisims government may make Representations concerning this agreement or the effect of the matter or Proceeding on nisg̱a'a culture.
66.
Any representations of nisg̱a'a lisims government in an industrial Relations matter or industrial relations proceeding before a board, Commission, or other tribunal under paragraph 65 will be in accordance With the rules in respect of the industrial relations matter or Proceeding and will not affect the ability of the board, commission, or Other tribunal to control its process.
67.
For greater certainty, paragraphs 64 to 66 do not affect federal or Provincial jurisdiction in respect of industrial relations, employment Standards, and occupational health and safety.
Human resource development 68.
At the request of any party, the parties will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreements for nisg̱a'a lisims government delivery and Administration of federal or provincial services or programs that are Intended to:
A. improve the employability or skill level of the labour force and Persons destined for the labour force; or B. create new employment or work experience opportunities.
Buildings, structures, and public works 69.
Subject to the roads and rights of way chapter, nisg̱a'a lisims Government may make laws in respect of the design, construction, Maintenance, repair, and demolition of buildings, structures, and public Works on nisg̱a'a lands.
70.
Subject to the roads and rights of way chapter, a nisg̱a'a village Government may make laws in respect of the matters referred to in Paragraph 69, to apply on the nisg̱a'a village lands of that nisg̱a'a Village.
71.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 69 or 70 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal Or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
Traffic and transportation 72.
A nisg̱a'a village government may make laws in respect of the regulation Of traffic and transportation on nisg̱a'a roads within its village, to The same extent as municipal governments have authority in respect of The regulation of traffic and transportation in municipalities in British columbia.
73.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the regulation of Traffic and transportation on nisg̱a'a roads, other than nisg̱a'a roads Within nisg̱a'a villages, to the same extent as municipal governments Have authority in respect of the regulation of traffic and Transportation in municipalities in british columbia.
74.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraphs 72 or 73 and a federal or provincial law of general application, the federal Or provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
Solemnization of marriages 75.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of solemnization of Marriages within british columbia, including prescribing conditions Under which individuals appointed by nisg̱a'a lisims government may Solemnize marriages.
76.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 75 and A federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
77.
Individuals appointed by nisg̱a'a lisims government to solemnize Marriages:
A. will be registered by british columbia as persons authorized to Solemnize marriages; and B. have the authority to solemnize marriages under british columbia law And nisg̱a'a law, and have all the associated rights, duties and Responsibilities of a marriage commissioner under the provincial Marriage act .
Social services 78.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the provision of Social services by nisg̱a'a government to nisg̱a'a citizens, other than The licensing and regulation of facility-based services off nisg̱a'a Lands.
79.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 78 and A federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
80.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government makes laws under paragraph 78, at the Request of any party, the parties will negotiate and attempt to reach Agreements in respect of exchange of information, avoidance of double Payments, and related matters.
81.
At the request of any party, the parties will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreements for administration and delivery by nisg̱a'a government Of federal and provincial social services and programs for all Individuals residing within nisg̱a'a lands. those agreements will include A requirement that nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not nisg̱a'a Citizens be treated equally in the provision of those social services And programs.
Health services 82.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of health services on Nisg̱a'a lands.
83.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 82 and A federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
84.
Notwithstanding paragraph 83, in the event of an inconsistency or Conflict between a nisg̱a'a law determining the organization and Structure for the delivery of health services on nisg̱a'a lands, and a Federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails to the extent of the Inconsistency or conflict.
85.
At the request of any party, the parties will negotiate and attempt to Reach agreements for nisg̱a'a lisims government delivery and Administration of federal and provincial health services and programs For all individuals residing within nisg̱a'a lands. those agreements will Include a requirement that nisg̱a'a citizens and individuals who are not Nisg̱a'a citizens be treated equally in the provision of those health Services and programs.
Aboriginal healers 86.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the authorization Or licensing of individuals who practice as aboriginal healers on Nisg̱a'a lands, but, this authority to make laws does not include the Authority to regulate products or substances that are regulated under Federal or provincial laws of general application.
87.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 86 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
88.
Any nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 86 will include measures in respect of Competence, ethics and quality of practice that are reasonably required To protect the public.
Child and family services 89.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of child and family Services on nisg̱a'a lands, provided that those laws include standards Comparable to provincial standards intended to ensure the safety and Well-being of children and families.
90.
Notwithstanding any laws made under paragraph 89 , If there is an emergency in which a child on nisg̱a'a lands is at risk, British columbia may act to protect the child and, in those Circumstances, unless british columbia and nisg̱a'a lisims government Otherwise agree, british columbia will refer the matter back to nisg̱a'a Lisims government after the emergency.
91.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 89 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
92.
At the request of nisg̱a'a lisims government, nisg̱a'a lisims government And british columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in Respect of child and family services for nisg̱a'a children who do not Reside on nisg̱a'a lands.
93.
Laws of general application in respect of reporting of child abuse apply On nisg̱a'a lands.
Child custody 94.
Nisg̱a'a government has standing in any judicial proceedings in which Custody of a nisg̱a'a child is in dispute, and the court will consider Any evidence and representations in respect of nisg̱a'a laws and customs In addition to any other matters it is required by law to consider.
95.
The participation of nisg̱a'a government in proceedings referred to in Paragraph 94 will be in accordance with the applicable rules of court And will not affect the court's ability to control its process.
Adoption
96.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of the adoption of Nisg̱a'a children, provided that those laws:
A. expressly provide that the best interests of the child be the Paramount consideration in determining whether an adoption will take Place; and B. require nisg̱a'a lisims government to provide british columbia and Canada with records of all adoptions occurring under nisg̱a'a laws.
97.
Nisg̱a'a law applies to the adoption of a nisg̱a'a child residing off Nisg̱a'a lands if:
A. the parent, parents, or guardian of the child consent to the Application of nisg̱a'a law to the adoption; or B. a court dispenses with the requirement for the consent referred to in Subparagraph (a), in accordance with the criteria that would be used by That court in an application to dispense with the requirement for a Parent or guardian's consent to an adoption.
98.
If the director of child protection, or a successor to that position, Becomes the guardian of a nisg̱a'a child, the director will:
A. provide notice to nisg̱a'a lisims government that the director is the Guardian of the nisg̱a'a child; B. provide notice to nisg̱a'a lisims government of any plan for the Nisg̱a'a child's care that could result in an application to adopt the Nisg̱a'a child; and C. consent to the application of nisg̱a'a law to the adoption of that Child, unless it is determined under provincial law that there are good Reasons to believe it is in the best interests of the child to withhold Consent.
99.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 96 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
Pre-school to grade 12 education 100.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of pre-school to Grade 12 education on nisg̱a'a lands of nisg̱a'a citizens, including the Teaching of nisg̱a'a language and culture, provided that those laws Include provisions for:
A. curriculum, examination, and other standards that permit transfers of Students between school systems at a similar level of achievement and Permit admission of students to the provincial post-secondary education Systems;
B. certification of teachers, other than for the teaching of nisg̱a'a Language and culture, by:
I. a nisg̱a'a institution, in accordance with standards comparable to Standards applicable to individuals who teach in public or independent Schools in british columbia, or Ii. a provincial body having the responsibility to certify individuals Who teach in public or independent schools in british columbia; and C. certification of teachers, for the teaching of nisg̱a'a language and Culture, by a nisg̱a'a institution, in accordance with standards Established under nisg̱a'a law.
101.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 100 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
102.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government makes laws under paragraph 100, at the Request of nisg̱a'a lisims government or british columbia, those parties Will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements concerning the provision Of kindergarten to grade 12 education to:
A. persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens residing within nisg̱a'a lands; And
B. nisg̱a'a citizens residing off nisg̱a'a lands.
Post-secondary education 103.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of post-secondary Education within nisg̱a'a lands, including:
A. the establishment of post-secondary institutions that have the Ability to grant degrees, diplomas or certificates; B. the determination of the curriculum for post-secondary institutions Established under nisg̱a'a law; C. the accreditation and certification of individuals who teach or Research nisg̱a'a language and culture; and D. the provision for and coordination of all adult education programs.
104.
Nisg̱a'a laws in respect of post-secondary education will include Standards comparable to provincial standards in respect of:
A. institutional organizational structure and accountability; B. admission standards and policies; C. instructors' qualifications and certification; D. curriculum standards sufficient to permit transfers of students Between provincial post-secondary institutions; and E. requirements for degrees, diplomas, or certificates.
105.
In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under Paragraph 103 and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails To the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
106.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may operate and provide post-secondary Education services outside nisg̱a'a lands in accordance with federal and Provincial laws.
107.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may prescribe the terms and conditions under Which nisg̱a'a post-secondary institutions may enter into arrangements With other institutions or british columbia to provide post-secondary Education outside nisg̱a'a lands.
Gambling and gaming 108.
British columbia will not licence or approve gambling or gaming Facilities on nisg̱a'a lands other than in accordance with any terms and Conditions established by nisg̱a'a government that are not inconsistent With federal and provincial laws of general application.
109.
Any change in federal or provincial legislation or policy that permits The involvement of aboriginal peoples in the regulation of gambling and Gaming will, with the consent of nisg̱a'a lisims government, apply to Nisg̱a'a government.
Intoxicants
110.
Nisg̱a'a government may make laws in respect of the prohibition of, and The terms and conditions for, the sale, exchange, possession, or Consumption of intoxicants on nisg̱a'a lands.
111.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 110 and A federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law prevails to the extent of the conflict.
112.
The nisg̱a'a nation, its agents and assignees have:
A. the exclusive right to sell liquor on nisg̱a'a lands in accordance With laws of general application; and B. the right to purchase liquor from the british columbia liquor Distribution branch, or its successors, in accordance with federal and Provincial laws of general application.
113.
British columbia will approve an application made by or with the consent Of nisg̱a'a lisims government for a license, permit, or other authority To sell liquor on nisg̱a'a lands, if the application meets provincial Regulatory requirements.
114.
British columbia will authorize persons designated by nisg̱a'a Government, in accordance with provincial laws of general application, To approve or deny applications for special occasion or temporary Permits to sell liquor.
Devolution of cultural property 115.
In paragraphs 116 to 119, "cultural property" Means:
A. ceremonial regalia and similar personal property associated with a Nisg̱a'a chief or clan; and B. other personal property that has cultural significance to the nisg̱a'a Nation.
116.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of devolution of the Cultural property of a nisg̱a'a citizen who dies intestate. in the event Of an inconsistency or conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under this Paragraph and a federal or provincial law, the nisg̱a'a law prevails to The extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
117.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government has standing in any judicial proceeding in Which:
A. the validity of the will of a nisg̱a'a citizen; or B. the devolution of the cultural property of a nisg̱a'a citizen Is at issue, including any proceedings under wills variation Legislation.
118.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may commence an action under wills variation Legislation in british columbia in respect of the will of a nisg̱a'a Citizen that provides for a devolution of cultural property.
119.
In a proceeding to which paragraph 116, 117 or 118 applies, the court Will consider, among other matters, any evidence or representations in Respect of nisg̱a'a laws and customs dealing with the devolution of Cultural property.
120.
The participation of nisg̱a'a lisims government in proceedings referred To in paragraphs 116 to 118 will be in accordance with the applicable Rules of court and will not affect the court's ability to control its Process.
Other areas of legislative jurisdiction 121.
In addition to the laws that nisg̱a'a government may make under this Chapter, nisg̱a'a government may make laws in respect of matters within Nisg̱a'a government jurisdiction as set out in, and in accordance with, This agreement.
Emergency preparedness 122.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government, with respect to nisg̱a'a lands, has the Rights, powers, duties, and obligations of a local authority under Federal and provincial legislation in respect of emergency preparedness And emergency measures.
123.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of its rights, Powers, duties, and obligations under paragraph 122. in the event of a Conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under this paragraph and a federal or Provincial law of general application, the federal or provincial law Prevails to the extent of the conflict.
124.
For greater certainty, nisg̱a'a lisims government may declare a state of Local emergency, and exercise the powers of a local authority in respect Of local emergencies in accordance with federal and provincial laws in Respect of emergency measures, but any declaration and any exercise of Those powers is subject to the authority of canada and british columbia Set out in those federal and provincial laws.
125.
Nothing in this agreement affects the authority of:
A. canada to declare a national emergency; or B. british columbia to declare a provincial emergency In accordance with federal and provincial laws of general application.
Other matters 126.
For greater certainty, the authority of nisg̱a'a government to make laws In respect of a subject matter as set out in this agreement includes the Authority to make laws and to do other things as may be necessarily Incidental to exercising its authority.
127.
Nisg̱a'a government may make laws and do other things that may be Necessary to enable each of the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, and Nisg̱a'a government to exercise its rights, or to carry out its Responsibilities, under this agreement.
128.
Nisg̱a'a government may provide for the imposition of penalties, Including fines, restitution, and imprisonment for the violation of Nisg̱a'a laws, within the limits set out for summary conviction offences In the Criminal code of canada Or the british columbia Offence act .
129.
Nisg̱a'a government may adopt federal or provincial laws in respect of Matters within nisg̱a'a government jurisdiction as set out in this Agreement.
Nisg̱a'a government liability Elected members of nisg̱a'a government 130.
No action for damages lies, or may be instituted against, an elected Member, or former elected member, of nisg̱a'a lisims government or of a Nisg̱a'a village government:
A. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by or on Behalf of the nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a lisims government, a nisg̱a'a Village, or a nisg̱a'a village government, while that person is, or was, An elected member; B. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended Performance, of a duty, or the exercise of a power, of the nisg̱a'a Nation, nisg̱a'a lisims government, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a Village government, while that person is, or was, an elected member; C. for anything said or done, or omitted to be said or done, by that Person in the performance, or intended performance, of the person's duty Or the exercise of the person's power; or D. for any alleged neglect or default in the performance, or intended Performance, of that person's duty or exercise of that person's power.
131.
Subparagraphs 130 (c) and (d) do not provide a defence if:
A. the person has, in relation to the conduct that is the subject matter Of the action, been guilty of dishonesty, gross negligence or malicious Or wilful misconduct; or B. the cause of action is libel or slander.
132.
Subparagraphs 130(c) and (d) do not absolve the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village from vicarious liability arising out of a tort committed By an elected member or former elected member of nisg̱a'a lisims Government, or the nisg̱a'a village government for which the nisg̱a'a Nation or the nisg̱a'a village would have been liable had those Subparagraphs not been in effect.
Nisg̱a'a nation and nisg̱a'a villages 133.
The nisg̱a'a nation, and each nisg̱a'a village, has the protections, Immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and Rights provided to a municipality under part 7 of the Municipal act .
134.
Subject to paragraph 1 of the access chapter, the nisg̱a'a nation and Each nisg̱a'a village has the protections, immunities, limitations in Respect of liability, remedies over, and rights provided to a Municipality under the Occupiers liability act , and, for greater certainty, has those protections, immunities, Limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and rights, in Respect of a road on nisg̱a'a lands used by the public, or by industrial Or resource users, if the nisg̱a'a nation or the nisg̱a'a village is the Occupier of that road.
Nisg̱a'a governments 135.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government, and each nisg̱a'a village government, has the Protections, immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies Over, and rights provided to the council of a municipality under part 7 Of the Municipal act .
Writ of execution against nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village 136.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 133 and 135, a writ of execution against the Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village must not be issued without leave of The supreme court of british columbia, which may:
A. permit the issue of the writ at a time and on conditions the court Considers proper; or B. refuse to permit the writ to be issued, or suspend action under the Writ, on terms and conditions the court thinks proper or expedient.
137.
In determining how it will proceed under paragraph 136, the court must Have regard to:
A. any reputed insolvency of the nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village; B. any security afforded to the person entitled to the judgment by the Registration of the judgment; C. the delivery of programs or services by the nisg̱a'a nation or the Nisg̱a'a village that are not provided by municipalities in british Columbia, and the funding of those programs or services; and D. the immunities from seizure of assets of the nisg̱a'a nation or the Nisg̱a'a village as set out in this agreement.
Nisg̱a'a public officers 138.
A nisg̱a'a public officer has the protections, immunities, limitations in Respect of liability, and rights provided to a municipal public officer Under part 7 of the Municipal act .
139.
Notwithstanding paragraph 138, except as may be otherwise provided under Federal or provincial law, a nisg̱a'a public officer does not have Protections, immunities, or limitations in respect of liability, in Respect of the provision of:
A. a service, if no persons delivering reasonably similar programs or Services under federal or provincial laws have protections, immunities, Limitations in respect of liability, or rights under federal or Provincial laws; or B. a program or service of the nisg̱a'a court, nisg̱a'a police board, or Nisg̱a'a police service, except as provided for in the administration of Justice chapter.
140.
The inspector of municipalities for british columbia will not Unreasonably withhold consent to the approval of the documents of Incorporation of a nisg̱a'a corporation if the principal function of the Nisg̱a'a corporation is to provide public programs or services reasonably Similar to those provided by federal, provincial, or municipal Governments, rather than to engage in commercial activities.
141.
British columbia will consult with nisg̱a'a lisims government in respect Of any change to provincial law that would affect the protections, Immunities, limitations in respect of liability, remedies over, and Rights referred to in paragraphs 133, 134, 135, or 138 to the extent and In the manner that it consults with municipalities.
Other provinces and territories 142.
Notwithstanding paragraph 4 of the general provisions chapter, this Agreement is not intended to bind provinces, other than british Columbia, or territories, on matters within their jurisdiction without Their consent.
Chapter 12
Administration of justice Police services General
1.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government decides to provide policing within nisg̱a'a Lands, it may do so by:
A. making laws for a nisg̱a'a police board and a nisg̱a'a police service Under paragraph 3; B. entering into agreements under which some or all of the policing will Be provided by the provincial police service or other police services; Or
C. both (a) and (b).
2.
The parties' objectives are that a nisg̱a'a police service:
A. be responsive to the needs and priorities of the nisg̱a'a nation; B. has the full range of police responsibilities and the authority to Enforce nisg̱a'a laws, the laws of british columbia, the criminal law, And other federal laws within nisg̱a'a lands; and C. contributes to the administration of justice, the maintenance of Social order, and public security.
Establishment of nisg̱a'a police board and nisg̱a'a police service 3.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government decides to establish a nisg̱a'a police Service, nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws to provide for the Establishment, organization, composition, indemnification, and roles and Responsibilities of a nisg̱a'a police board and a nisg̱a'a police service.
4.
Nisg̱a'a laws under paragraph 3 will include provisions:
A. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of:
I. minimum standards for certification of members of the nisg̱a'a police Service,
Ii. the swearing in of the members of the nisg̱a'a police service and the Nisg̱a'a police board, Iii. use of force by members of the nisg̱a'a police service, Iv. discipline and dismissal procedures for members of the nisg̱a'a Police service, and V. a public complaint procedure; and B. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of:
I. selection standards for the members of the nisg̱a'a police service, Ii. a code of conduct for members of the nisg̱a'a police service, Iii. appropriate mechanisms to ensure police independence, Accountability, and competence, and Iv. police operations.
Nisg̱a'a police board 5.
The nisg̱a'a police board will:
A. be independent and accountable in accordance with the standards that Apply generally to police boards in british columbia; B. provide general direction and training to the nisg̱a'a police service; C. determine priorities and goals of the nisg̱a'a police service; D. act as the employer of the members of the nisg̱a'a police service; E. appoint members of the nisg̱a'a police service, including a chief Constable who, under the direction of the nisg̱a'a police board, will Have general supervision and command over the nisg̱a'a police service, And will have the powers and authorities necessary to direct the members Of the nisg̱a'a police service; F. make rules respecting standards for the administration of the nisg̱a'a Police service, the prevention of neglect and abuse by its members, and The efficient discharge of their duties and functions; G. enforce the code of conduct established for the nisg̱a'a police Service and take any necessary disciplinary action; and H. enter into agreements from time to time for training, specialized Training, mutual support, assistance, and exchange of information and Expertise.
6.
The nisg̱a'a police board may exercise its functions when the lieutenant Governor in council has:
A. approved the nisg̱a'a police board's structure and membership Qualifications; and B. appointed the nisg̱a'a police board's members.
7.
An amendment to the nisg̱a'a police board's structure and membership Qualifications will take effect when approved by the lieutenant governor In council.
8.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government has made laws in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4, the lieutenant governor in council will:
A. approve the nisg̱a'a police board's structure and membership Qualifications;
B. approve any amendment to the structure or membership qualifications; And
C. appoint the members of the nisg̱a'a police board.
9.
If, after nisg̱a'a lisims government makes a law under paragraph 3, the Effect of a change in a provincial law is that the nisg̱a'a law ceases to Be:
A. in substantial conformity with provincial legislation in respect of The matters set out in subparagraph 4 (a); or B. compatible with provincial legislation in respect of the matters set Out in subparagraph 4 (b) The nisg̱a'a law will be deemed to incorporate the provincial law to the Extent necessary for substantial conformity or compatibility, as the Case may be, until the nisg̱a'a law is amended by nisg̱a'a lisims Government.
10.
The lieutenant governor in council will appoint to the nisg̱a'a police Board only individuals who have been recommended by nisg̱a'a lisims Government, and will not revoke the appointment of any nisg̱a'a police Board member, other than for cause, without the concurrence of nisg̱a'a Lisims government.
11.
When the lieutenant governor in council has approved the structure and Membership qualifications of the nisg̱a'a police board and appointed its Members, nisg̱a'a lisims government:
A. will provide policing sufficient to maintain law and order within Nisg̱a'a lands; B. will ensure that there are adequate physical resources for the proper Operation of police services within nisg̱a'a lands; and C. is jointly and severally liable for torts committed by members of the Nisg̱a'a police service or by other employees of the nisg̱a'a police board In the performance of their duties.
12.
The nisg̱a'a police board and its members are not liable for torts Committed by members of the nisg̱a'a police service, or by other Employees of the nisg̱a'a police board, in the performance of their Duties.
Nisg̱a'a police service 13.
A member of the nisg̱a'a police service:
A. has the powers, duties, privileges, liabilities and responsibilities Of a peace officer according to law; B. has the immunity from personal liability provided to police officers Under provincial law; and C. has authority throughout british columbia while carrying out the Powers, duties, privileges, and responsibilities that a police constable Or peace officer is entitled or required to exercise or carry out According to law.
14.
If a member of the nisg̱a'a police service performs duties outside of Nisg̱a'a lands, the member will, if possible, notify in advance the Municipal police service or the provincial police service of the area in Which the member performs duties, but in any case will promptly notify The municipal police service or provincial police service after Performing those duties.
15.
If a provincial or other police constable performs duties within nisg̱a'a Lands, the constable will, if possible, notify the nisg̱a'a police Service in advance, but in any case will notify the nisg̱a'a police Service promptly after performing those duties.
16.
The nisg̱a'a police service and other police forces in british columbia Will respond to requests from one another for temporary assistance in Accordance with federal and provincial law.
17.
British columbia will be jointly and severally liable with respect to Torts committed by a member of the nisg̱a'a police service in the Performance of the member's duties outside of nisg̱a'a lands.
18.
At the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, the parties will, to the extent of Their respective jurisdictions, negotiate and attempt to reach Agreements or protocols as may be necessary to enable nisg̱a'a lisims Government to carry out its policing responsibilities, including Agreements concerning:
A. the role and responsibility of the provincial police service in the Provision of police services within nisg̱a'a lands; B. mutual assistance and operational cooperation between the nisg̱a'a Police service and other police services; C. other matters required by this chapter; and D. any other matters relating to police services.
19.
If the minister is of the opinion that:
A. effective policing in accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere In british columbia is not being delivered within nisg̱a'a lands; or B. it is necessary or desirable to ensure effective delivery of policing In accordance with standards prevailing elsewhere in british columbia The minister, on terms approved by the lieutenant governor in council, May provide or reorganize policing within nisg̱a'a lands by appointing Individuals as constables, using the provincial police force to provide Policing, or by other means.
20.
The minister will not exercise authority under paragraph 19 if that Exercise discriminates against the nisg̱a'a police service or is aimed at Aboriginal police forces generally throughout british columbia.
21.
If practicable, before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the Minister will provide nisg̱a'a lisims government with:
A. written notice of the reasons or circumstances that form the basis of The minister's decision to provide or reorganize policing; B. reasonable opportunity to show cause why no action should be taken; And
C. reasonable opportunity to correct or modify any nisg̱a'a lisims Government acts or omissions that form the basis for the minister's Decision to provide or reorganize policing.
22.
If it is not practicable for the minister to comply with paragraph 21 Before exercising authority under paragraph 19, the minister, after Exercising that authority, will forthwith provide nisg̱a'a lisims Government with the notice and opportunities described in paragraph 21.
Community correction services 23.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may appoint one or more persons to provide Community correction services in respect of persons charged with, or Convicted of, offences under nisg̱a'a laws.
24.
At the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, the nisg̱a'a nation and british Columbia will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements to enable the Persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community correction Services within nisg̱a'a lands under provincial legislation.
25.
An agreement under paragraph 24 will contain provisions:
A. ensuring that community correction services are delivered in Accordance with generally accepted standards; B. confirming the authority of the official charged with the Responsibility for investigations, inspections, and standards under Provincial legislation; and C. for nisg̱a'a lisims government to provide community correction Services consistent with the needs and priorities of the nisg̱a'a nation.
26.
The nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia may enter into agreements to Enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide community Correction services outside nisg̱a'a lands under provincial legislation.
27.
Persons performing duties under agreements referred to in paragraphs 24 To 26 will comply with all provincial standards respecting professional, Personal, and other qualifications, except as modified by those Agreements.
28.
The nisg̱a'a nation and canada may enter into agreements:
A. to enable the persons appointed under paragraph 23 to provide Community correction services under federal legislation; and B. for the provision of services or programs for adult and young Offenders, including their care and custody.
29.
This agreement does not authorize nisg̱a'a government to establish places Of confinement, other than jails or lockups operated by the nisg̱a'a Police service, or as provided for under an agreement referred to in Paragraph 28.
Nisg̱a'a court General
30.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws to provide for the constitution, Maintenance, and organization of a nisg̱a'a court for the better Administration of nisg̱a'a laws.
31.
Until nisg̱a'a lisims government establishes a nisg̱a'a court that has Been approved by the lieutenant governor in council, prosecutions under Nisg̱a'a laws will be heard in the provincial court of british columbia.
32.
Any fines collected in respect of a penalty imposed on a person by the Provincial court of british columbia for a violation of a nisg̱a'a law Will be paid to nisg̱a'a lisims government on a similar basis as british Columbia makes payments to canada for fines that may be collected by British columbia for a violation of a federal law.
Establishment of nisg̱a'a court 33.
If nisg̱a'a lisims government decides to establish a nisg̱a'a court, Nisg̱a'a lisims government will make laws to:
A. ensure that the nisg̱a'a court and its judges comply with generally Recognized principles in respect of judicial fairness, independence, and Impartiality;
B. provide for means of supervision of judges of the nisg̱a'a court by The judicial council of british columbia or other similar means; and C. provide procedures for appeals from decisions of the nisg̱a'a court.
34.
The nisg̱a'a court may exercise its functions when the lieutenant Governor in council has approved the nisg̱a'a court's structure, Procedures, and method of selection of judges of the nisg̱a'a court.
35.
An amendment to the nisg̱a'a court's structure, procedures, or method of Selection of judges of the nisg̱a'a court will take effect when approved By the lieutenant governor in council.
36.
The lieutenant governor in council will approve the nisg̱a'a court's Structure, procedures, and the method of selection of the judges of the Nisg̱a'a court or any amendment to the structure, procedures, or method Of selection of judges of the nisg̱a'a court, if nisg̱a'a lisims Government has made laws in accordance with paragraph 33.
37.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government will appoint the judges of the nisg̱a'a court.
Nisg̱a'a court 38.
The nisg̱a'a court may exercise the powers and perform all the duties Conferred or imposed on it by or under nisg̱a'a laws, in respect of:
A. the review of administrative decisions of nisg̱a'a public Institutions;
B. the adjudication of prosecutions under nisg̱a'a laws; and C. the adjudication of disputes arising under nisg̱a'a laws between Nisg̱a'a citizens on nisg̱a'a lands that would be within the jurisdiction Of the provincial court of british columbia if the disputes arose under Provincial law.
39.
The nisg̱a'a court may adjudicate in respect of a dispute not referred to In paragraph 38 if the parties to that dispute, before commencing the Proceeding in the nisg̱a'a court, agree:
A. to accept the nisg̱a'a court's authority to decide the dispute and to Grant the remedies as between the parties sought in the proceeding; and B. that any order of the nisg̱a'a court will be final and binding, except For an appeal under paragraph 48.
40.
In addition to the matters set out in paragraphs 38 and 39, the nisg̱a'a Court may exercise jurisdiction that may be assigned to the nisg̱a'a Court by federal or provincial law.
41.
The nisg̱a'a court:
A. may impose penalties and other remedies under the laws of nisg̱a'a Government, british columbia, or canada in accordance with generally Accepted principles of sentencing; B. in disputes under subparagraph 38 (c), may make any order that could Be made by the provincial court of british columbia if the disputes Arose under provincial law; C. in disputes under paragraph 39, may grant the remedies sought by the Parties;
D. may apply traditional nisg̱a'a methods and values, such as using Nisg̱a'a elders to assist in adjudicating and sentencing, and emphasizing Restitution; and E. may issue process, such as summons, subpoenas, and warrants.
42.
Any process issued by the nisg̱a'a court has the same force and effect as Process issued by the provincial court of british columbia.
43.
In proceedings in which an accused person may receive a sentence of Imprisonment under nisg̱a'a law, the accused person may elect to be tried In the provincial court of british columbia.
44.
The nisg̱a'a court may not impose on a person who is not a nisg̱a'a Citizen a sanction or penalty different in nature from those generally Imposed by provincial or superior courts in canada, without the person's Consent.
Appeals
45.
An appeal from a final decision of the nisg̱a'a court in respect of Prosecutions under nisg̱a'a laws may be taken to the supreme court of British columbia on the same basis as summary conviction appeals under The
Criminal code of canada .
46.
An appeal from a final decision of the nisg̱a'a court in respect of a Review of an administrative decision under subparagraph 38 (a) may be Taken to the supreme court of british columbia on an error of law or Jurisdiction.
47.
An appeal from a decision of the nisg̱a'a court in respect of a matter Under subparagraph 38 (c) may be taken to the supreme court of british Columbia on the same basis as a similar decision could be appealed from The provincial court of british columbia.
48.
An appeal from a final decision of the nisg̱a'a court in respect of a Matter under paragraph 39 may be taken to the supreme court of british Columbia on an error of law or jurisdiction.
Enforcement
49.
An order of the nisg̱a'a court may be registered in the supreme court of British columbia and, once registered, will be enforceable as an order Of the supreme court of british columbia.
Other
50.
The lieutenant governor in council, upon recommendation of nisg̱a'a Lisims government and with the concurrence of the persons or bodies Required under provincial law, may appoint a judge of the nisg̱a'a court As a provincial court judge, justice of the peace, or referee.
51.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government is responsible for the prosecution of all Matters arising from nisg̱a'a laws, including appeals, and may carry out This responsibility by:
A. appointing or retaining individuals to conduct prosecutions and Appeals, in a manner consistent with the principle of prosecutorial Independence and consistent with the overall authority and role of the Attorney general in the administration of justice in british columbia; B. entering into agreements with canada or british columbia in respect Of the conduct of prosecutions and appeals; or C. both (a) and (b).
Review
52.
The parties will review this chapter no later than 10 years after the Effective date, and may amend this chapter if all parties agree.
Chapter 13
Indian act Transition
General
1.
The
Indian act Applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Estate of a nisg̱a'a citizen who:
A. died testate or intestate before the effective date; and B. at the time of death, was a member of the:
I. gitlakdamix indian band, Ii. gitwinksihlkw indian band, Iii. lakalzap indian band, or Iv. gingolx indian band.
2.
Before the effective date, canada will take reasonable steps to:
A. notify in writing all members of the nisg̱a'a indian bands that are Referred to in paragraph 1 who have deposited wills with the minister; And
B. provide information to persons who may be eligible for enrolment Under this agreement That their wills may not be valid after the effective date, and that Their wills should be reviewed to ensure validity under provincial laws.
3.
Section 51 of the Indian act Applies, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Property and estate of a nisg̱a'a citizen:
A. who was a "mentally incompetent indian" as defined in the Indian act Immediately before the effective date; and B. whose property and estate was under the authority of the minister Under section 51 of the Indian act Immediately before the effective date Until they are no longer a "mentally incompetent indian".
4.
Sections 52, 52.2, 52.3, 52.4 and 52.5 of the Indian act Apply, with any modifications that the circumstances require, to the Administration of any property to which a nisg̱a'a citizen who is an Infant child of an indian is entitled, if the minister was administering That property under the Indian act Immediately before the effective date, until the duties of the minister In respect of the administration have been discharged.
5.
Nisg̱a'a government will provide for participation in nisg̱a'a public Institutions by individuals who are ordinarily resident within nisg̱a'a Lands, who are not nisg̱a'a citizens, and who were members of the indian Bands referred to in paragraph 1 on the date immediately before the Effective date.
6.
The means of participation under paragraph 5 will be:
A. a reasonable opportunity to make representations to a nisg̱a'a public Institution;
B. the ability to vote for, or become a member of, a nisg̱a'a public Institution if the members of the nisg̱a'a public institution are Elected; or C. other comparable measures.
Continuation of Indian act By-laws 7.
The by-laws of the gitlakdamix, gitwinksihlkw, gingolx or lakalzap Indian bands that were in effect immediately before the effective date, Have effect for 30 days after the effective date on the nisg̱a'a village Lands of the nisg̱a'a village government that replaces the band council That made the by-law.
8.
The relationship between a by-law referred to in paragraph 7, and Federal and provincial laws, will be governed by the provisions of this Agreement governing the relationship between nisg̱a'a laws and federal And provincial laws in respect of the subject matter of the by-law.
9.
The nisg̱a'a village government replacing the band council that made a By-law referred to in paragraph 7, may repeal, but not amend, that By-law.
10.
Nothing in this agreement precludes a person from challenging the Validity of a by-law referred to in paragraph 7.
Status of bands and transfer of band assets 11.
Subject to this agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights, Titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of:
A. the gitlakdamix indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of new Aiyansh;
B. the gitwinksihlkw indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of Gitwinksihlkw;
C. the lakalzap indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of la X
Galt'sap; and D. the gingolx indian band vest in the nisg̱a'a village of gingolx And those indian bands cease to exist.
12.
On the effective date, nisg̱a'a lisims government will designate the Nisg̱a'a lands that were, before the effective date, indian reserves set Aside for the use and benefit of:
A. the gitlakdamix indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of new aiyansh; B. the gitwinksihlkw indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of Gitwinksihlkw;
C. the lakalzap indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of la X
Galt'sap; and D. the gingolx indian band, as nisg̱a'a village lands of gingolx.
Nisg̱a'a tribal council 13.
Subject to this agreement, on the effective date, all of the rights, Titles, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of the nisg̱a'a Tribal council vest in the nisg̱a'a nation, and the nisg̱a'a tribal Council ceases to exist.
Chapter 14
Provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts Capital transfer 1.
Subject to paragraph 4, canada and british columbia will each pay their Respective capital transfer amounts to the nisg̱a'a nation, in accordance With schedule a.
Negotiation loan repayment 2.
Subject to paragraph 3, the nisg̱a'a nation will pay loan repayment Amounts to canada in accordance with schedule b.
3.
The nisg̱a'a nation may pay to canada, in advance and on account, without Bonus or penalty, amounts that will be credited against the loan Repayment amounts in the manner described in schedule b.
4.
Canada may deduct from a capital transfer amount that it would otherwise Be required to pay to the nisg̱a'a nation on a scheduled date in Accordance with schedule a, any loan repayment amount, or portion Thereof, that the nisg̱a'a nation would otherwise be required to pay to Canada in accordance with schedule b on that scheduled date, except to The extent that the loan repayment amount has been prepaid in accordance With paragraph 3.
Schedule a — provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts Amounts
Date
Canada
Will pay British columbia Will pay On the effective date On the first anniversary On the second anniversary On the third anniversary On the fourth anniversary On the fifth anniversary On the sixth anniversary On the seventh anniversary On the eighth anniversary On the ninth anniversary On the 10 Th
Anniversary
On the 11 Th
Anniversary
On the 12 Th
Anniversary
On the 13 Th
Anniversary
On the 14 Th
Anniversary
In this schedule "anniversary" Means an anniversary of the effective date.
Note 1 and note 2 to this schedule will be deleted, and will no longer Form part of this agreement, when this schedule is completed in Accordance with those notes and the effective date occurs.
Note 1 to schedule a The parties will calculate on the calculation date the amounts to be Shown in the provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts in Accordance with this note.
The canada and british columbia capital transfer amounts for the Effective date will sum to $22.0 million.
The canada and british columbia capital transfer amounts for the first Anniversary will sum to $22.0 million.
The canada and british columbia capital transfer amounts will sum to $13.0 million for each of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and Seventh anniversaries.
The capital transfer amounts for the eighth to fourteenth anniversaries, Inclusive, will be calculated on the calculation date as follows:
All seven of the canada capital transfer amounts will be equal amounts And each will be calculated so that the net present value, calculated on The calculation date, of all of the canada capital transfer amounts in The provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts, discounted back to The beginning of the provisional schedule of capital transfer amounts, And using the calculation rate as the discount rate, will equal $175,554,200 multiplied by m and divided by l; and All seven of the british columbia capital transfer amounts will be equal Amounts and each will be calculated so that the net present value, Calculated on the calculation date, of all of the british columbia Capital transfer amounts in the provisional schedule of capital transfer Amounts, discounted back to the beginning of the provisional schedule of Capital transfer amounts, and using the calculation rate as the discount Rate, will equal $14,445,800 multiplied by m and divided by l Where l, m, the calculation date and the calculation rate are defined in Note 2 to this schedule.
On each scheduled date, the canada capital transfer amount will be Approximately 92.4 per cent of the sum of the canada capital transfer Amount and the british columbia capital transfer amount, and the british Columbia capital transfer amount will be approximately 7.6 per cent of The same sum.
Note 2 to schedule a The parties will calculate on the revision date the amounts to be shown In the final version of this schedule in accordance with this note and Will delete the word "provisional" from the title of this schedule.
In this note "signing of the nisg̱a'a final agreement" Means signing by the parties after the ratification by the nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the ratification chapter.
If, within fifteen months after the signing of the nisg̱a'a final Agreement, the parliament of canada has not enacted settlement Legislation to give effect to the nisg̱a'a final agreement, part b of This note will apply. otherwise, part a will apply. in either event, the Following will apply:
"*" means multiplied by, and "/" means divided by; Cr is the calculation rate; L is the value of fddipi for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by Statistics canada at the same time as the value used in m is published; M is the first published value of fddipi for the latest calendar quarter For which statistics canada has published a fddipi before the Calculation date; Fddipi is the final domestic demand implicit price index for canada, Series d15613, published regularly by statistics canada in matrix 6544:
Implicit price indexes, gross domestic product; The calculation date is a date 14 days before the signing of the nisg̱a'a Final agreement, or another date if the parties agree, and is the same Calculation date as that referred to in schedule b; and The revision date is a date 14 days before the effective date, or Another date if the parties agree, and is the same revision date as that Referred to in schedule b.
Part a of note 2 On the revision date, the final schedule of capital transfer amounts Will be prepared by amending each amount in this provisional schedule as Follows:
Amount in provisional schedule * (l/m) * (n/o) Where:
N is the first published value of fddipi for the latest calendar quarter For which statistics canada has published a fddipi before the revision Date, and O is the value of fddipi for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by Statistics canada at the same time as the value used in n is published.
Part b of note 2 On the revision date, the final schedule of capital transfer amounts Will be prepared by amending each amount in the provisional schedule as Follows:
Amount in provisional schedule * (l/m) * (p/q) * (1 + cr) Y
* (1 + cr * d/365) Where:
P is the first published value of fddipi for the latest calendar quarter For which statistics canada has published a fddipi before the transition Date,
Q is the value of fddipi for the fourth quarter of 1995 published by Statistics canada at the same time as the value used in p is published, Y is the number of complete years between the transition date and the Effective date, D is the number of days remaining in the period between the transition Date and the effective date, after deducting the complete years in that Period that have been taken into account in the determination of y, The transition date is the date that is 15 months after the date of the Signing of the nisg̱a'a final agreement, and The calculation rate is x.xxx per cent per year.
[the rate to be inserted in the definition of calculation rate is the Most recently released rate of interest, as of the calculation date, That the minister of finance for canada has approved on loans from the Consolidated revenue fund amortized over 14 years, less 0.125 per cent (specified to three decimal places of a per cent).] This paragraph is for information purposes and not for calculation Purposes. the approximate effects of applying part b are to limit the Period for which the capital transfer is adjusted by fddipi to the Period that ends on the date that is 15 months after the signing of the Nisg̱a'a final agreement, and to lengthen the period for which the Capital transfer is adjusted by the calculation rate to the period Between the date that is 15 months after the signing of the nisg̱a'a Final agreement and the effective date.
Schedule b — loan repayment amounts On the effective date 0 On the first anniversary 0 On the second anniversary $2,000,000 On the third anniversary $2,000,000 On the fourth anniversary $2,000,000 On the fifth anniversary $2,000,000 On the sixth anniversary $2,000,000 On the seventh anniversary $2,000,000 On the eighth anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the ninth anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the 10th anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the 11th anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the 12th anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the 13th anniversary To be calculated on revision date On the 14th anniversary To be calculated on revision date In this schedule "anniversary" Means an anniversary of the effective date.
Prepayments
In addition to any required loan repayment amount, at each anniversary, And up to three times during the first nine months after an anniversary, The nisg̱a'a nation may make loan prepayments to canada. all prepayments Will be applied to the outstanding scheduled loan repayment amount(s) in Consecutive order from the effective date.
The "r" anniversary at which a prepayment is to be applied is the Earliest anniversary for which a scheduled loan repayment amount, or a Portion thereof, remains outstanding. any loan prepayment applied to an Outstanding loan repayment amount, or to a portion thereof, will be Credited to the nisg̱a'a nation at its future value, as of the "r" Anniversary, determined in accordance with the following formula:
Future value = prepayment * (1 + calculation rate) Zr
* (1 + calculation rate * e/365) Where:
"*" means multiplied by, and "/" means divided by, Zr is the number of complete years between the date of the prepayment And the "r" anniversary, E is one plus the number of days between the date of the prepayment and The "r" anniversary, once the number of complete years referred to in "zr" above has been deducted, and The calculation rate is x.xxx per cent per year.
[the rate to be inserted in the definition of the calculation rate is The most recently released rate of interest, as of the calculation date, That the minister of finance for canada has approved on loans from the Consolidated revenue fund amortized over 14 years, less 0.125 per cent (specified to three decimal places of a per cent). the calculation date Is a date 14 days before the signing of the nisg̱a'a final agreement, or Another date if the parties agree, and is the same calculation date as That referred to in schedule a. in this paragraph "signing of the nisg̱a'a final agreement" Means signing by the parties after the ratification by the nisg̱a'a Nation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the ratification chapter. this Bracketed paragraph will be deleted on the date that note 1 to this Schedule is deleted.] If the future value of the prepayment exceeds the outstanding amount of The loan repayment amount scheduled for the "r" anniversary, the excess Will be deemed to be a prepayment made on the "r" anniversary so that The future value of the excess will be applied as of the next "r" Anniversary in a manner analogous to that described in this paragraph.
On receipt of a loan prepayment, canada will issue a letter to the Nisg̱a'a nation setting out the amount of the prepayment received and the Manner in which it will be applied in accordance with this "prepayments" Section of this schedule.
Illustrative example:
Hypothetical calculation rate = 10.000% Annual equal payments of $100.00 Prepayment = $100, made in year four at day 182 Fifth anniversary payment has been previously prepaid Amount owing at fifth anniversary = $0.00 Amount owing at sixth anniversary = $100.00 Therefore:
Zr = 1
E = 184
R = 6
Future value of prepayment made in year four at day 182 = $100.00 * (1+0.10000) 1 * (1 + 0.10000 * 184/365) = $115.55 Amount prepaid for sixth anniversary = $100.00 Amount in excess for sixth anniversary = $115.55 – $100.00 = $15.55 Future value of $15.55 as of the seventh anniversary = $15.55 * (1 + 0.10000) 1 * (1 + 0.10000 * 0/365) = $17.11 Amount prepaid for seventh anniversary = $17.11 The prepayment made at day 182 in year four has eliminated the loan Repayment amount for the sixth anniversary and reduced the loan Repayment amount for the seventh anniversary from $100.00 to $82.89.
Note 1 to this schedule will be deleted, and will no longer form part of This agreement, when this schedule is completed in accordance with the Note and the effective date occurs.
Note 1 to schedule b Canada will calculate in accordance with this note the actual loan Repayment amounts for the eighth to 14th anniversaries inclusive to be Inserted on the revision date in the final version of this schedule. in The final version of this schedule the loan repayment amounts for the Effective date, and for the first to seventh anniversaries inclusive, Will remain as set out in the initial version of this schedule.
The revision date is a date 14 days before the effective date, or Another date if the parties agree, and is the same revision date as that Referred to in schedule a.
On the revision date, canada will calculate the amounts in the final Schedule of loan repayment amounts for the eighth to 14 Th
Anniversaries, inclusive. these seven amounts will be equal amounts and Each will be such that the net present value of all of the amounts in The final schedule of loan repayment amounts, discounted back to the Effective date using the calculation rate (as described in the "prepayment" section of this schedule b) as the discount rate, will Equal the loan amount.
In this schedule, the loan amount means the aggregate outstanding Balance, at the effective date, of all negotiation and support loans, Including principal and accrued interest, made by canada to the nisg̱a'a Tribal council.
Canada will calculate the loan amount, based on a document that canada And the nisg̱a'a tribal council will produce jointly before the Initialling of the nisg̱a'a final agreement. that document will set out The amounts of all loans from canada to the nisg̱a'a tribal council, Interest accrued to date and the relevant terms and conditions of those Loans.
The document referred to in the previous paragraph will be available From either the nisg̱a'a tribal council or the federal treaty negotiation Office of the department of indian affairs and northern development, Upon request, as of the date of initialling of the nisg̱a'a final Agreement, to persons eligible to be enrolled as participants under that Agreement.
For information purposes (and not for calculation purposes), the Approximate amount of outstanding loans, including principal and accrued Interest, as of the date that settlement legislation is introduced in Parliament, will be inserted in the following blank space before that Date: ____________.
Chapter 15
Fiscal relations Definitions
1.
In this chapter and in the taxation chapter:
"capital transfer" Means an amount paid by canada or british columbia under the capital Transfer and negotiation loan repayment chapter; "income tax act" Means the Income tax act , s.c. 1985 (5th supp.) c. 1; "income tax act (british columbia)" Means the Income tax act , rsbc 1996, c. 215; "nisg̱a'a capital" Means all land, cash, and other assets transferred to, or recognized as Owned by, the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village under this agreement, Except land added to nisg̱a'a lands under paragraph 9 or 11 of the lands Chapter;
"nisg̱a'a capital finance authority" Means an authority for the benefit of the nisg̱a'a nation and all nisg̱a'a Villages, established in accordance with a fiscal financing agreement, To enable the financing of capital projects of the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village on nisg̱a'a lands, and operated in accordance with the Most recent fiscal financing agreement; "nisg̱a'a exempt corporation" Means a corporation, other than a nisg̱a'a government corporation, in Which the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village has a direct or indirect Interest as a shareholder, that is exempt from tax on its taxable income Under laws of canada or british columbia; "nisg̱a'a government corporation" Means any corporation, commission or association, all of the shares (except directors' qualifying shares) or capital of which belong to the Nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or any Combination thereof, and for this purpose where, at any time, any shares Or capital of a corporation, commission or association belong, or are Deemed by this paragraph to belong, to another corporation, a Partnership, or a trust that is not a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, ("intermediary"), those shares or that capital will be deemed to belong To each shareholder, partner or beneficiary, as the case may be, of the Intermediary, proportionate to the relative fair market values of their Respective interests in that intermediary; "nisg̱a'a settlement trust" Means any trust having the following characteristics:
A. the trust is resident in canada, B. the beneficiaries of the trust are limited to the nisg̱a'a nation, any Nisg̱a'a village, another nisg̱a'a settlement trust, all nisg̱a'a citizens, All nisg̱a'a citizens in any nisg̱a'a village, or any registered charity Or non-profit organization, within the meaning of the Income tax act , that in the reasonable opinion of the trustees directly or indirectly Benefits one or more nisg̱a'a citizens, or any combination of those Entities and persons, C. the investment of the funds of the trust is restricted to:
I. investment instruments that are described as qualified investments For a trust governed by a registered retirement savings plan within the Meaning of section 146 of the Income tax act Or in any other investments that may be agreed upon from time to time by The nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia, Ii. loans to a nisg̱a'a citizen, the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, Or a nisg̱a'a government corporation at a rate of interest equal to the Rate prescribed under regulation 4301(c) of the Income tax act In effect at the time the loan was made or last renewed, Iii. investments in a share of a nisg̱a'a government corporation where The average annual rate of dividends on that share over any five year Period cannot exceed the rate prescribed under regulation 4301 (c) of The
Income tax act At the beginning of that period, and if the amount receivable on Redemption of the share or on liquidation of the corporation is limited To the amount of the consideration for which the share was originally Issued, and Iv. low interest or interest free loans to a nisg̱a'a citizen, or a Partnership or trust in which nisg̱a'a citizens hold all the interests as Partners or beneficiaries, where the purpose of the loan is to assist The borrower to:
A. acquire, construct or renovate a residential property for their own Habitation in british columbia, B. attend courses to further their own education, technical or Vocational skills, or attend courses in native studies, culture or Language programs, or C. acquire funding for purposes of carrying on a business on nisg̱a'a Lands or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands, where the borrower is unable to Borrow from ordinary commercial lenders at normal commercial rates, Where, at the time the loan was made, Bona fide Arrangements were made for repayment of the loan within a reasonable Period of time, D. the trust is not permitted to carry on a business as a proprietor or Member of a partnership, or acquire any beneficial interest in a trust Engaged in a business where one or more of the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a Village, a nisg̱a'a government corporation, a nisg̱a'a settlement trust or A nisg̱a'a citizen, either alone or in combination, holds more than 10% Of all of the beneficial interests in the trust, E. the trust does not borrow money except as required to finance the Acquisition of qualified investments or to carry out its operations, F. contributions to the trust are limited to contributions received from The nisg̱a'a nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the Capital transfer and negotiation loan repayment chapter or amounts Received from another nisg̱a'a settlement trust where substantially all Of the funds of that contributing trust reasonably can be considered to Have been derived from a contribution to a nisg̱a'a settlement trust by The nisg̱a'a nation of capital transfer payments received by it under the Financial transfers chapter and income and gains derived therefrom, and G. the trust is not permitted to make any distributions other than to One or more beneficiaries in accordance with the trust, or to another Nisg̱a'a settlement trust; and "person" Includes an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a trust, an Unincorporated association or other entity or government or any agency Or political subdivision thereof, and their heirs, executors, Administrators and other legal representatives.
Interpretation
2.
If a principle in paragraph 16, or in an own source revenue agreement, Applies in respect of a nisg̱a'a exempt corporation, the own source Revenue capacity that results:
A. will be reduced proportionately to fully account for the direct or Indirect ownership interests in the corporation of persons other than The nisg̱a'a nation, the nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a government Corporations, and nisg̱a'a settlement trusts; and B. if the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, or any combination of Them, cannot cause a distribution by the corporation, will be taken into Account only at the time, and to the extent, that a distribution is made To the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, or a nisg̱a'a government Corporation.
Fiscal financing agreements 3.
Every five years, or at other intervals if the parties agree, the Parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on a fiscal Financing agreement by which funding will be provided to the nisg̱a'a Nation to enable the provision of agreed-upon public programs and Services to nisg̱a'a citizens and, where applicable, non-nisg̱a'a Occupants of nisg̱a'a lands, at levels reasonably comparable to those Generally prevailing in northwest british columbia.
4.
A fiscal financing agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land Claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal Or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
5.
The recognition of the legislative authority of nisg̱a'a lisims Government and nisg̱a'a village governments does not create or imply any Funding or financial obligation for canada, british columbia, the Nisg̱a'a nation, or a nisg̱a'a village.
6.
Nisg̱a'a citizens are eligible to participate in programs established by Canada or british columbia and to receive public services from canada or British columbia, in accordance with general criteria established for Those programs or services from time to time, to the extent that the Nisg̱a'a nation has not assumed responsibility for those programs or Public services under a fiscal financing agreement.
7.
The parties will negotiate and attempt to reach agreements in respect of Grants, between them, In lieu Of property taxes.
8.
The funding for the nisg̱a'a nation and nisg̱a'a villages is a shared Responsibility of the parties and it is the shared objective of the Parties that, where feasible, the reliance of the nisg̱a'a nation and Nisg̱a'a villages on transfers will be reduced over time.
9.
In negotiating fiscal financing agreements, the parties will take into Account, among other things:
A. costs necessary to establish and operate nisg̱a'a lisims government And nisg̱a'a village governments, and agreed-upon nisg̱a'a public Institutions and the nisg̱a'a court; B. efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of public programs and Services;
C. location and accessibility of nisg̱a'a lands; D. population and demographic characteristics of persons receiving Agreed-upon public programs and services; E. other funding or support in respect of agreed-upon public programs or Services provided to the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village by canada Or british columbia; F. the level, type and condition of agreed-upon public works and Utilities within nisg̱a'a lands; G. major maintenance and replacement of assets identified in and funded According to schedule c to the first fiscal financing agreement, or Other agreed-upon community or health capital assets; H. necessary training requirements for agreed-upon public programs and Services;
I. the desirability of reasonably stable, predictable and flexible Funding arrangements; J. the jurisdictions, authorities and obligations of nisg̱a'a lisims Government and the nisg̱a'a village governments; K. the authorities and obligations of, and the public programs and Services for which responsibility is assumed or is to be assumed by, the Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village; L. prevailing fiscal policies of canada and british columbia; M. nisg̱a'a cultural values; and N. nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity as determined under an own Source revenue agreement or, in the absence of an own source revenue Agreement, under this chapter.
10.
The parties will address the following, among other things, in fiscal Financing agreements:
A. procedures for negotiating the next fiscal financing agreement; B. procedures for assuming or transferring responsibility for the Provision of agreed -upon programs and services; C. procedures for funding, and assuming or transferring responsibility For, the provision of additional programs and services during the term Of the fiscal financing agreement; D. costs of emergencies and of fire suppression; E. payment procedures; F. dispute resolution; and G. information exchange.
11.
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the first fiscal financing agreement Will come into effect on the effective date.
12.
If the parties do not reach a further fiscal financing agreement by the Expiry date of a fiscal financing agreement, the fiscal financing Agreement will continue in effect for two years from its original expiry Date, or for any other period that the parties may agree while they Attempt to reach a further fiscal financing agreement.
13.
Any amounts required for the purposes of a fiscal financing agreement Will be paid out of appropriations as may be made by the parliament of Canada or the legislature of british columbia for those purposes.
Own source revenue agreements 14.
Every 10 years, or at other intervals if the parties agree, the parties Will negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on an own source revenue Agreement under which nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity, and The manner and extent to which that capacity will be taken into account Under fiscal financing agreements, will be determined.
15.
An own source revenue agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land Claims agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal Or treaty rights, within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
16.
In determining nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity, the parties Will apply the following principles:
A. the own source revenue capacity in respect of any source will not be Taken into account so as to unreasonably reduce the incentive for the Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village to raise revenues from that source Or to occupy any tax room that other canadian governments may have made Available by agreement with the nisg̱a'a nation; B. there should be a fair basis of comparison between the own source Revenue capacity in respect of a nisg̱a'a settlement trust and the Additional tax revenue that canadian governments would have received if The income and capital gains, net of losses, of the trust were earned or Realized in equal shares by all nisg̱a'a citizens, instead of by the Trust, and if all nisg̱a'a citizens were resident in british columbia; C. the own source revenue capacity in respect of each tax will not Exceed the sum of:
I. the value of any tax room made available in respect of the tax by Canada or british columbia under an agreement referred to in Subparagraph 3 (b) of the taxation chapter, or other agreement with the Nisg̱a'a nation, and Ii. where the tax is similar to a tax generally imposed by local Authorities in british columbia:
A. if the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village is taxing only nisg̱a'a Citizens, the amount by which the revenues derived by the nisg̱a'a nation Or the nisg̱a'a village from the tax exceed the amount, if any, included In subparagraph 16 (c) (i), or B. if there is a delegated taxation authority in respect of the tax, Under an agreement referred to in subparagraph 3 (a) of the taxation Chapter, the amount by which the tax capacity in respect of all persons Over which nisg̱a'a government has taxation power or authority exceeds The amount included in subparagraph 16 (c) (i), and for this purpose, Tax capacity will be determined on a fair and reasonable basis, taking Into account the circumstances in nisg̱a'a communities and in similar Communities in northwest british columbia; D. the own source revenue capacity in respect of commercial and Investment activities, including exploitation of a natural resource, of The nisg̱a'a nation, the nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a government Corporations, nisg̱a'a exempt corporations, and corporations without Share capital established and operated for the benefit of the nisg̱a'a Nation or a nisg̱a'a village, or any combination of them, will be Reasonably comparable to, and not exceed, the additional revenues that Other canadian governments would have from taxation of those entities If:
I. they were canadian private enterprises subject to taxation under Federal and provincial laws of general application, Ii. the commercial and investment activities were their only activities, Iii. their only properties were properties related to the activities, And
Iv. those properties were owned by them as private persons and not as Governments; and E. to the extent that a base is used in the calculation of a tax paid or Payable by the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a government Corporation, a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, or a nisg̱a'a exempt Corporation, it will not be used as a base in the calculation of nisg̱a'a Nation own source revenue capacity in place of that tax.
17.
Nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity in respect of any source not Referred to in paragraph 16 will be taken into account in a manner that Does not unreasonably reduce the incentive for the nisg̱a'a nation or a Nisg̱a'a village to raise revenues from that source.
18.
There is no nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity in respect of:
A. proceeds from the sale of nisg̱a'a lands or nisg̱a'a fee simple lands; B. a capital transfer; C. the capital of a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to the extent that A capital gain results in own source revenue capacity in accordance with The principle in subparagraph 16 (b); D. a distribution of capital from a nisg̱a'a settlement trust, except to The extent that a distribution to a nisg̱a'a citizen results in a tax That is included in the determination of own source revenue capacity in Accordance with the principle in subparagraph 16 (c); E. the nisg̱a'a capital finance authority, including any income, gains or Property of the authority, and any distribution by the authority, except To the extent that a distribution is included as own source revenue Capacity in respect of a commercial activity of the recipient of the Distribution; and F. a transfer by a corporation to the nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a Village, to the extent that the transfer represents a distribution out Of income that has already been taken into account in determining Nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity.
19.
Nisg̱a'a nation own source revenue capacity will be phased in over a 12 Year period as provided in the own source revenue agreement.
20.
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the first own source revenue Agreement will come into effect on the effective date.
Own source revenue administration 21.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws that impose an obligation on the Nisg̱a'a nation, nisg̱a'a villages, nisg̱a'a settlement trusts, or nisg̱a'a Government corporations, in respect of the determination, adjustment, Payment, or collection of amounts, to enable the nisg̱a'a nation to Recover from those entities amounts in respect of nisg̱a'a nation own Source revenue capacity.
22.
In the event of a conflict between a nisg̱a'a law under paragraph 21 and A federal or provincial law of general application, the federal or Provincial law will prevail to the extent of the conflict.
Chapter 16
Taxation
Direct taxation 1.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government may make laws in respect of direct taxation of Nisg̱a'a citizens on nisg̱a'a lands in order to raise revenue for nisg̱a'a Nation or nisg̱a'a village purposes.
2.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government powers provided for in paragraph 1 will not Limit the powers of canada or british columbia to impose or levy tax or Make laws in respect of taxation.
Other taxation and tax administration agreements 3.
From time to time canada and british columbia, together or separately, May negotiate with the nisg̱a'a nation, and attempt to reach agreement On:
A. the extent, if any, to which canada or british columbia will provide To nisg̱a'a lisims government or a nisg̱a'a village government direct Taxation authority over persons other than nisg̱a'a citizens, on nisg̱a'a Lands; and B. the coordination of nisg̱a'a lisims government or nisg̱a'a village Government taxation, of any person, with existing federal or provincial Tax systems.
4.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and nisg̱a'a village governments may make laws In respect of the implementation of any taxation agreement entered into With canada or british columbia.
Section 87 exemption 5.
Subject to paragraph 6, section 87 of the Indian act Applies to nisg̱a'a citizens only to the extent that an indian other than A nisg̱a'a citizen, or the property of that indian, would be exempt from Taxation in similar circumstances by reason of the applicability of Section 87 of the Indian act .
6.
Section 87 of the Indian act Will have no application to nisg̱a'a citizens:
A. in respect of transaction taxes, only as of the first day of the First month that starts after the eighth anniversary of the effective Date; and B. in respect of all other taxes, only as of the first day of the first Calendar year that starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the Effective date.
Remission orders 7.
Subject to paragraphs 8 and 9, as of the effective date, canada and British columbia will each grant a remission of, respectively, federal And provincial tax imposed or levied in respect of:
A. the estate or interest of an indian in lands described in Subparagraph 2 (b) of the lands chapter that are within nisg̱a'a lands; B. the personal property of an indian situated on lands described in Subparagraph 2 (b) of the lands chapter that are within nisg̱a'a lands; And
C. an indian's ownership, occupation, possession or use of any property Referred to in subparagraph (a) or (b).
8.
A remission of tax under paragraph 7 will be granted only where the Property referred to in subparagraph 7 (a) or (b), or the Indian in respect of the ownership, occupation, possession or use of the Property referred to in subparagraph 7 (a) or (b) would, But for this agreement, be exempt from taxation by reason of the Applicability of section 87 of the Indian act .
9.
The orders authorizing the remissions of tax referred to in paragraph 7 Will cease to be effective:
A. in respect of transaction taxes, as of the first day of the first Month that starts after the eighth anniversary of the effective date; And
B. in respect of all other taxes, as of the first day of the first Calendar year that starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the Effective date.
Valuation time 10.
In paragraphs 11 and 12:
A.
"eligible individual" Means an indian who, at the valuation time, holds an eligible interest; B.
"eligible interest" Means any estate or interest in specified lands or in personal property Situated on specified lands; C.
"specified lands" In respect of an indian means:
I. lands described in subparagraph 2 (b) of the lands chapter that are Within nisg̱a'a lands, and Ii. if the indian is a nisg̱a'a citizen, a reserve as defined in the Indian act ; and D.
"valuation time" Means the beginning of the first day of the first calendar year that Starts on or after the twelfth anniversary of the effective date.
11.
For the purposes of the Income tax act And the Income tax act (british columbia), if an eligible individual elects as described in Paragraph 12 to have this paragraph apply:
A. the individual is deemed to have disposed of each of the individual's Eligible interests, at the time that is immediately before the time that Is immediately before the valuation time, for an amount equal to its Fair market value at that time, and to have reacquired the eligible Interest at the valuation time at a cost equal to that fair market Value;
B. for greater certainty, it is understood that the deemed disposition And reacquisition described in subparagraph (a) apply to all eligible Interests owned by the eligible individual at the valuation time; and C. for the purposes of applying sections 37, 65 to 66.4, 111, Subsections 127 (5) to 127 (26) and section 127.3 of the Income tax act , the individual will be deemed not to have owned an eligible interest Referred to in subparagraph (a) at any time before the time it was Deemed to have been reacquired by the individual under that Subparagraph.
12.
Paragraphs 10 and 11 apply to any eligible individual who so elects in Writing in the individual's return of income under part i of the Income tax act For the year that starts at the valuation time.
Nisg̱a'a lands 13.
Neither the nisg̱a'a nation nor any nisg̱a'a village is subject to capital Taxation, including real property taxes and taxes on capital or wealth, In respect of the estate or interest of either the nisg̱a'a nation or any Nisg̱a'a village in nisg̱a'a lands on which there are no improvements or On which there is a designated improvement.
14.
In paragraph 13, "designated improvement" Means:
A. a residence of a nisg̱a'a citizen; B. an improvement, all or substantially all of which is used for a Public purpose or a purpose ancillary or incidental to the public Purpose, including:
I. a public governance or administration building, public meeting Building, public hall, public school or other public educational Institution, teacherage, public library, public health facility, public Care facility, public seniors home, public museum, place of public Worship, manse, fire hall, police facility, court, correction facility, Public recreation facility, public park, or an improvement used for Nisg̱a'a cultural or spiritual purposes, Ii. works of public convenience constructed or operated for the benefit Of nisg̱a'a citizens, occupiers of nisg̱a'a lands or persons visiting or In transit through nisg̱a'a lands, including public utility works, public Works used to treat or deliver water or as part of a public sewer System, public roads, public bridges, public drainage ditches, traffic Signals, street lights, public sidewalks, and public parking lots, or Iii. similar improvements; C. an improvement that is used primarily for the management, protection Or enhancement of a natural resource, including a forestry, fishery or Wildlife resource, other than an improvement that is used primarily in Harvesting or processing a natural resource for profit; and D. forest resources and forest roads.
15.
In paragraph 14 (b), "public purpose" does not include the provision of Property or services primarily for the purpose of profit.
16.
Paragraph 13 does not affect the taxation of a person, other than the Nisg̱a'a nation or a nisg̱a'a village, in respect of an estate or interest In nisg̱a'a lands, or exempt from taxation a disposition of capital by The nisg̱a'a nation or any nisg̱a'a village.
17.
If, within 20 years after the effective date, canada or british columbia Enacts legislation giving effect to another land claims agreement Applicable in northwest british columbia that:
A. provides that all of the lands that were set apart as reserves of an Indian band whose members were represented by a party to the agreement Cease to be reserves; and B. provides a tax exemption, not provided in paragraph 13, in respect of An estate or interest in settlement lands Canada and british columbia, upon request of nisg̱a'a nation, will Negotiate and attempt to reach agreement on the provision of a similar Tax exemption for the nisg̱a'a nation and nisg̱a'a villages.
Nisg̱a'a capital 18.
A transfer, or recognition of ownership, under this agreement, of Nisg̱a'a capital is not taxable.
19.
For the purposes of paragraph 18, an amount paid to a nisg̱a'a Participant will be deemed to be a transfer of nisg̱a'a capital under This agreement if the payment:
A. reasonably can be considered to be a distribution of a capital Transfer received by the nisg̱a'a nation; and B. becomes payable to the nisg̱a'a participant within 90 days, and is Paid to the nisg̱a'a participant within 270 days, after the nisg̱a'a Nation receives the capital transfer.
20.
For the purposes of the Income tax act And the Income tax act (british columbia), nisg̱a'a capital transferred to, or recognized as Owned by, the nisg̱a'a nation or any nisg̱a'a village under this agreement Will be deemed to have been acquired by the nisg̱a'a nation or the Nisg̱a'a village, as the case may be, on the latest of the effective Date, the date of transfer or the date of recognition, at a cost equal To its fair market value on that date.
Taxation agreement 21.
On the effective date, the parties will enter into a taxation agreement.
The taxation agreement does not form part of this agreement.
22.
The taxation agreement is not intended to be a treaty or land claims Agreement, and is not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or Treaty rights within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 .
23.
Canada and british columbia will recommend to parliament and the Legislature, respectively, that the provisions of the taxation agreement Be given effect under federal and provincial law.
Chapter 17
Cultural artifacts and heritage General
1.
The parties recognize the integral role of nisg̱a'a artifacts in the Continuation of nisg̱a'a culture, values, and traditions.
2.
The parties recognize the nisg̱a'a nation's traditional and sacred Connection with nisg̱a'a artifacts, regardless of whether those artifacts Are held by the nisg̱a'a nation, a nisg̱a'a village, a nisg̱a'a Corporation, a nisg̱a'a citizen, the canadian museum of civilization, or The royal british columbia museum.
3.
If the nisg̱a'a nation or canada considers that there may be an error in The determination of whether an artifact:
A. set out in appendix l-1; or B. in the permanent collection of the canadian museum of civilization, Including an artifact set out in appendix l-2 Is a nisg̱a'a artifact, they will endeavour to determine whether the Artifact is a nisg̱a'a artifact.
4.
If the nisg̱a'a nation or british columbia considers that there may be an Error in the determination of whether an artifact:
A. set out in appendix l-3; or B. in the permanent collection of the royal british columbia museum, Including an artifact set out in appendix l-4 Is a nisg̱a'a artifact, they will endeavour to determine whether the Artifact is a nisg̱a'a artifact.
5.
A disagreement in respect of a determination under paragraph 3 or 4 of Whether an artifact is a nisg̱a'a artifact is a disagreement within the Meaning of the dispute resolution chapter.
6.
An artifact originally obtained from a nisg̱a'a person, a nisg̱a'a Community, or a nisg̱a'a heritage site is presumed, in the absence of Proof to the contrary, to be a nisg̱a'a artifact.
Return of nisg̱a'a artifacts Canadian museum of civilization 7.
Appendix l-1 and appendix l-2 set out all artifacts in the permanent Collection of the canadian museum of civilization on the effective date That have been identified as nisg̱a'a artifacts.
8.
The canadian museum of civilization will transfer to the nisg̱a'a nation Without condition all its legal interests in, and possession of, the Nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in appendix l-1:
A. as soon as practicable following a request by the nisg̱a'a nation; B. if there is no request by the nisg̱a'a nation, five years after the Effective date or the date that the artifact was included in appendix L-1, whichever date is later; or C. by any other date agreed to by the canadian museum of civilization And the nisg̱a'a nation.
9.
The transfer of the legal interests in, and possession of, the nisg̱a'a Artifacts under paragraph 8 is deemed to occur when those artifacts Arrive at a location for delivery designated in writing by the nisg̱a'a Nation.
10.
If the nisg̱a'a nation does not designate a location for delivery, the Canadian museum of civilization will deliver those artifacts to the Address for the nisg̱a'a nation set out in the general provisions Chapter.
11.
The canadian museum of civilization:
A. will continue to hold the nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in appendix l-1 Under the same terms and conditions as they are held on the effective Date, until they are transported to the nisg̱a'a nation; B. will not be liable for any loss or damage to those nisg̱a'a artifacts Unless the loss or damage results from dishonesty, gross negligence, or Malicious or wilful misconduct of its employees or agents; and C. will determine the transportation arrangements for, and will Transport, those nisg̱a'a artifacts in accordance with the prevailing Practices of the canadian museum of civilization for transportation of Artifacts to museums.
12.
If, after the effective date:
A. a nisg̱a'a artifact is permanently acquired by the canadian museum of Civilization; or B. it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that another artifact in the Collection of the canadian museum of civilization is a nisg̱a'a artifact The artifact will be added to appendix l-2 or, if the canadian museum of Civilization and the nisg̱a'a nation agree, to appendix l-1.
13.
If it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that an artifact set out in Appendix l-1 is not a nisg̱a'a artifact:
A. the artifact will be removed from appendix l-1; and B. unless the nisg̱a'a nation and canada otherwise agree, the nisg̱a'a Nation will transfer its legal interests in, and possession of, the Artifact to the canadian museum of civilization.
14.
If it is determined under paragraph 3 or 5 that an artifact set out in Appendix l-2 is not a nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be removed From appendix l-2.
15.
The nisg̱a'a nation and the canadian museum of civilization will share Possession of the nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in appendix l-2 in Accordance with any custodial agreements negotiated under paragraph 17.
16.
The canadian museum of civilization is responsible for the care, Maintenance, and preservation of the nisg̱a'a artifacts listed in Appendix l-2, in accordance with resources available to the canadian Museum of civilization for those activities and any custodial agreements Negotiated under paragraph 17.
17.
From time to time, at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation or the canadian Museum of civilization, the nisg̱a'a nation and the canadian museum of Civilization will negotiate and attempt to reach custodial agreements in Respect of nisg̱a'a artifacts listed in appendix l-2.
18.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 17 will:
A. respect nisg̱a'a laws and practices relating to nisg̱a'a artifacts; and B. comply with federal and provincial laws of general application and The statutory mandate of the canadian museum of civilization.
19.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 17 may set out:
A. the nisg̱a'a artifacts to be in the possession of the nisg̱a'a nation And those to be in the possession of the canadian museum of Civilization;
B. conditions of maintenance, storage, and handling of the nisg̱a'a Artifacts;
C. conditions of access to and use, including study, display, and Reproduction, of the nisg̱a'a artifacts and associated records by the Public, researchers, and scholars; D. provisions for incorporating new information into catalogue records And displays of the nisg̱a'a artifacts; and E. provisions for enhancing public knowledge about the nisg̱a'a nation Through the participation of nisg̱a'a citizens in public programs and Activities at the canadian museum of civilization.
20.
The nisg̱a'a nation and the canadian museum of civilization:
A. will consult each other if either of them proposes to transfer its Legal interest in a nisg̱a'a artifact set out in appendix l-1 or l-2 Respectively; and B. may exercise a right of first refusal to acquire the nisg̱a'a artifact On the proposed terms of the transfer.
Royal british columbia museum 21.
Appendix l-3 and appendix l-4 set out all artifacts in the permanent Collection of the royal british columbia museum on the effective date, That have been identified as nisg̱a'a artifacts.
22.
British columbia will transfer to the nisg̱a'a nation without condition All its legal interests in, and possession of, the nisg̱a'a artifacts set Out in appendix l-3:
A. as soon as practicable following a request by the nisg̱a'a nation; B. if there is no request by the nisg̱a'a nation, five years after the Effective date or the date that the artifact was included in appendix L-3, whichever date is later; or C. by any other date agreed to by british columbia and the nisg̱a'a Nation.
23.
The transfer of the legal interests in, and possession of, the nisg̱a'a Artifacts under paragraph 22 is deemed to occur when those artifacts Arrive at a location for delivery designated in writing by the nisg̱a'a Nation.
24.
If the nisg̱a'a nation does not designate a location for delivery, the Royal british columbia museum will deliver those artifacts to the Address for the nisg̱a'a nation set out in the general provisions Chapter.
25.
The royal british columbia museum:
A. will continue to hold the nisg̱a'a artifacts set out in appendix l-3 Under the same terms and conditions as they are held on the effective Date, until they are transported to the nisg̱a'a nation; B. will not be liable for any loss or damage to those nisg̱a'a artifacts Unless the loss or damage results from dishonesty, gross negligence, or Malicious or wilful misconduct of its employees or agents; and C. will determine the transportation arrangements for, and will Transport, those nisg̱a'a artifacts in accordance with the prevailing Practices of the royal british columbia museum for transportation of Artifacts to museums.
26.
British columbia will not be liable for any loss or damage to nisg̱a'a Artifacts set out in appendix l-3 unless the loss or damage results from Dishonesty, gross negligence, or malicious or wilful misconduct of its Employees or agents.
27.
If, after the effective date, a nisg̱a'a artifact is permanently acquired By the royal british columbia museum, the artifact will be included in Appendix l-4 or, where the royal british columbia museum and nisg̱a'a Nation agree, will be transferred to nisg̱a'a nation in accordance with This chapter.
28.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 of this chapter that another Artifact in the collection of the royal british columbia museum on the Effective date is a nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be included in Appendix l-4, or transferred to nisg̱a'a nation in accordance with this Chapter, in order to maintain the representative division of the nisg̱a'a Artifacts in appendix l-3 and appendix l-4.
29.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 that an artifact listed in Appendix l-3 is not a nisg̱a'a artifact:
A. the artifact will be removed from appendix l-3; and B. unless the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia otherwise agree, the Nisg̱a'a nation will transfer its legal interests in, and possession of, The artifact to the royal british columbia museum.
30.
If it is determined under paragraph 4 or 5 that an artifact listed in Appendix l-4 is not a nisg̱a'a artifact, the artifact will be removed From appendix l-4.
31.
From time to time, at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation or british Columbia, the nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia will negotiate and Attempt to reach custodial agreements in respect of the nisg̱a'a Artifacts listed in appendix l-4.
32.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 31 will:
A. respect nisg̱a'a laws and practices relating to nisg̱a'a artifacts; and B. comply with federal and provincial laws of general application, and The statutory mandate of the royal british columbia museum.
33.
Custodial agreements under paragraph 31 may set out:
A. conditions of maintenance, storage, and handling of the nisg̱a'a Artifacts;
B. conditions of access to and use, including study, display, and Reproduction, of the nisg̱a'a artifacts and associated records by the Public, researchers, and scholars; C. provisions for incorporating new information into catalogue records And displays of the nisg̱a'a artifacts; and D. conditions under which nisg̱a'a artifacts may be permanently removed From the collection of the royal british columbia museum.
34.
The nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia may negotiate agreements that:
A. establish processes for lending nisg̱a'a artifacts; B. provide for replication of nisg̱a'a artifacts; C. provide for professional and technical training for nisg̱a'a citizens In museum skills and conservation expertise; D. provide for enhancing public knowledge about the nisg̱a'a nation Through the participation of nisg̱a'a citizens in public programs and Activities at the royal british columbia museum; and E. provide for other matters.
Access to other collections 35.
From time to time, at the request of the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and British columbia will use reasonable efforts to facilitate the nisg̱a'a Nation's access to nisg̱a'a artifacts and human remains of nisg̱a'a Ancestry that are held in other public and private collections.
Protection of heritage sites 36.
Nisg̱a'a government will develop processes to manage heritage sites on Nisg̱a'a lands in order to preserve the heritage values associated with Those sites from proposed land and resource activities that may affect Those sites.
37.
British columbia will develop or continue processes to manage heritage Sites in order to preserve the heritage values associated with those Sites from proposed land and resource activities that may affect those Sites.
38.
The processes under paragraphs 36 and 37 will include measures designed To:
A. identify heritage sites; B. provide notice to each other of heritage sites; C. assess the significance of heritage sites; D. ensure appropriate protective or management measures are taken to Protect, or, if necessary, to mitigate the effects of unavoidable Impacts on, heritage sites and associated material; and E. ensure that the appropriate person takes those measures and bears the Associated costs.
39.
Until nisg̱a'a government establishes the processes referred to in Paragraph 36, british columbia's processes will apply on nisg̱a'a lands.
Other nisg̱a'a artifacts 40.
The nisg̱a'a nation owns any nisg̱a'a artifact discovered within nisg̱a'a Lands or category a lands after the effective date, unless another Person establishes their ownership of the artifact.
41.
If any nisg̱a'a artifact discovered in british columbia outside nisg̱a'a Lands and category a lands comes into the permanent possession, or under The control, of british columbia, british columbia will lend the Artifact to the nisg̱a'a nation in accordance with any agreements Negotiated under paragraph 31 or 34, and british columbia may transfer The artifact to the nisg̱a'a nation.
42.
If any nisg̱a'a artifact discovered outside nisg̱a'a lands and category a Lands comes into the permanent possession, or under the control, of Canada, canada may lend the artifact to the nisg̱a'a nation in accordance With any agreements negotiated with the nisg̱a'a nation, and canada may Transfer the artifact to nisg̱a'a nation.
Human remains 43.
Subject to federal and provincial laws, any human remains of individuals Of nisg̱a'a ancestry that are removed from a heritage site will be Delivered to the nisg̱a'a nation.
Chapter 18
Local and regional government relationships 1.
For purposes of representation of residents of nisg̱a'a lands on the Board of the regional district of kitimat-stikine, from the effective Date, nisg̱a'a lands is part of electoral area "a" in the regional District of kitimat-stikine.
2.
Residents of nisg̱a'a lands have the right to vote in elections and Referenda of the regional district of kitimat-stikine in accordance with Provincial legislation.
3.
British columbia will consult with the nisg̱a'a nation before altering The boundaries of electoral area "a" in the regional district of Kitimat-stikine.
4.
British columbia will not make any changes to electoral area boundaries Which would result in nisg̱a'a lands being in more than one electoral Area, without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation.
5.
The nisg̱a'a nation and each nisg̱a'a village, or any of them, may enter Into agreements with the regional district of kitimat-stikine respecting The cost of services and the payment for the delivery of:
A. regional district of kitimat-stikine services on nisg̱a'a lands; and B. nisg̱a'a lisims government or nisg̱a'a village government services to The regional district of kitimat-stikine.
6.
The nisg̱a'a nation and the regional district of kitimat-stikine may Enter into agreements to coordinate their activities with respect to Common areas of responsibility such as planning, health services, and Infrastructure development.
7.
Nisg̱a'a lisims government and the regional district of kitimat-stikine Will meet, at the request of either of them, to discuss matters of Mutual interest.
Chapter 19
Dispute resolution Definitions
1.
In this chapter and in appendix m-1 to m-6:
"appendix" Means appendix m-1, m-2, m-3, m-4, m-5, or m-6 to this agreement.
General
2.
In this chapter, and in each appendix, a party is deemed to be directly Engaged in a disagreement if another party, acting reasonably, gives the First party a written notice requiring it to participate in a process Described in this chapter to resolve the disagreement.
3.
The parties share the following objectives:
A. to cooperate with each other to develop harmonious working Relationships;
B. to prevent, or, alternatively, to minimize disagreements; C. to identify disagreements quickly and resolve them in the most Expeditious and cost-effective manner possible; and D. to resolve disagreements in a non-adversarial, collaborative, and Informal atmosphere.
4.
Except as otherwise provided, participating parties may agree to vary a Procedural requirement contained in this chapter, or in an appendix, as It applies to a particular disagreement.
5.
Participating parties may agree to, and the supreme court of british Columbia, on application, may order:
A. the abridgment of a time limit; or B. the extension of a time limit, despite the expiration of that time Limit
In this chapter or in an appendix.
Scope: when this chapter applies to a disagreement 6.
This chapter is not intended to apply to all conflicts or disputes Between or among the parties, but is limited to the conflicts or Disputes described in paragraph 7.
7.
This chapter only applies to:
A. a conflict or dispute respecting:
I. the interpretation, application, or implementation of this agreement, Or
Ii. a breach or anticipated breach of this agreement; B. a conflict or dispute, where provided for in this agreement; or C. negotiations required to be conducted under any provision of this Agreement that provides that the parties, or any of them, "will Negotiate and attempt to reach agreement".
8.
This chapter does not apply to:
A. an agreement between or among the parties that is ancillary, Subsequent, or supplemental to this agreement unless the parties have Agreed that this chapter applies to that agreement; B. the implementation plan; or C. conflicts or disputes, where excluded from this chapter.
9.
Nothing in this chapter limits the application of a dispute resolution Process, under any law of general application, to a conflict or dispute Involving a person if that conflict or dispute is not a disagreement.
10.
Nothing in any law of general application limits the right of a party to Refer a disagreement to this chapter.
Disagreements to go through stages 11.
The parties desire and expect that most disagreements will be resolved By informal discussions between or among the parties, without the Necessity of invoking this chapter.
12.
Except as otherwise provided, disagreements not resolved informally will Progress, until resolved, through the following stages:
A. stage one: formal, unassisted efforts to reach agreement between or Among the parties, in collaborative negotiations under appendix m-1; B. stage two: structured efforts to reach agreement between or among the Parties with the assistance of a neutral, who has no authority to Resolve the dispute, in a facilitated process under appendix m-2, m-3, M-4, or m-5 as applicable; and C. stage three: final adjudication in arbitral proceedings under Appendix m-6, or in judicial proceedings.
13.
Except as otherwise provided, no party may refer a disagreement to final Adjudication in stage three without first proceeding through stage one And a facilitated process in stage two as required in this chapter.
14.
Nothing in this chapter prevents a party from commencing arbitral or Judicial proceedings at any time:
A. to prevent the loss of a right to commence proceedings due to the Expiration of a limitation period; or B. to obtain interlocutory or interim relief that is otherwise available Pending resolution of the disagreement under this chapter.
Stage one: collaborative negotiations 15.
If a disagreement is not resolved by informal discussion, and a party Directly engaged in the disagreement wishes to invoke this chapter, that Party will deliver a written notice, as required under appendix m-1, as Soon as practicable to the other parties, requiring the commencement of Collaborative negotiations.
16.
Upon receiving the notice under paragraph 15, a party directly engaged In the disagreement will participate in the collaborative negotiations.
17.
A party not directly engaged in the disagreement may participate in the Collaborative negotiations by giving written notice to the other Parties, preferably before the collaborative negotiations commence.
18.
If the parties have commenced negotiations in the circumstances Described in subparagraph 7 (c), then, for all purposes under this Chapter, those negotiations will be deemed collaborative negotiations And the particular matter under negotiation will be considered a Disagreement.
19.
Collaborative negotiations terminate in the circumstances set out in Appendix m-1.
Stage two: facilitated processes 20.
Within 15 days of termination of collaborative negotiations that have Not resolved the disagreement, a party directly engaged in a Disagreement, by delivering a notice to the other parties, may require The commencement of a facilitated process.
21.
A notice under paragraph 20:
A. will include the name of the party or parties directly engaged in the Disagreement and a summary of the particulars of the disagreement; and B. may propose the use of a particular facilitated process described in Paragraph 24.
22.
Upon receiving a notice under paragraph 20, a party directly engaged in The disagreement will participate in a facilitated process described in Paragraph 24.
23.
A party not directly engaged in the disagreement may participate in the Facilitated process by giving written notice to the other parties within 15 days of delivery of a notice under paragraph 20.
24.
Within 30 days after delivery of a notice under paragraph 20, the Parties directly engaged in the disagreement will attempt to agree to Use one of the following processes:
A. mediation under appendix m-2; B. technical advisory panel under appendix m-3; C. neutral evaluation under appendix m-4; D. elders advisory council under appendix m-5; or E. any other non-binding dispute resolution process assisted by a Neutral
And if they fail to agree, they will be deemed to have selected Mediation under appendix m-2.
25.
A facilitated process terminates:
A. in the circumstances set out in the applicable appendix; or B. as agreed by the participating parties, if an appendix does not Apply.
Negotiating conditions 26.
In order to enhance the prospect of reaching agreement, the parties Participating in collaborative negotiations or a negotiation component Of a facilitated process will:
A. at the request of a participating party, provide timely disclosure of Sufficient information and documents to enable a full examination of the Subject matter being negotiated; B. make every reasonable effort to appoint negotiating representatives With sufficient authority to reach an agreement, or with ready access to Such authority; and C. negotiate in good faith.
Settlement agreement 27.
Any agreement reached in a process under this chapter:
A. will be:
I. recorded in writing, Ii. signed by authorized representatives of the parties to the Agreement, and Iii. delivered to all parties; and B. is binding only on the parties who have signed the agreement.
Stage three: adjudication — arbitration 28.
After the later of termination of collaborative negotiations, or of a Required facilitated process, in respect of a disagreement arising out Of any provision of this agreement that provides that a matter will be "finally determined by arbitration", the disagreement will, on the Delivery of a notice by a party directly engaged in the disagreement, to All parties as required under appendix m-6, be referred to and finally Resolved by arbitration in accordance with that appendix.
29.
After the later of termination of collaborative negotiations, or a Required facilitated process, in respect of any disagreement, other than A disagreement referred to in paragraph 28, and with the written Agreement of all parties directly engaged in the disagreement, the Disagreement will be referred to, and finally resolved by, arbitration In accordance with appendix m-6.
30.
If two parties make a written agreement under paragraph 29, they will Deliver a copy of the agreement as soon as practicable to the other Party.
31.
Upon delivering a written notice to the participating parties to the Arbitration within 15 days after receiving a notice under paragraph 28 Or copy of a written agreement under paragraph 30, a party not directly Engaged in the disagreement is entitled to be, and will be added as, a Party to the arbitration of that disagreement whether or not that party Has participated in collaborative negotiations or a required facilitated Process.
32.
Despite paragraph 31, an arbitral tribunal may make an order adding a Party as a participating party at any time, if the arbitral tribunal Considers that:
A. the participating parties will not be unduly prejudiced; or B. the issues stated in the pleadings are materially different from Those identified in the notice to arbitrate under paragraph 28 or the Written agreement to arbitrate in paragraph 29 And, in that event, the arbitral tribunal may make any order it Considers appropriate or necessary in the circumstances respecting Conditions, including the payment of costs, upon which the party may be Added.
Effect of arbitral award 33.
An arbitral award is final and binding on all parties whether or not a Party has participated in the arbitration.
34.
Despite paragraph 33, an arbitral award is not binding on a party that Has not participated in the arbitration if:
A. the party did not receive copies of:
I. the notice of arbitration or agreement to arbitrate, or Ii. the pleadings and any amendments or supplements to the pleadings; or B. the arbitral tribunal refused to add the party as a participating Party to the arbitration under paragraph 32.
Application of legislation 35.
No legislation of any party respecting arbitration, except the Settlement legislation, applies to an arbitration conducted under this Chapter.
36.
A court must not intervene or offer assistance in an arbitration or Review an arbitral award under this chapter except as provided in Appendix m-6.
Stage three: adjudication — judicial proceedings 37.
Nothing in this chapter creates a cause of action where none otherwise Exists.
38.
Subject to paragraph 39, at any time a party may commence proceedings in The supreme court of british columbia in respect of a disagreement.
39.
A party may not commence judicial proceedings in respect of a Disagreement if the disagreement:
A. is required to be referred to arbitration under paragraph 28 or has Been agreed to be referred to arbitration under paragraph 29; B. has not been referred to collaborative negotiations or a facilitated Process as required under this chapter; or C. has been referred to collaborative negotiations or a facilitated Process that has not yet been terminated.
40.
Nothing in subparagraph 39 (a) prevents an arbitral tribunal or the Participating parties from requesting the supreme court of british Columbia to make a ruling respecting a question of law as permitted in Appendix m-6.
Notice to parties 41.
If, in any judicial or administrative proceeding, an issue arises in Respect of:
A. the interpretation or validity of this agreement; or B. the validity, or applicability of:
I. any settlement legislation, or Ii. any nisg̱a'a law The issue will not be decided until the party raising the issue has Properly served notice on the attorney general of british columbia, the Attorney general of canada, and nisg̱a'a lisims government.
42.
In any judicial or administrative proceeding to which paragraph 41 Applies, the attorney general of british columbia, the attorney general Of canada, and nisg̱a'a lisims government may appear and participate in The proceedings as parties with the same rights as any other party.
Costs
43.
Except as provided otherwise in the appendices, each participating party Will bear the costs of its own participation, representation, and Appointments in collaborative negotiations, a facilitated process, or an Arbitration, conducted under this chapter.
44.
Subject to paragraph 43 and except as provided otherwise in the Appendices, the participating parties will share equally all costs of Collaborative negotiations, a facilitated process, or an arbitration, Conducted under this chapter.
45.
For purposes of paragraph 44, "costs" Include:
A. fees of the neutrals; B. costs of hearing and meeting rooms; C. actual and reasonable costs of communications, accommodation, meals, And travel of the neutrals; D. costs of required secretarial and administrative support for the Neutrals, as permitted in the appendices; and E. administration fees of a neutral appointing authority.
Chapter 20
Eligibility and enrolment Eligibility criteria 1.
An individual is eligible to be enrolled under this agreement if that Individual is:
A. of nisg̱a'a ancestry and their mother was born into one of the nisg̱a'a Tribes;
B. a descendant of an individual described in subparagraphs 1 (a) or 1 (c); C. an adopted child of an individual described in subparagraphs 1 (a) or 1 (b); or D. an aboriginal individual who is married to someone described in Subparagraphs 1 (a), (b), or (c) and has been adopted by one of the four Nisg̱a'a tribes in accordance with Ayuukhl
Nisg̱a'a, that is, the individual has been accepted by a nisg̱a'a tribe, As a member of that tribe, in the presence of witnesses from the other Nisg̱a'a tribes at a settlement or stone moving feast.
2.
Enrolment under this agreement does not:
A. confer or deny rights of entry into canada, canadian citizenship, the Right to be registered as an indian under the Indian act , or any of the rights or benefits under the Indian act ; or B. except as set out in this agreement or in any federal or provincial Law, impose any obligation on canada or british columbia to provide Rights or benefits.
Other land claims agreements 3.
An individual who is enrolled under another land claims agreement in Canada may not at the same time be enrolled under this agreement.
4.
An individual enrolled under another land claims agreement in canada may Apply to enrol under this agreement, but if their application succeeds That individual must withdraw from enrolment under the other land claims Agreement.
5.
If the enrolment committee determines that an individual who is enrolled Under another land claims agreement in canada meets the eligibility Criteria, the individual will be conditionally enrolled, and the Individual's enrolment will be effective when the individual ceases to Be enrolled under the other land claims agreement.
6.
If an individual who has been conditionally enrolled does not, within 60 Days after receiving written notification by the enrolment committee, Demonstrate that they have ceased to be enrolled under the other land Claims agreement, the enrolment committee will remove that individual's Name from the enrolment register.
Applicants
7.
An individual may:
A. apply to the enrolment committee for enrolment; B. appeal a decision of the enrolment committee to the enrolment appeal Board; or C. seek judicial review of a decision of the enrolment appeal board On their own behalf, or on behalf of a minor, or an adult whose affairs They have the legal authority to manage.
Enrolment committee 8.
The enrolment committee is a committee established by the general Executive board of the nisg̱a'a tribal council and governed by enrolment Rules adopted by the general executive board of the nisg̱a'a tribal Council.
9.
The enrolment committee comprises eight nisg̱a'a individuals, as follows:
A. two members from the Laxsgiik
(eagle) tribe, as selected by that tribe; B. two members from the Gis
K
'aast (killer whale) tribe, as selected by that tribe; C. two members from the G
Anada
(raven) tribe, as selected by that tribe; and D. two members from the Laxgibuu
(wolf) tribe, as selected by that tribe Each of whom must understand Ayuu
K
Hl
Nisg̱a'a, nisg̱a'a culture, nisg̱a'a ancestry, nisg̱a'a tribes, and nisg̱a'a Community institutions, and must reside in a nisg̱a'a village.
10.
During the initial enrolment period, the nisg̱a'a tribal council or the Nisg̱a'a nation, as the case may be, will notify canada and british Columbia of the names of the individuals appointed to the enrolment Committee.
11.
During the initial enrolment period, the enrolment committee will:
A. consider each application and:
I. enrol each applicant who demonstrates that they meet the eligibility Criteria, and Ii. refuse to enrol each applicant who does not demonstrate that they Meet the eligibility criteria; B. establish and maintain, as a public document, an enrolment register Containing the name of each individual who is enrolled; C. take reasonable steps to publish the enrolment rules and the Eligibility criteria; D. provide an application form to any individual who wishes to apply for Enrolment;
E. provide written notification to each applicant of its decision in Respect of their application, and if enrolment is refused, include Written reasons for that decision; F. provide a copy of the notification referred to in subparagraph 11 (e), including any reasons, to the nisg̱a'a tribal council or the nisg̱a'a Nation, as the case may be, and to canada; G. upon request, provide in confidence a party or the enrolment appeal Board with information in respect of an individual's enrolment Application;
H. add names to, or delete names from, the enrolment register in Accordance with this chapter; I. subject to this chapter, keep information provided by and about Applicants confidential; and J. provide a copy of the enrolment register to the parties each year and At other times on request.
12.
In addition to the functions set out in paragraph 11, before the Completion of the referendum in respect of this agreement under Paragraph 2 of the ratification chapter, the enrolment committee will:
A. provide the ratification committee with the name of each individual Who is enrolled, and any other information requested by the ratification Committee; and B. if the enrolment committee forms the opinion that an applicant will Be refused enrolment, provide the applicant with a reasonable Opportunity to present further information or representations, in Accordance with the enrolment rules.
13.
Each applicant has the burden of proving to the enrolment committee that They meet the eligibility criteria.
14.
Subject to this chapter, all decisions of the enrolment committee are Final and binding.
15.
The enrolment committee may, before an appeal of a decision is Commenced, vary the decision on the basis of new information, if it Considers the decision was in error.
16.
If the enrolment committee does not make a decision in respect of an Application for enrolment within the time established in the enrolment Rules, the application will be deemed to be refused.
Application to remove applicants from enrolment register 17.
If a nisg̱a'a participant, or an individual having legal authority to Manage the affairs of a nisg̱a'a participant, applies to have the nisg̱a'a Participant's name removed from the enrolment register, the enrolment Committee will remove the nisg̱a'a participant's name and will notify the Individual who made that application.
Enrolment appeal board Appeals
18.
An applicant, a party, or a nisg̱a'a village may appeal to the enrolment Appeal board any decision of the enrolment committee made under Subparagraph 11 (a) or paragraph 15.
Establishment of enrolment appeal board 19.
On the effective date, the nisg̱a'a nation and canada will establish the Enrolment appeal board consisting of three members. the nisg̱a'a nation And canada will each appoint one member and will jointly appoint a Chairperson.
20.
The enrolment appeal board will:
A. establish its own procedures and time limits; B. hear and determine each appeal brought under paragraph 18 and decide Whether the applicant will be enrolled; C. conduct its hearings in public unless it determines in a particular Case that there are reasons for confidentiality that outweigh the public Interest in having an open hearing; and D. provide written reasons for its decision to the appellant, the Applicant and the parties.
21.
The enrolment appeal board:
A. by summons, may require any individual to appear before the enrolment Appeal board as a witness and produce any relevant document in their Possession; and B. may direct a witness to answer on oath or solemn affirmation Questions posed to the witness.
22.
A judge of the supreme court of british columbia, on application by the Enrolment appeal board, may enforce a summons or direction made under Paragraph 21.
23.
An applicant, a party, a nisg̱a'a village or a witness appearing before The enrolment appeal board may be represented by counsel or agent.
24.
No action lies or may be instituted against the enrolment appeal board, Or any member of the enrolment appeal board, for anything said or done, Or omitted to be said or done, in good faith in the performance, or Intended performance, of a duty or in the exercise or intended exercise Of a power under this chapter.
25.
Subject to paragraphs 26 to 29, all decisions of the enrolment appeal Board are final and binding.
Judicial review 26.
An applicant, a party, or a nisg̱a'a village may apply to the supreme Court of british columbia to review and set aside a decision of the Enrolment appeal board, on the grounds that the enrolment appeal board Acted without jurisdiction, acted beyond its jurisdiction, refused to Exercise its jurisdiction, failed to observe procedural fairness, erred In law, or based its decision on an erroneous finding of fact that it Made in a perverse or capricious manner, or without regard for the Material before it.
27.
On an application for judicial review, the court may either dismiss the Application or set aside the decision and refer the matter back to the Enrolment appeal board for determination in accordance with any Directions that the court considers appropriate.
28.
If the enrolment appeal board fails to hear or decide an appeal within a Reasonable time, an applicant, a party, or a nisg̱a'a village may apply To the supreme court of british columbia for an order directing the Enrolment appeal board to hear or decide the appeal in accordance with Any directions that the court considers appropriate.
29.
An applicant, a party, or a nisg̱a'a village may apply for judicial Review within 60 days of receiving notification of the decision of the Enrolment appeal board or a longer time determined by the court.
Funding
30.
During the initial enrolment period, canada and british columbia will Pay the costs of the enrolment committee and the enrolment appeal board As set out in the "eligibility and enrolment funding agreement for a Nisg̱a'a final agreement" dated october 23, 1997.
Dissolution of enrolment committee and enrolment appeal board 31.
The enrolment committee and the enrolment appeal board will be dissolved When they have made a decision in respect of every application or appeal Made or commenced before the end of their respective initial enrolment Period.
32.
On dissolution, the enrolment committee and enrolment appeal board will Provide their records to nisg̱a'a lisims government.
Nisg̱a'a nation responsibilities for enrolment 33.
Subject to the funding agreement referred to in paragraph 30, after the Initial enrolment period the nisg̱a'a nation will:
A. be responsible for an enrolment process and the administrative costs Of that process; B. maintain the enrolment register; C. provide a copy of the enrolment register to canada and british Columbia each year or as they request; and D. provide information concerning enrolment to canada and british Columbia as they request.
Chapter 21
Implementation
1.
On the effective date, the parties will establish an implementation plan To guide the parties on the implementation of this agreement.
2.
The implementation plan will be for a term of 10 years, commencing on The effective date.
3.
The implementation plan:
A. identifies obligations and activities arising from this agreement; B. identifies the manner in which the parties anticipate fulfilling Those obligations and undertaking those activities; C. contains guidelines for the operation of the implementation committee Established under this chapter; D. includes a communication strategy in respect of the implementation And content of this agreement; E. provides for the preparation of annual reports on the implementation Of this agreement; and F. addresses other matters agreed to by the parties.
4.
The implementation plan:
A. is not part of this agreement; B. is not intended to be a treaty or land claims agreement, and it is Not intended to recognize or affirm aboriginal or treaty rights, within The meaning of sections 25 or 35 of the Constitution act, 1982 ; C. does not create legal obligations; D. does not alter any rights or obligations set out in this agreement; E. does not preclude any party from asserting that rights or obligations Exist under this agreement even though they are not referred to in the Implementation plan; and F. is not to be used to interpret this agreement.
Implementation committee 5.
On the effective date, the parties will establish the implementation Committee for a term of 10 years:
A. to provide a forum for the parties to discuss the implementation of This agreement; and B. before the tenth anniversary of the effective date, to advise the Parties on the further implementation of this agreement.
Chapter 22
Ratification
General
1.
Ratification of this agreement by the parties in accordance with this Chapter is a condition precedent to the validity of this agreement and, Unless so ratified, this agreement has no force or effect.
Ratification by the nisg̱a'a nation 2.
Ratification of this agreement by the nisg̱a'a nation requires:
A. debate at an assembly of the nisg̱a'a nation called to consider this Agreement and to determine whether to refer it to a referendum; B. proposal at that assembly of a motion to refer this agreement to a Referendum;
C. adoption of that motion by a simple majority of those voting on that Motion;
D. conduct, by the ratification committee, of the referendum referred to In paragraph 5; and E. that in that referendum, a simple majority of eligible voters vote in Favour of entering into this agreement.
3.
All votes cast in a referendum under this chapter will be by secret Ballot.
Ratification committee 4.
The ratification committee is a committee established by the general Executive board of the nisg̱a'a tribal council and governed by rules Adopted by the general executive board of the nisg̱a'a tribal council. it Includes a representative of canada, selected by the minister of indian Affairs and northern development, and a representative of british Columbia.
5.
Conduct of the referendum by the ratification committee requires the Following steps:
A. preparing and publishing a preliminary list of voters based on the Information provided by the enrolment committee under paragraph 12 of The eligibility and enrolment chapter; B. taking reasonable steps to provide the opportunity for the nisg̱a'a Nation to review this agreement; C. preparing and publishing an official voters list at least 14 days Before the first day of general voting in the referendum by:
I. determining whether or not each individual whose name is provided to It by the enrolment committee is eligible to vote, and Ii. including on that list the name of each individual whom the Ratification committee determines to be eligible to vote in accordance With paragraph 6; D. updating the official voters list by:
I. at any time before the end of general voting, adding to the official Voters list the name of each individual whom the ratification committee Determines to be eligible to vote in accordance with paragraph 6, Ii. adding to the official voters list the name of each individual who Votes in accordance with paragraph 7 and whose vote counts in accordance With paragraph 8, Iii. removing from the official voters list the name of each individual Who died on or before the last day of voting without having voted in the Referendum, and Iv. removing from the official voters list the name of each individual Who did not vote in the referendum and who provides, within seven days Of the last scheduled day of voting in the referendum, certification by A qualified medical practitioner that the individual was physically or Mentally incapacitated to the point that they could not have voted on The dates set for general voting; E. approving the form and content of the ballot; F. authorizing and providing general direction to voting officers; G. conducting the vote on a day or days determined by the ratification Committee; and H. counting the vote.
Eligible voters 6.
An individual is eligible to vote in the referendum if that individual:
A. has been enrolled by the enrolment committee as a nisg̱a'a participant In accordance with the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 1 of The eligibility and enrolment chapter; B. will be at least 18 years of age on the last scheduled day of voting For the referendum referred to in paragraph 5; C. is ordinarily resident in canada; and D. is not enrolled in any other land claims agreement in canada.
7.
An individual who is eligible to vote under paragraph 6, but whose name Is not included on the official voters list, may vote in the referendum If that individual:
A. provides the voting officer with a completed enrolment application Form or evidence satisfactory to the voting officer that the individual Has submitted an enrolment application form to the enrolment committee; B. provides evidence satisfactory to the voting officer that the Individual meets the requirements set out in subparagraphs 6 (b) and (c); and C. declares in writing that they:
I. meet the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 1 of the Eligibility and enrolment chapter, and Ii. are not enrolled in any other land claims agreement in canada.
8.
The ballot of an individual who votes under paragraph 7 counts in Determining the outcome of the referendum only if the ratification Committee determines that the individual is enrolled by the enrolment Committee and meets the criteria set out in subparagraphs 6 (b), (c), And (d).
Costs
9.
Canada and british columbia will pay the costs of the ratification Committee as set out in the "ratification funding agreement for a Nisg̱a'a final agreement" entered into by the parties on march 31, 1998.
Ratification by canada 10.
Ratification of this agreement by canada requires:
A. that this agreement be signed by a minister of the crown authorized By the governor in council; and B. the enactment of federal settlement legislation giving effect to this Agreement.
Ratification by british columbia 11.
Ratification of this agreement by british columbia requires:
A. that this agreement be signed by a minister of the crown authorized By the lieutenant governor in council; and B. the enactment of provincial settlement legislation giving effect to This agreement.
Adoption of the nisg̱a'a constitution 12.
Adoption of the nisg̱a'a constitution requires the support of at least 70% of those eligible voters who vote in a referendum on the nisg̱a'a Constitution.
Map of nisg̱a'a lands Link to large map Appendix table of contents Appendix — introduction Appendix a — nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-1 Map of index of map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-2 32 map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-3 Metes and bounds description of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-4 List of former nisg̱a'a indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b — exceptions to nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-1 Land in the vicinity of red bluff that has been set apart as Indian reserve no. 88 Appendix b-2 Fee simple parcels within the boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-3 Woodlot licence and agriculture leases within the boundaries Of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-4 Roads associated with the fee simple parcels referred to in Appendix b-2 Appendix c — interests on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-1 Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Part 1
Existing interests Part 2
Public utility transmission and distribution facilities Part 3
Roads
Appendix c-2 Applicable forms of document for existing interests listed in Part 1 of appendix c-1 Document 1
Licence of occupation for communication site Document 2
Licence of occupation for provincial communication site Document 3
Licence of occupation for communication site with utility access Document 4
Licence of occupation for communication site with road access Document 5
Licence of occupation for communication site with road access And utility access Document 6
Licence of occupation for hydro communication site Document 7
Licence of occupation for forestry experimental plots Document 8
Licence of occupation for a hydrometric station Document 9
Licence of occupation for a navigational light Document 10
Licence of occupation for telephone exchange Document 11
Permit of occupation for waterworks Document 12
Special use permit for forestry operations Document 13
Leases (not published) Appendix c-3 Applicable forms of document for public utility transmission And distribution facilities listed in part 2 of appendix c-1 Document 1
Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to British columbia hydro and power authority (hydro) Document 2
Grant of right of way and licence for telecommunications to bc Tel
Appendix c-4 Applicable forms of document for roads listed in part 3 of Appendix c-1 Document 1
Grant of right of way for secondary provincial roads; Document 2
Grant of private road easement; and Document 3
Grant of right of way for access roads to british columbia hydro And power authority (hydro).
Appendix c-5 Certificates of possession issued by canada on former nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-6 Persons with an interest authorized by band council resolution On former nisg̱a'a indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-7 Angling guide licences, trapline licences and guide outfitter Licence wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix d — nisg̱a'a fee simple lands outside nisg̱a'a lands Appendix d-1 Map of category a and b lands Appendix d-2 Category a lands Appendix d-3 Sketches of category a lands Appendix d-4 List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, Encumbrances, licences, and permits located on category a Lands
Appendix d-5 Sketches showing the location of active mineral claims on Category a lands Appendix d-6 Category b lands Appendix d-7 Sketches of category b lands Appendix d-8 List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, Encumbrances, licences and permits located on category b lands Appendix e — map of nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure Map showing operating areas of the nisg̱a'a commercial recreation Tenure
Appendix f — heritage sites and key geographic features Appendix f-1 Sites of cultural and historic significance to the nisg̱a'a Nation to be designated as provincial heritage sites Appendix f-2 Names to be recorded in the british columbia geographic names Information system Appendix f-3 Place names to be changed by british columbia Appendix g — parks and ecological reserve Appendix g-1 Map and metes and bounds description of anhluut'ukwsim laxmihl Angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a (a.k.a. nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed Park)
Appendix g-2 Map and metes and bounds description of gingietl creek Ecological reserve no. 115 Appendix g-3 Map and metes and bounds description of bear glacier park Appendix h — transitional provisions for forest resources Schedule 1
Map of forestry transition period planning criteria for forest Development plans Appendix i — maps of nass area and areas for bivalve Harvesting
Appendix i-1 Map of nass area with general location of intertidal zones for Bivalve harvesting Appendix i-2 Map of observatory inlet bivalve harvesting area Appendix i-3 Map of nasoga'a gulf bivalve harvesting area Appendix i-4 Map of winter inlet bivalve harvesting area Appendix j — nass wildlife area Appendix k — map of guide outfitter area Map of guide outfitter area with the general location of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure areas Appendix l — cultural artifacts and heritage Appendix l-1 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the canadian museum Of civilization to the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-2 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be shared by the canadian museum of Civilization and the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-3 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the royal british Columbia museum to the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-4 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be held by the royal british columbia Museum
Appendix m — dispute resolution Appendix m-1 Collaborative negotiations Appendix m-2 Mediation
Appendix m-3 Technical advisory panel Appendix m-4 Neutral evaluation Appendix m-5 Elders advisory council Appendix m-6 Arbitration
Map of nisg̱a'a lands And
Appendices
Introduction
These appendices form part of the nisg̱a'a final agreement entered into Between:
The nisg̱a'a nation; Her majesty the queen In right of canada; And
Her majesty the queen In right of British columbia Appendix a Nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-1 Map index of map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-2 32 map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-3 Metes and bounds description of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-4 List of former nisg̱a'a indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix a-1 Map index of map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Link to large map Appendix a-2 32 map sheets of nisg̱a'a lands Map sheet 1 — 103i. 081 Link to large map Map sheet 2 — 103i. 082 Link to large map Map sheet 3 — 103i. 083 Link to large map Map sheet 4 — 103i. 084 Link to large map Map sheet 5 — 103i. 091 Link to large map Map sheet 6 — 103i. 092 Link to large map Map sheet 7 — 103i. 093 Link to large map Map sheet 8 — 103i. 094 Link to large map Map sheet 9 — 1030. 010 Link to large map Map sheet 10 — 103p. 001 Link to large map Map sheet 11 — 103p. 002 Link to large map Map sheet 12 — 103p. 003 Link to large map Map sheet 13 — 103p. 004 Link to large map Map sheet 14 — 103p. 005 Link to large map Map sheet 15 — 103p. 011 Link to large map Map sheet 16 — 103p. 012 Link to large map Map sheet 17 — 103p. 013 Link to large map Map sheet 18 — 103p. 014 Link to large map Map sheet 19 — 103p. 015 Link to large map Map sheet 20 — 103p. 016 Link to large map Map sheet 21 — 103p. 022 Link to large map Map sheet 22 — 103p. 023 Link to large map Map sheet 23 — 103p. 024 Link to large map Map sheet 24 — 103p. 025 Link to large map Map sheet 25 — 103p. 026 Link to large map Map sheet 26 — 103p. 034 Link to large map Map sheet 27 — 103p. 035 Link to large map Map sheet 28 — 103p. 036 Link to large map Map sheet 29 — 103p. 045 Link to large map Map sheet 30 — 103p. 046 Link to large map Map sheet 31 — 103p. 055 Link to large map Map sheet 32 — 103p. 056 Link to large map Appendix a-3 Metes and bounds description of nisg̱a'a lands All those parcels or tracts of crown land situated within the province Of british columbia and lying within the following described area:
Commencing at the post set at the southwest corner of former kincolith Indian reserve no. 14, range 5 coast district, with said post being A point on the northerly natural boundary of nass bay and to be marked Number #1;
Thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly natural Boundary of nass bay to the easterly natural boundary of observatory Inlet;
Thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly natural Boundary of observatory inlet, to post number #2 which is to be set at The intersection of the westerly prolongation of the northerly boundary Of former scowban indian reserve no. 28, cassiar district, with said Natural boundary; Thence easterly to and along the northerly boundary of former scowban Indian reserve no. 28, with the posts set at the northwest and Northeast corners thereof to be marked numbers #3 and #4, respectively, And continuing easterly along the easterly prolongation of said Northerly boundary for a distance of 1773 metres, more or less, to Post number #5 which is to be set on the ridge lying to the west of the Unnamed creek that flows in a general northwesterly direction into the Unnamed creek that passes through the southeast portion of former Scowban indian reserve no. 28 flowing southwesterly into observatory Inlet;
Thence on a bearing of 146°32'36", a distance of 2.24 kilometres, More or less, to post number #6, which is to be set on the northwesterly Boundary of the watershed of kincolith river; Thence northeasterly and easterly along the northwesterly and northerly Boundaries of the watershed of kincolith river to post number #7, which Is to be set on said northerly boundary of the watershed of kincolith River;
Thence on a bearing of 90°51'00", a distance of 5.68 kilometres, More or less, to post number #8, which is to be set on the easterly Boundary of the watershed of anudol creek; Thence on a bearing of 55°00'00", a distance of 3.459 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 41°52'00", a distance of 858 metres; Thence on a bearing of 53°11'00", a distance of 1.255 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 64°30'00", a distance of 1.124 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 62°05'00", a distance of 1.777 kilometres to A post which is to be set and numbered #9; Thence on a bearing of 61°52'00", a distance of 3.064 kilometres to A post which is to be set and numbered #10; Thence on a bearing of 61°52'00", a distance of 3.04 kilometres, More or less, to post number #11 which is to be set on the westerly Boundary of the watershed of chemainuk creek; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundaries of The watersheds of chemainuk and maughlin creeks to post number #12 which Is to be set on the westerly boundary of the watershed of maughlin Creek;
Thence on a bearing of 43°53'00", a distance of 2.32 kilometres, More or less, to post number #13 which is to be set on the most Westerly point of the westerly natural boundary of the small unnamed Lake situated at the headwaters of the unnamed creek that flows Northeasterly through district lot 1657 into kwinatahl river; Thence northerly and northeasterly along the westerly and northwesterly Natural boundary of said unnamed lake and continuing northeasterly along The left natural boundary of said unnamed creek to post number #14 which Is to be set at the junction of the natural boundary of said unnamed Creek with the right natural boundary of kwinatahl river; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southwest Corner of district lot 3098 and to be marked number #15; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southeast Corner of the west half of district lot 3101 and to be marked number #16; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the west half of District lot 3101 to the left natural boundary of kshadin creek; Thence easterly along the left natural boundary of kshadin creek to the Right natural boundary of the unnamed creek that flows southerly into Kshadin creek and that includes taylor lake within its drainage; Thence in a general northerly direction along the right natural boundary Of said unnamed creek, passing through district lots 3101, 3104, 3110, And 3111, to post number #17 which is to be set at the intersection of Said natural boundary with the northerly boundary of district Lot 3111;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 3111 to the Northeast meander post thereof, with said meander post to be marked Number #18;
Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northwest Corner of district lot 3119 and to be marked number #19; Thence on a bearing of 0°00'00" to post number #20 which is to be set at A point lying on a bearing of 270°00'00" from the post set at the Southwest corner of district lot 3160 and to be marked number #21; Thence on a bearing of 90°00'00" to post number #21 set at the southwest Corner of district lot 3160; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 3160 to the Post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #22; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the Westerly boundary of district lot 3124, and to be marked number #23; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the Northerly boundary of district lot 3128, and to be marked number #24; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the Northerly boundary of district lot 3141, and to be marked number #25; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 3141 to Post number #26 which is to be set at the intersection of said northerly Boundary with the right natural boundary of kinskuch river; Thence southeasterly along the right natural boundary of kinskuch river To the right natural boundary of nass river; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the northwest Corner of district lot 4001, and to be marked number #27; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 4001 to the Post set at the southwest corner thereof, and to be marked number #28, With said post being a point on the northerly boundary of district lot 4006; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 4006 to the Post set at northeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #29; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to post number #30, which is to Be set at a point lying on a bearing of 90°00'00", a distance of 325 metres, from the post set at the southeast corner of district Lot 5278, being former kinyug indian reserve no. 57, and to be marked Number #31;
Thence on a bearing of 270°00'00" to post number #31 set at the Southeast corner of district lot 5278; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast Corner of the fractional southwest quarter of district lot 4006, and to Be marked number #32; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the fractional southwest Quarter of district lot 4006 to the post set at the southeast corner Thereof, and to be marked number #33; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the Easterly boundary of district lot 3077, and to be marked number #34; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the southeast Corner of district lot 1763, and to be marked number #35; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast Corner of district lot 1755, and to be marked number #36; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the quarter post set on the Northerly boundary of district lot 1751, and to be marked number #37; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the post set at the northeast Corner of district lot 1747, and to be marked number #38; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 1747 to the Post set at the northeast corner of district lot 1743, and to be marked Number #39;
Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 1743 to Post number #40 which is to be set at the intersection of said easterly Boundary with the left natural boundary of hoadley creek; Thence in a general easterly direction along the left natural boundary Of hoadley creek to the westerly natural boundary of the unnamed lake at The headwaters of hoadley creek; Thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly And easterly natural boundaries of said unnamed lake to post number #41 Which is to be set at the most easterly point thereon; Thence on a bearing of 180°00'00", a distance of 218 metres, more or Less, to post number #42 which is to be set on the southeasterly Boundary of the watershed of hoadley creek; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the southeasterly Boundary of the watershed of hoadley creek and continuing in a general Southerly direction along the ridge that separates those creeks that Flow westerly into dragon lake and seaskinnish creek from those that Flow easterly into kiteen river to post number #43 which is to be set on Said ridge; Thence on a bearing of 181°32'00", a distance of 2.90 kilometres, More or less, to post number #44 which is to be set on the easterly Boundary of the watershed of seaskinnish creek; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of seaskinnish creek to the summit of mount priestly, Being a point thereon; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to post number #45 which is to Be set at the summit of mount hoeft; Thence on a bearing of 270°00'00", a distance of 1.797 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 123°02'00", a distance of 247 metres; Thence on a bearing of 225°46'00", a distance of 857 metres; Thence on a bearing of 141°00'00", a distance of 805 metres; Thence on a bearing of 82°14'00", a distance of 2.106 kilometres to A post which is to be set and numbered #46; Thence on a bearing of 181°48'00", a distance of 889 metres; Thence on a bearing of 242°01'00", a distance of 2.139 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 114°00'00", a distance of 2.03 kilometres, More or less, to post number # 47 which is to be set on the right Natural boundary of fulmar creek; Thence southwesterly along the right natural boundary of fulmar creek to Post #48 which is to be set at the intersection of said natural boundary With a line drawn parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly Distant easterly from the centre line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass Valley road); Thence northwesterly along said line drawn parallel to and 600 metres Perpendicularly distant easterly from the centre line of nisg̱a'a highway To the easterly boundary of district lot 4014; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 4014 to the Post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked post number #49, and continuing southerly along the southerly prolongation of the Easterly boundary of district lot 4014 produced to a point on a line Drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly From the right natural boundary of tseax river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the Right natural boundary of tseax river to the southerly boundary of lot a Of district lot 4012, plan 9176; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of said lot a to the Southwest corner thereof, with said southwest corner being a point on The right natural boundary of tseax river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of Said lot a to the northwest corner thereof, with a portion of the Westerly boundary of said lot a being also the right natural boundary of Tseax river; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said lot a to the most Westerly boundary of former new aiyansh indian reserve no. 1, as shown On plan 65110 recorded in the canada lands surveys records at ottawa; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of former new aiyansh Indian reserve no. 1 to its intersection with a line drawn parallel To and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the right Natural boundary of tseax river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the Right natural boundary of tseax river to post number #50 which is To be set at a point on said line which lies on a bearing of 90° 00' 00" From the post set at the southeast corner of district lot 5275, being Former ksilamisk indian reserve no. 89, and to be marked #51; Thence on a bearing of 270°00'00" to the left natural boundary of tseax River;
Thence northwesterly along the left natural boundary of tseax river to The left natural boundary of nass river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural Boundary of nass river to the northeast corner of district lot 5287, Being former quinogag indian reserve no. 61; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 5287 to the southwest corner thereof, with Said corner being a point on the left natural boundary of nass river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural Boundary of nass river and following the left natural boundary of the River channel lying to the south and east of former amatal indian Reserve no. 5 to the easterly boundary of former amatal indian reserve No. 6;
Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of former amatal indian reserve no. 6 to the easterly Boundary of district lot 1094, being former amaral indian reserve no.s 46 and 47 (undivided); Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 1094 to the southwest corner thereof, with Said corner being a point on the left natural boundary of nass river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the left natural Boundary of nass river, to the post set at the intersection of said Natural boundary with the easterly boundary of that portion of former Gitwinksihlkw indian reserve no. 7 lying to the south of nass river, and With said post to be marked number #52; Thence southerly along said easterly boundary of former gitwinksihlkw Indian reserve no. 7, passing through the post set at the southeast Corner thereof and to be marked number #53, and continuing southerly Along the easterly boundary of district lot 1093, being former gwinaha Indian reserve no. 44, to the post set at the southeast corner thereof, And to be marked number #54; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1093 to the Post set at the southwest corner thereof, and to be marked number #55, With said post being a point on the easterly boundary of former zaulzap Indian reserve no. 29; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of former zaulzap indian reserve no. 29, passing through the Post set at the southeast corner thereof and to be marked number #56, to Post number #57 which is to be set at the intersection of said southerly Boundary with the left natural boundary of zolzap creek; Thence in a general easterly direction along the left natural boundary Of zolzap creek to post number #58 which is to be set at a point on said Natural boundary lying on a bearing of 143°58'00", a distance of 2.02 Kilometres, more or less from the southeast corner of district Lot 1093, being the former gwinaha indian reserve no. 44; Thence on a bearing of 96°14'00", a distance of 695 metres; Thence on a bearing of 68°32'00", a distance of 1.096 kilometres to A post which is to be set and numbered #59; Thence on a bearing of 42°39'00", a distance of 654 metres; Thence on a bearing of 330°37'00", a distance of 497 metres to a Post which is to be set and numbered #60; Thence on a bearing of 90°15'00", a distance of 2.277 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 26°45'00", a distance of 1.083 kilometres to A post which is to be set and numbered #61; Thence on a bearing of 330°15'00", a distance of 500 metres to a Post which is to be set and numbered #62; Thence on a bearing of 69°15'00", a distance of 2.35 kilometres, more or Less, to post number #63 which is to be set on a bearing of 270°00'00", a distance of 2.05 kilometres, from the southwest Corner of district lot 4013, cassiar district; Thence on a bearing of 127°15'00", a distance of 2.500 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 90°15'00", a distance of 1.25 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 115°08'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres, More or less to post number #64 which is to be set at the Intersection of the right natural boundary of an unnamed creek that Flows northeasterly into tseax river with a line drawn parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant southwesterly from the centre Line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly the nass valley road); Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the right natural Boundary of said unnamed creek to a post to be set thereon and numbered #65; Thence on a bearing of 213°04'00", a distance of 3.54 kilometres, More or less, to post number #66 which is to be set on the southerly Boundary of the watershed of vetter creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundaries of The watersheds of vetter and ansedagan creeks to post number #67 which Is to be set on the southerly boundary of the watershed of ansedagan Creek at a point lying on a bearing of 171°37'00", a distance of 8.26 Kilometres, more or less, from the southeast corner of former zaulzap Indian reserve no. 29; Thence on a bearing of 233°27'00", a distance of 2.719 kilometres, To a post to be set and numbered #68; Thence on a bearing of 233°27'00", a distance of 3.58 kilometres, More or less, crossing ksemamaith creek, to post number #69 which is to Be set on the northeasterly boundary of the watershed of ksedin creek; Thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of the watershed Of ksedin creek, a distance of 2.50 kilometres to a post which is To be set thereon and numbered #70; Thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 877 metres to a Post which is to be set and numbered #71; Thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 3.739 kilometres, Crossing ksedin creek, to a post which is to be set and numbered #72; Thence on a bearing of 249°08'00", a distance of 2.47 kilometres, more Or less to post number #73 which is to be set on the easterly Boundary of the watershed of ginlulak creek; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundaries of The watersheds of ginlulak and voshell creeks to the southerly boundary Of the watershed of voshell creek; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of voshell Creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed of ishkheenickh river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the easterly boundary Of the watershed of ishkheenickh river to a post which is to be set Thereon, and numbered #74; Thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 1.164 kilometres To a post to be set and numbered #75; Thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 3.471 kilometres, Crossing ishkheenickh river, to post number #76 which is to be set on a Bearing of 44°52'00" a distance of 1.084 kilometres, from the Northeast corner of district lot 6435, range 5, coast district, being Former lakbelak indian reserve no. 38; Thence on a bearing of 278°44'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres, More or less, to post number #77 which is to be set on the northerly Boundary of the watershed of lachballach creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly boundaries of The watersheds of lachballach creek and kwinamass river to the westerly Boundary of the watershed of burton creek; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of burton Creek to a post which is to be set thereon, and numbered #78; Thence on a bearing of 316°14'00", a distance of 1.63 kilometres, More or less, to post number #79 which is to be set on the right natural Boundary of the northwesterly flowing unnamed tributary of welda creek; Thence northerly and westerly along said right natural boundary and Continuing northerly and westerly along the right natural boundary of Welda creek to the southerly natural boundary of nass bay; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly natural boundary of Nass bay to post number #80 which is to be set at a point on said Natural boundary lying on a bearing of 198°33'00", a distance of 214 metres, more or less, from the northwest corner of district Lot 6822;
Thence on a bearing of 310°38'00", a distance of 7.911 kilometres; Thence northerly in a straight line to the post set at the southwest Corner of former kincolith indian reserve no. 14, range 5 coast District, and which is to be marked number #1, with said post being a Point on the northerly natural boundary of nass bay, and being also the Point of commencement, and with the official copies of plans for all Referenced posts to be filed on deposit with the office of the surveyor General in victoria, british columbia, on completion of survey.
Excepting there out:
Firstly:
Submerged lands; Secondly:
Gingietl ecological reserve no. 115; Thirdly:
The nisg̱a'a highway corridor; and Fourthly:
The lands within the boundaries set out in appendix b.
Appendix a-4 List of former nisg̱a'a indian reserves On nisg̱a'a lands Map no.
I.r. name No.
Legal description Plan*
103i. 083 Ishkseenickh river 36 D.l. 6451, range 5 coast Bc735
103i. 083 Ishkseenickh river 37 D.l. 6452, range 5 coast Bc734
103i. 091 Kincolith
14 Bc137
103i. 092 Black point 11 Bc128
103i. 092 Ishkseenickh
33 D.l. 6924, range 5 coast Bc737
103i. 092 Lachtesk
12a D.l. 3963, range 5 coast Bc674
103i. 092 Lachtesk
12 Bc128
103i. 092 Lakata
41 D.l. 3964, range 5 coast Bc675
103i. 092 Red cliff (red bluff) 13 Bc137
103i. 093 Ishkseenickh river 34 D.l. 6925, range 5 coast Bc742
103i. 093 Ishkseenickh river 35 D.l. 6450, range 5 coast Bc736
103p. 001 Kincolith
14a Bc137
103p. 001 Scowban
28 Bc138
103p. 002 Stoney point (fishery bay) 10 Includes section 3 block 1, range 5 coast Bc128
103p. 003 Andegulay
8 Bc132
103p. 003 Andegulay
8a Bc132
103p. 003 Dachlabah
30 Bc131
103p. 003 Ightkeany
32 District lot 5435, cassiar Bc730
103p. 003 Lachkaltsap
9 Includes lachkaltsap 9a block a of d.l. 7051, cassiar section 2 Block 1 range 5 coast Bc128
Bc165
103p. 013 Anyutawl
31 D.l. 1095, cassiar Bc738
103p. 014 Gitwinksihlkw
7 Bc136
103p. 014 Gwinaha
44 D.l. 1093, cassiar Bc740
103p. 014 Zaulzap
29a Bc165
103p. 014 Zaulzap
29 Bc132
103p. 015 Amaral
46 & 47 D.l. 1094, cassiar Bc739
103p. 015 New aiyansh 1 Block j of d.l. 4012, S.w. 1/4 of d.l. 2626, N.e. 1/4 of d.l. 4012, Lot a of d.l. 4012, plan 9176, n.w. 1/4 of d.l. 2626, except block A, n.e. 1/4 of d.l. 4013 and lot a of d.l 4013, plan prp 14915, All in cassiar 59981, 59982, and 59983 103p. 015 Seaks
60 D.l. 5286, cassiar Bc636
103p. 025 Aiyansh
87 D.l. 5313, cassiar Bc618
103p. 025 Aiyansh
83 D.l. 5309, cassiar Bc622
103p. 025 Aiyansh (kitladamas) 1 Bc136
103p. 025 Amatal
5 Bc136
103p. 025 Amatal
6 Bc136
103p. 025 Gish creek 45 D.l. 5271, cassiar Bc640
103p. 025 Kitladamax
1a Bc136
103p. 025 Ksilamisk
89 D.l. 5275, cassiar Bc626
103p. 025 Kzimeng
82 D.l. 5308, cassiar Bc623
103p. 025 Lakksgamal
86 D.l. 5312, cassiar Bc619
103p. 025 Lakksgamal
88 D.l. 5314, cassiar Bc617
103p. 025 Lakksgamal
85 D.l. 5311, cassiar Bc620
103p. 025 Quinogag
61 D.l. 5287, cassiar Bc634
103p. 025 Sanklksgamal
80 D.l. 5306, cassiar Bc625
103p. 025 Seaks
3 Bc136
103p. 025 Shumal creek 81 D.l. 5307, cassiar Bc624
103p. 025 Shumal creek 84 D.l. 5310, cassiar Bc621
103p. 025 Tsimmanweenclist
2 Bc136
103p. 025 Voilnadamtk
48 D.l. 5274, cassiar Bc627
103p. 035 Anokswok
59 D.l. 5285, cassiar Bc637
103p. 035 Kwinamuck
49 D.l. 3133, cassiar Bc628
103p. 045 Gwindebilk
51 D.l. 5277, cassiar Bc629
103p. 045 Gitquinmiyaue
76 D.l. 5302, cassiar Bc635
103p. 045 Taylor lake 50 D.l. 5276, cassiar Bc639
103p. 046 Gitsheoaksit
68 D.l. 5282, cassiar Bc638
103p. 046 Gwimmauz
52 D.l. 5280, cassiar Bc632
103p. 046 Gwinkbawueast
54 D.l. 5281, cassiar Bc630
103p. 046 Kinyug
57 D.l. 5278, cassiar Bc631
103p. 056 Gwingag
53 D.l. 5279, cassiar Bc633
* these are canada lands survey records on deposit in ottawa.
Appendix b Exceptions to nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-1 Land in the vicinity of red bluff that has been set apart as Indian reserve no. 88 Appendix b-2 Fee simple parcels within the boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-3 Woodlot licence and agriculture leases within the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a lands Appendix b-4 Roads associated with the fee simple parcels referred to in Appendix b-2 Appendix b-1 Land in the vicinity of red bluff that has been Set apart as indian reserve no. 88 Map ref: 1031.092 District lot 3965, range 5 coast district, being red bluff indian Reserve number 88, as shown on plan bc 676 recorded in the canada lands Surveys records at ottawa.
Appendix b-2 Fee simple parcels within the Boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands Map ref:
In range 5 coast district:
103i.091 District lot 2, and In cassiar district:
103p.025 Block a of district lot 453; 103p.025 Block d of district lot 453; 103p.025 District lot 1224; 103p.025 The east 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of the fractional southeast 1/4 Of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The east 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of the fractional southeast 1/4 Of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The fractional north 1/2 of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The southwest 1/4 of the fractional southwest 1/4 of district lot 1713; 103p.025 The north 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of district lot 1718, except Plan prp13808; 103p.025 Lot a of district lot 1718, plan prp13808; 103p.025 The south 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of district lot 1718, except Plans 5830 and 7486; 103p.025 Lot a of district lot 1718, plan 5830; 103p.025 Lot 1 of district lot 1718, plan 7486; 103p.025 Lot 2 of district lot 1718, plan 7486; 103p.025 Lot 3 of district lot 1718, plan 7486; 103p.025 District lot 1720; 103p.025 Block a of the southeast 1/4 of district lot 1722; 103p.025 Block a of district lot 1725; 103p.026 Block a of district lot 1726; 103p.036 Block b of district lot 1726; 103p.025 District lot 1728, except plans 4739, 5164, 5555, 6816, 8537 and 10545; 103p.025 Lot 1 of district lot 1728, plan 4739; 103p.025 Lot 2 of district lot 1728, plan 4739; 103p.025 Lot 5 of district lot 1728, plan 5555; 103p.025 Lot 6 of district lot 1728, plan 6816; 103p.025 Lot 7 of district lot 1728, plan 6816; 103p.025 Lot a of district lots 1728 and 1729, plan 8537; 103p.025 Lot 1 of district lot 1728, plan 10545; 103p.025 District lot 1729, except plans 8537 and 9553; 103p.025 Lot a of district lot 1729, plan 9553; 103p.025 Block a of district lot 1730; 103p.025 Block b of district lot 2625; 103p.025 Block c of district lot 2625; 103p.025 Block a of district lot 2626; 103p.015 The southeast 1/4 of district lot 2627, except any portion of the Right of way of the dominion telegraph line having a width of 100 Feet which may lie within the boundaries of the said land; 103p.015 The fractional southwest 1/4 of district lot 2627, except thereout The right of way of the dominion telegraph line; 103p.025 The north 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of district lot 3051; 103p.025 The south 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of district lot 3051, except Plan 12661;
103p.025 Block a of district lot 3051; 103p.025 District lot 3053; 103p.035 The southeast 1/4 of district lot 3061; 103p.035 The southwest 1/4 of district lot 3061; 103p.035 The fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 3063; 103p.025 The east 1/2 of district lot 3080; 103p.046 The fractional southwest 1/4 of district lot 4006; 103p.025 The southeast 1/4 of district lot 4011, except plan 5249; 103p.025 The southwest 1/4 of district lot 4011, except plans 10005 and 12223; 103p.025 Lot 1 of district lot 4011, plan 10005; 103p.025 Lot a of district lot 4011, plan 12223; 103p.025 The northeast 1/4 of district lot 4011; 103p.025 The northwest 1/4 of district lot 4011; 103p.015 The fractional northwest 1/4 of district lot 4012, except block a And plan 9176; 103p.025 Block a of district lot 4012; 103p.025 Block b of district lot 4012; 103p.025 Block c of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block d of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block e of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block f of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block g of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block h of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block i of district lot 4012; 103p.015 The fractional southeast 1/4 of district lot 4013; and 103p.025 District lot 4015, except any portion of the right of way of the Dominion telegraph line having a width of 100 feet which may lie Within the boundaries of these lands.
Appendix b-2 Schedule 1
Fee simple parcels with a right to access within the boundaries of Nisg̱a'a lands as set out in paragraphs 25 and 27 of the access Chapter.
Map ref:
In cassiar district:
103p.025 The east 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of the fractional southeast 1/4 Of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The east 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of the fractional southeast 1/4 Of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The fractional north 1/2 of district lot 1712; 103p.025 The southwest 1/4 of the fractional southwest 1/4 of district lot 1713; 103p.015 The southeast 1/4 of district lot 2627, except any portion of the Right of way of the dominion telegraph line having a width of 100 Feet which may lie within the boundaries of the said land; 103p.025 District lot 3053; 103p.035 The southeast 1/4 of district lot 3061; 103p.035 The southwest 1/4 of district lot 3061; 103p.035 The fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 3063; 103p.025 The east 1/2 of district lot 3080; 103p.025 Block b of district lot 4012; 103p.025 Block c of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block d of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block e of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block f of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block g of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block h of district lot 4012; 103p.015 Block i of district lot 4012; and 103p.025 District lot 4015, except any portion of the right of way of the Dominion telegraph line having a width of 100 feet which may lie Within the boundaries of these lands.
Appendix b-3 Woodlot licence and agriculture leases Within the boundaries of nisg̱a'a lands Sketch 1
– woodlot licence 141; Sketch 2
– agriculture lease 631313 over block c of district lot 453, cassiar District; and Sketch 3
– agriculture lease 633080 over block a and the northwest 1/4 district Lot 3063, cassiar district.
Appendix b-4 Roads associated with the fee simple parcels Referred to in appendix b - 2 Firstly:
Historic and travelled trails which were excluded from the estate In fee simple granted by british columbia in respect of the lands Listed in appendix b-2; and Secondly:
The following roads within cassiar district:
Spencer road Within the s.w. 1/4 of district lot 4011; Phillips landing road Within the w 1/2 of district lot 4011 and the e 1/2 of district Lot 1712;
Hughan/tankers road Within district lots 1728 and 1729, and a strip of land running Between nisg̱a'a highway and the westerly boundary of district lot 1224 bounded on the north by district lot 1728 and on the south by Block a of district lot 453; Hydro road Within the s.w. 1/4 of district lot 1718; Irene meadows road Within the s.w. 1/4 of district lot 1718; Airstrip road Within block a of district lot 1730; Tillicum lodge road That portion lying to the southwest of the junction of tillicum Lodge road with the grease trail forest service road; and 477.0 square metre road Dedicated on plan 12223 and lying within the s.w. 1/4 of district Lot 4011.
Appendix c Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-1 Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-2 Applicable forms of document for existing interests listed in Part 1 of appendix c-1 Appendix c-3 Applicable forms of document for public utility transmission and Distribution facilities listed in part 2 of appendix c-1 Appendix c-4 Applicable forms of document for roads listed in part 3 of Appendix c-1 Appendix c-5 Certificates of possession issued by canada on former nisg̱a'a Indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-6 Persons with an interest authorized by band council resolution On former nisg̱a'a indian reserves on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-7 Angling guide licences, trapline licences and guide outfitter Licence wholly or partially on nisg̱a'a lands Appendix c-1 Interests on nisg̱a'a lands Part 1
Existing interests Part 2
Public utility transmission and distribution facilities Part 3
Roads
Part 1 of appendix c-1 Existing interests Interest holder Facility
Location
Previous
Document
Nisg̱a'a replacement document Bc tel Communication site Blk. b of d.l. 2626, cassiar District (103p.025) 632928 bc Licence of occupation for communication site with road access Communication site with buried power cable – ishkeenickh site South of La
X
Galts'ap (103p.003) 633669 bc Licence of occupation for communication site with utility access Communication site – kwinyarh Along nass river (103p.014) 633670 bc Licence of occupation for communication site with road access and Utility access Communication site – aiyansh site Near new Aiyansh (103p.025) 633171 bc Licence of occupation for communication site Communication site On former Kincolith i.r. 14 (103i.091) 89339 can Licence of occupation for telephone exchange Communication site On former La
X
Galts'ap i.r. 9 (103p.003) 87527 can Licence of occupation for telephone exchange British columbia Ministry of Forests
Experimental plots Near se corner of former andequlay i.r. 8 (103p.003) and in d.l.
1734, cassiar district (103p.036) Exp00702 blocks 4 and 5 bc Licence of occupation for forestry Experimental plots Ministry of Transportation and highways Communication site Located on 103p.003 File 6406499 bc Licence of occupation for provincial Communication site British columbia Hydro and power authority Communication site Near maughlin cr. (103p.035) 633793 bc Licence of occupation for hydro Communication site Canada
Department of fisheries and oceans (canadian coast guard) Navigation
Beacon
Leading point (103i.091) Notation of interest bc Licence of occupation for a navigational light Navigation
Beacon
Fort point (103i.091) Notation of interest bc Licence of occupation for a navigational light Navigation
Beacon
Mill bay (103i.091) Notation of interest bc Licence of occupation for a navigational light Environment
Canada
Hydrometric station and cableway On former old aiyansh i.r. (103p.025) 28-2 Permit can (file 70-444) Licence of occupation for a hydrometric Station
Hydrometric station Near ansedagan creek (103p.014) Licence of occupation for a hydrometric Station
Canadian
Broadcasting
Corporation
Communication site In d.l. 2626, Cassiar district (103p.025) 2659 bc Licence of occupation for communication site and road access Gitlakdamix development Corporation
Store and Laundry
Lot 19-6 in former new aiyansh i.r. 1 (103p.025) 85074 can Lease
N.d. hayduk/ C.a. hayduk Owners of lot a of d.l. 1729, Cassiar district, plan 9553 Waterworks
Source – hughan brook In d.l. 1718, Cassiar district (103p.025) Permit 16666 bc ( Water act ) Permit of occupation for waterworks N.d. hayduk (p.h. hugan's executor) owner of the s 1/2 of the S.w. 1/4 of D.l. 1718, Cassiar district, except plans 5830 and 7486 Waterworks
Source – hughan brook In d.l. 1718, Cassiar district (103p.025) Permit 20062 bc ( Water act ) Permit of occupation for waterworks Royal canadian mounted police Communication site Near kwinamuck lake (103p.035) 632776 bc Licence of occupation for communication site Communication site Near ginlulak creek (103p.003) 634208 bc Licence of occupation for communication site The board of school trustees of school district no. 92 (nisg̱a'a) School site Lot 28 in former gitwinksihlkw i.r. 7 (103p. 014) Pc 1994-685
Section 53(1)
Lease can Lease
Sim gan forest corporation Camp and office Near kwinatahl River (103p.045) Sup 19897
Bc
Special use permit for forestry operations Dryland sort Near kwinatahl River (103p.035) Sup 22417
Bc
Special use permit for forestry operations Skeena cellulose inc Log sort and dump Near ginlulak (103p.003) Sup 9764 bc Special use permit for forestry operations Camp and office Near se corner of d.l. 2944, Cassiar (103p.013) Sup 16189 bc Special use permit for forestry operations M.w. spisak, owner of d.l. 1729, cassiar District, except plans 8537 and 9553 Waterworks source – hughan brook Pt of d.l. 1718, cassiar district (103p.025) Permit 20064 bc ( Water act ) Permit of occupation for waterworks Tok
Communications
Communication site In d.l. 2626, Cassiar district (103p.025) 633073 bc Licence of occupation for communication site and road access Part 2 of appendix c-1 Public utility transmission and distribution facilities Interest holder Facility
General location Previous document Nisg̱a'a replacement document British columbia hydro and power authority Transmission line no.s 1l387 and 1l381 Running from:
Firstly:
The
Southerly
Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands near fulmar creek to the aiyansh Sub-station (block a of d.l. 1726, cassiar district); and Secondly:
Aiyansh sub-station to the northwesterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands Near kwinatahl within d.l. 1661, cassiar district, and Thirdly:
Aiyansh sub-station to the northeasterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands Within d.l. 1751, cassiar district. all as generally depicted on Appendix a-2.
1634 bc 634078 bc Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to British columbia hydro and power authority (hydro) ( Right of way ) Transmission line Running between nisg̱a'a highway and block b of 2626, cassiar District
2087 bc Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Right of way ) Transmission line Running from aiyansh Sub-station to the s.e. 1/4 of d.l. 4011, cassiar District and Continuing in a general Southwesterly direction, passing through the village of la X
Galts'ap and former i.r.s, to gingolx, with a feeder line to Gitwinksihlkw.
2116 bc 634145 bc Permit 7491 can Permit 7493 can 633472 bc Permit 56112 can Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Right of way ) Transmission line Running from aiyansh Sub-station to block b of d.l. 1726, cassiar District, plan 7237 2116 bc Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Right of way ) Distribution lines Within the village of new aiyansh Permit
70-2156 can Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Licence
) Distribution lines Within the village of la X
Galts'ap Permit x16157 and 54679 can Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Licence
) Distribution lines Within the village of gingolx Permit no. 56112 Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Licence
) Distribution lines Within the village of gitwinksihlkw Permit x16158 Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Licence
) Other transmission and distribution facilities Nisg̱a'a lands other than within hydro rights of way areas, the Above noted Villages or areas in respect of which hydro has been granted Rights under a separate instrument in appendix c Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to Hydro (
Licence
) Bc tel Distribution line On former La
X
Galts'ap i.r. 9 80067, 81439 and 104253 can Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to bc tel ( Right of way ) Tele-
Communication lines Within the village of new aiyansh Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to bc tel ( Licence
) Tele-
Communication lines Within the village of la X
Galts'ap Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to bc tel ( Licence
) Tele-
Communication lines Within the village of gingolx Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to bc Tel (
Licence
) Tele-
Communication lines Within the village of gitwinksihlkw Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to bc tel ( Licence
) Other
Distribution and tele- Communication facilities Nisg̱a'a lands other than within bc tel's right of way area, the Above noted Villages or areas in respect of which bc tel has been granted Rights under a separate instrument in appendix c Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to bc tel ( Licence
) Part 3 of appendix c-1 Roads
Secondary provincial roads:
Rights of way granted to british columbia as represented by The minister of transportation and highways Road no. 183 – between that portion of nisg̱a'a highway running through the south 1/2 Of district lot 4011, cassiar district and the northerly boundary of the Northeast 1/4 of district lot 4011.
Map 103p. 025 Landfill road – between nisg̱a'a highway and the easterly boundary of district lot 1714, cassiar district.
Map 103p. 025 Road no. 179 (east portion) – between nisg̱a'a highway and the westerly boundary of district lot 1718.
Map 103p. 025 Road no. 179 (west portion) – between nisg̱a'a highway and the left natural boundary of nass river, Passing through district lots 1717, 1715, 1719, 1720, unsurveyed crown Land, and former kitladamas indian reserve no.1.
Map 103p. 025 Road no. 325 – between nisg̱a'a highway and the grease trail forest service road (fsr 8672.01) and passing through block b of district lot 1726, block a of District lot 1730 and block a of district lot 3051.
Maps 103p. 025 and 026 Road access to district lot 4015, cassiar district – between road no. 179 (west portion) and the easterly boundary of the District lot.
Map 103p. 025 Road access to district lot 3061, cassiar district – between the grease trail forest service road and the southerly Boundary of the district lot, and passing through district lots 3058, 3054, and 3055.
Map 103p. 035 Rights of way granted to british columbia as represented By the minister of forests R04088 – section a tchitin river – running between junction with nass forest service road 942-7876.03 in The east 1/2 of district lot 3128, cassiar district, to its intersection With the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 3129, cassiar District.
Tchitin road – section 1 – running between ro4088 and the northerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands and Being the most southerly spur within the northwest 1/4 of district lot 3124, cassiar district.
Tchitin road – section 2 – running between ro4088 and the northerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands and Being the most northerly spur within the northwest 1/4 of district lot 3124 cassiar district.
Tchitin road – section 3 – running between ro4088 and the northerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands and Being the most southerly spur within district lot 3128, cassiar District.
Tchitin road – section 4 – running between ro4088 and the northerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands and Being the most northerly spur within district lot 3128, cassiar District.
Map sheet 103p.056 R07185 – taylor lake road – running between junction with nass forest service road 942-07876.04, Within the northeast 1/4 of district lot 3104, cassiar district, and its Intersection with the northerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within District lot 3111, cassiar district.
Map 103p.045 R07521 – section a south kshadin – running between junction with special use permit 9228 within district Lot 1661, cassiar district, and its intersection with the boundary of Nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 3098, cassiar district.
Map 103p.045 R07694 – sections a, b and c – ksedin creek – Running from nisg̱a'a highway in a general southeasterly direction to the Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands in the general vicinity of ksedin creek.
Maps 103p.003 and 103p.004 R07708 – sections a and b – beaupre road Section a – running from the boundary of nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park in a General southerly direction to the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands.
Section b – partially constructed with approximately 2.3 kms within nisg̱a'a lands Requiring construction.
Map 103p.015 R07816 – sections a, b, c, c-1 and d – ishkheenickh road – Running from nisg̱a'a highway in a general southwesterly direction, with Portions following the left and right banks of the ishkheenickh river.
Maps 103i.083, 103i.093 and 103p.003 R07817 – section a – ksedin creek – running from nisg̱a'a highway in a general easterly direction to the Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands in the general vicinity of ksemanaith creek.
Maps 103p.003, 103p.004 and 103p.014 R07818 – sections a and b – hoadley creek road Section a – running from the junction with the nass forest service road in District lot 1731, cassiar district, to the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands in The vicinity of hoadley creek.
Section b – running from ro7818 – section a easterly to the boundary of nisg̱a'a Lands and within district lots 1743 and 1744.
Maps 103p.026 and 103p.036 R07889 – sections a, b, and c – north hoodoo road Section a – running from the junction with the nass forest service road near the Southerly boundary of district lot 1751, cassiar district, and its Junction with the nass forest service road within district lot 4006, Cassiar district; Section b – running between section a of north hoodoo road and the easterly Boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 1751, cassiar district; Section c – running in a northeasterly direction between section a of north hoodoo Road and the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 1759, cassiar district; Jackpine – section 1 – running northeasterly from section a of north hoodoo road to the Easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 1763, cassiar District;
Jackpine – section 2 – running in a northerly direction between section a of north hoodoo Road and the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 1772, cassiar district; and Jackpine – section 3 – running northeasterly from section a of north hoodoo road to the Easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands within district lot 3079, cassiar District.
Maps 103p.036 and 103p.046 Ro10521 – section a – branch 5000 – running in a general southeasterly direction between nisg̱a'a highway And the southerly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands.
Maps 103p.003 and 103p.004 Fsr 8672.01 – section 01 – grease trail – running from junction with road no. 325 within block a of district lot 1730, cassiar district, to the northerly boundary of the bc hydro.right Of way, plan 5612, which lies within district lot 3063, cassiar District.
Maps 103p.025 and 103p.035 Fsr 7876.03 – section 03 (nass-kinskuch) – running northwesterly between sections of the boundary of nisg̱a'a Lands from the northerly boundary of district lot 4006 to the northerly Boundary of district lot 3128, cassiar district; Section 1
– running northeasterly from nass-kinskuch fsr within the north 1/2 of District lot 3125, cassiar district; Section 3
– running in a general northerly direction from kinskuch-section 4 Within the south 1/2 of district lot 3125, cassiar district; and Section 4
– running in a general northeasterly direction from nass-kinskuch frs Within the south 1/2 of district lot 3125, cassiar district.
Maps 103p.046 and 103p.056 Fsr 7876.04 – section 04 (nass -kwinatahl) – runs southwesterly from its junction with fsr 7876.03 to the Northwesterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands crossing the boundary within the East 1/2 of district lot 3104, cassiar district.
Maps 103p.045 and 103p.046 S.u.p 9228 kshadin to alice arm (amax of canada) – running in a general southwesterly direction from kshadin creek, Within district lot 3101, to the southerly boundary of district lot 1661, cassiar district. this road straddles the boundary of nisg̱a'a Lands.
Maps 103p.035 and 103p.045 North hoodoo access road 1 – running in a general northeasterly direction between north hoodoo road And the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district lots 1759 And 1763, cassiar district.
North hoodoo access road 2 – running in a general northeasterly direction between north hoodoo road And the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district lot 1768, Cassiar district.
North hoodoo access road 3 – running in a general northeasterly direction between north hoodoo road And the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district lot 1772, Cassiar district.
North hoodoo access road 4 – running in a general northeasterly direction between north hoodoo road And the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district lot 4003, Cassiar district.
Secondary provincial road extensions North hoodoo access road – site 1 extension – of the two locations identified only one is to be selected by british Columbia running in a general northeasterly direction between north Hoodoo road and the easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district Lot 1768, cassiar district.
North hoodoo access road – site 2 extension – running in an easterly direction between north hoodoo road and the Easterly boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, within district lots 1777 and 3077, Cassiar district.
Private roads:
Private easements Access to woodlot licence 141 William knight Ref. map 103p.035 Access to fractional n.e. 1/4 of d.l. 3063, cassiar district Nass cattle company ltd. inc. #346159 Ref. map 103p.035 Access to d.l. 3053, cassiar district E. fleenor/ c.e. fleenor/ d. dimaggio Ref. map 103p.025 Access to s.e. 1/4 of d.l. 2627, cassiar district Hw riemer Ref. map 103p.015 British columbia hydro and power Authority (hydro) access roads:
Roads appurtenant to public utility works Road no. 1 – Enters nisg̱a'a lands at fulmar creek and continues in a general Northwesterly direction, passing through unsurveyed nisg̱a'a land, District lots 4014 and 2627, to the northerly boundary of district lot 2627, using a main logging road and spurs. includes four separate access Branches.
Maps 103p.015 and 103p.016 Road no. 2 – Trail between block b of district lot 2626, and the main hydro line in The vicinity of the southerly boundary of district lot 2625.
Map 103p.025 Road no. 3 – An existing road between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way near The southerly boundary of district lot 1722.
Map 103p.025 Road no. 4 – An existing road between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way in the Northwest 1/4 of district lot 1723.
Map. 103p.025 Road no. 5 – An existing road between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way lying South of block a of district lot 1726.
Map 103p.026 Road no. 6 – An existing road between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way in the Southeast corner of district lot 1730.
Map 103p.026 Road no. 7 – Access spur between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way in the Vicinity of the southerly boundary of district lot 1734.
Map 103p.036 Road no. 8 – An existing trail between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way in The vicinity of the northerly boundary of district lot 1734.
Map 103p.036 Road no. 9 – Access road between nisg̱a'a highway and hydro's right of way running Southwesterly from the highway passing through district lots 1746, 1742, 1741, and 1738 along decommissioned roads. includes one access spur.
Map 103p.036 Road no. 10 – Access road between grease trail forest service road and hydro's right Of way, running in a northeasterly direction within district lot 3063.
Map 103p.036 Road no. 11 – Access road between grease trail forest service road and hydro's right Of way, running in a westerly direction within district lot 3066.
Map 103p.035 Road no. 12 – Access road between s.u.p. 9228 (kshadin to alice arm) and hydro's right Of way, running is a southerly direction passing through district lot 166i along former ro6419.
Map 103p.035 Road no. 13 – From nisg̱a'a highway to the easterly boundary of block b of district lot 1726, cassiar district.
Map 103p.025 and 103p. 026 Road no. 14 – From nisg̱a'a highway to block b of district lot 2626, cassiar district.
Map 103p.025 Appendix c-2 Applicable forms of document for existing Interests listed in part 1 of appendix c-1 Document 1
Licence of occupation for communication site; Document 2
Licence of occupation for provincial communication site; Document 3
Licence of occupation for communication site with utility Access;
Document 4
Licence of occupation for communication site with road access; Document 5
Licence of occupation for communication site with road access And utility access; Document 6
Licence of occupation for hydro communication site; Document 7
Licence of occupation for forestry experimental plots; Document 8
Licence of occupation for a hydrometric station; Document 9
Licence of occupation for a navigational light; Document 10
Licence of occupation for telephone exchange; Document 11
Permit of occupation for waterworks; Document 12
Special use permit for forestry operations; and Document 13
Leases (not published).
Appendix c-2 Document 1
License of occupation for communication site This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing And maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road, Antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site Plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal description Schedule (the "civil infrastructure").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day
Of   , 199    (the "commencement date") Unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land
The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land by executing the new license Contained in the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of · ; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; and (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the then- Existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect to The payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year, (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies, or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on The land erected or placed on the land by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the owner may, in its sole Discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to The owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3; and (n) on request of the owner, to provide to the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land To an affiliate (as defined in the Company act, Rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted herein And the licensee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days Of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may immediately Cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with Respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable Opinion of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the Purposes of the licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of Moving the licensee and its structures and improvements to the new Location. if the licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved To the new location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable Costs of constructing new improvements on the new location. as full Compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee May incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and Loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and Failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant To article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply To the new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land (collectively, The "improvements") that remains unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any improvements pursuant to Section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the licensee Shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1 the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1 this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests In the land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 2
License of occupation for provincial communication site This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Her majesty the queen in right of the province of british columbia , as represented by the minister of transportation and highways of Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the Covenants of the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing And maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road, Antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site Plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal description Schedule (the "civil infrastructure").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land
The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license of the land by executing the new license contained in the Notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner a license fee of $1.00 for the Entire term.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (b) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (c) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (d) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (e) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land And the amount of such losses, damages, costs and liabilities shall be Payable to the owner immediately; (f) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(g) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (h) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on The land erected or placed on the land by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting The owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or Subrogation against the owner) against claims for personal injury, Death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising From any accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except that so long as the licensee is her majesty the Queen in right of the province of british columbia or a british columbia Crown corporation, the owner will waive the requirements of this Subsection on the delivery to the owner of confirmation that the Licensee is self insured; (k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (j) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land To a british columbia crown corporation provided that the licensee gives Written notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout Then, and in any such case, the owner may cancel this license and, Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any fixtures to the land shall Become, at the discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted herein And the licensee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days Of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may immediately Cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with Respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable Opinion of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the Purposes of the licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of Moving the licensee and its structures and improvements to the new Location. if the licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved To the new location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable Costs of constructing new improvements on the new location. as full Compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee May incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and Loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and Failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant To article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply To the new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any buildings, machinery, plant, Equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the land (collectively, the "improvements") that remain unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license Pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is Reasonably required because of the nature of the improvements or because Of other constraints beyond the control of the licensee, including Weather, and provided that the licensee is proceeding diligently and Continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal Will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of This license) Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred By the owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $1.00 and all rights, privileges, benefits And interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. so long as the licensee is her majesty the Queen in right of the province of british columbia or a british columbia Crown corporation, the owner will waive the requirements of this Section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that Address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests In the land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (f) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 3
License of occupation for communication site With utility access This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached And entitled "legal description"; and Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license over a Portion (the "utility area") of lands described in the schedule attached And entitled "utility license" for the purpose of providing a powerline To the land; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee:
(a) a license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of Constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building, Tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown In the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal Description schedule (the "civil infrastructure"); and (b) a license to enter on and use the utility area, with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the Licensee, to construct, instal, operate, maintain, repair, replace and Use powerlines and all ancillary works on the utility area as reasonably Required to provide power to the land (the licenses in subsections 1.1 (a) and (b) are collectively "the license").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the day of , 199 (the "commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land and the utility area The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land and the utility area by Executing the new license contained in the notice and delivering it to The owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of · ; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect To the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year, (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies, or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or to the utility area or any of the licensee's improvements Thereon (the "realty taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land or the utility area And improvements situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or the utility area or do or suffer to be done Thereon by its employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for Whom the licensee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a Nuisance to the owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land or the utility area And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land and the utility area in a safe, clean and sanitary Condition satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, Clean and sanitary any portion of the land and the utility area or any Improvement thereon that the owner, acting reasonably, may direct by Notice in writing to the licensee; (h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land or the utility area at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land and the utility area in accordance with The provisions of this license including those set forth in the schedule Attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land and the utility Area to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land and the utility area all above-ground Buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all other Improvements to or things on the land or the utility area erected or Placed on the land or the utility area by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land and the utility area to the Satisfaction of the owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land or the utility area to an amount not Less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the owner may, in its Sole discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the Delivery to the owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land or the Utility area under a subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, Or who is otherwise authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy The land or the utility area, in accordance with section 9.3; and (n) on request of the owner, to provide to the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land or the utility area without the prior written consent Of the owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land And the utility area to an affiliate (as defined in the Company act, Rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land and utility area shall become, at the Discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land or the utility area for the Purposes permitted herein and the licensee does not recommence its use Of the land or the utility area within 180 days of receipt of written Notice from the owner, the owner may immediately cancel that portion of This license and the rights herein granted that relates to the land or The utility area as the case may be.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land or the utility area for a Public purpose, the owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 Days written notice to the licensee, cancel this license and the rights Herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land, No more than 5% of the whole of the utility area, or no more than 5% of The combined area, as the case may be.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or the utility area, as the case may be, or to a location on Other land immediately adjacent to the land or the utility area (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the licensee's structures And improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of the Licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the new location. if the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable costs of Constructing new improvements on the new location. as full compensation For all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee may incur in Connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of Business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply to The new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License, in whole or with respect to the utility area only, and Thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will, in whole or With respect to the utility area only, terminate 180 days after the date Of receipt by the owner of such written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land or the utility Area (collectively, the "improvements") that remains unremoved from the Land or the utility area:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land or the Utility area and the licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for All costs incurred by the owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land or the utility area and the owner may, for any purpose, grant To others interests in the land or the utility area, or rights to enter On or use or occupy the land or the utility area, or may otherwise Authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land or the Utility area, so long as the grant or authorization does not materially Affect the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of Whether a grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights Hereunder shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the Owner, by written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to Others to use or occupy the land or the utility area, such grant will Contain a provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this license Obligating the new grantee to keep the land or the utility area in a Safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 4
License of occupation for communication Site with road access This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________ , 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached And entitled "legal description"; and Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to pass And repass over a portion (the "access area") of lands described in the Schedule attached and entitled "access license" for the purpose of Obtaining access to the land; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee:
(a) a license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of Constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building, Tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown In the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal Description schedule (the "civil infrastructure"); and (b) a license to pass and repass over the access area, with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the Licensee, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, Roads and bridges on the access area as reasonably required to obtain Access to the land (the licenses in subsections 1.1 (a) and (b) are Collectively "the license").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land and the access area The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land and the access area by Executing the new license contained in the notice and delivering it to The owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of · ; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect To the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year, (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies, or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or to the access area or any of the licensee's improvements Thereon (the "realty taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land or the access area And improvements situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or the access area or do or suffer to be done Thereon by its employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for Whom the licensee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a Nuisance to the owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land or the access area And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land and the access area in a safe, clean and sanitary Condition satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, Clean and sanitary any portion of the land and the access area or any Improvement thereon that the owner, acting reasonably, may direct by Notice in writing to the licensee; (h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land or the access area at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land and the access area in accordance with The provisions of this license including those set forth in the schedule Attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land and the access Area to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land and the access area all above-ground Buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all other Improvements to or things on the land or the access area erected or Placed on the land or the access area by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land and the access area to the Satisfaction of the owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land or the access area to an amount not Less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the owner may, in its Sole discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the Delivery to the owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land or the Access area under a subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, Or who is otherwise authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy The land or the access area, in accordance with section 9.3; and (n) on request of the owner, to provide to the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land or the access area without the prior written consent of The owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land And the access area to an affiliate (as defined in the Company act , rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land and access area shall become, at the Discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land or the access area for the Purposes permitted herein and the licensee does not recommence its use Of the land or the access area within 180 days of receipt of written Notice from the owner, the owner may immediately cancel that portion of This license and the rights herein granted that relates to the land or The access area as the case may be.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land or the access area for a Public purpose, the owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 Days written notice to the licensee, cancel this license and the rights Herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land, Or no more than 5% of the whole of the access area, or no more than 5% Of the combined area, as the case may be.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or the access area, as the case may be, or to a location on Other land immediately adjacent to the land or the access area (the "new Location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion of the Licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the licensee's structures And improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of the Licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the new location. if the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable costs of Constructing new improvements on the new location. as full compensation For all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee may incur in Connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of Business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply to The new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License, in whole or with respect to the access area only, and Thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will, in whole or With respect to the access area only, terminate 180 days after the date Of receipt by the owner of such written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land or the access Area (collectively, the "improvements") that remains unremoved from the Land or the access area:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land or the Access area and the licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for All costs incurred by the owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land or the access area and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to Others interests in the land or the access area, or rights to enter on Or use or occupy the land or the access area, or may otherwise authorize Other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land or the access area, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land or the access area, such grant will contain a Provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the New grantee to keep the land or the access area in a safe, clean and Sanitary condition satisfactory to the owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 5
License of occupation for communication site With road access and utility access This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; and Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to pass And repass over a portion (the "access area") of lands described in the Schedule attached and entitled "access license" for the purpose of Obtaining access to the land; Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license over a Portion (the "utility area") of lands described in the schedule attached And entitled "utility license" for the purpose of providing a powerline To the land; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee:
(a) a license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of Constructing and maintaining for communication purposes any building, Tower, road, antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown In the site plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal Description schedule (the "civil infrastructure"); and (b) a license to pass and repass over the access area, with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the Licensee, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, Roads and bridges on the access area as reasonably required to obtain Access to the lands; and (c) a license to enter on and use the utility area, with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by the Licensee, to construct, instal, operate, maintain, repair, replace and Use powerlines and all ancillary works on the utility area as reasonably Required to provide power to the land (the licenses in subsections 1.1 (a), (b), and (c) are collectively "the license").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement date") unless cancelled in accordance With article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land and the access area and the utility area The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land and the access area and the Utility area by executing the new license contained in the notice and Delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of · ; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect To the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year, (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies, or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (a) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land, the access area or the utility area or any of the Licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty taxes") that the licensee Is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land, the access area or The utility area and improvements situate thereon, or their use and Occupation;
(d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land, the access area or the utility area or do or Suffer to be done thereon by its employees, contractors, agents, Invitees or anyone for whom the licensee is responsible at law anything That may be or become a nuisance to the owner or to the occupiers of Adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land, the access area or the Utility area And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land, the access area and the utility area in a safe, Clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the owner acting Reasonably, and to make safe, clean and sanitary any portion of the Land, the access area and the utility area or any improvement thereon That the owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to The licensee; (h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land, the access area or the utility area at any time to examine its Condition;
(i) to use and occupy the land, the access area and the utility area in Accordance with the provisions of this license including those set forth In the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land, the access Area and the utility area to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land, the access area and the utility area all Above-ground buildings, machinery, plant equipment and apparatus and all Other improvements to or things on the land, the access area or the Utility area erected or placed on the land, the access area or the Utility area by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land, the access area and the Utility area to the satisfaction of the owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land, the access area or the utility area To an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the Owner may, in its sole discretion, waive the requirements of this Subsection on the delivery to the owner of evidence that the licensee is Self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land, the access Area or the utility area under a subsequent right or interest granted by The owner, or who is otherwise authorized by the owner to enter on or Use or occupy the land, the access area or the utility area in Accordance with section 9.3; and (n) on request of the owner, to provide to the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land, the access area or the utility area without the prior Written consent of the owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably Withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land, The access area or the utility area to an affiliate (as defined in the Company act, Rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land, access area and the utility area Shall become, at the discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land, the access area or the utility Area for the purposes permitted herein and the licensee does not Recommence its use of the land, the access area or the utility area Within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner May immediately cancel that portion of this license and the rights Herein granted that relates to the land, the access area or the utility Area as the case may be.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land, the access area or the Utility area for a public purpose, the owner may, in accordance with Section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice to the licensee, cancel this License and the rights herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of The whole of the land, no more than 5% of the whole of the access area, No more than 5% of the whole of the utility area, or no more than 5% of The combined area, as the case may be.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land, the access area or the utility area as the case may be, or To a location on other land immediately adjacent to the land, the access Area or the utility area (the "new location"). the new location must, in The reasonable opinion of the licensee, be of sufficient size to Accommodate the licensee's structures and improvements and be equally Suitable for the purposes of the licensee. the owner will pay for any Reasonable costs of moving the licensee and its structures and Improvements to the new location. if the licensee's structures and Improvements cannot be moved to the new location, the owner will pay to The licensee the reasonable costs of constructing new improvements on The new location. as full compensation for all other costs, expenses and Damages that the licensee may incur in connection with the relocation, Including disruption and loss of business, the parties shall agree on a Lump sum payment and failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to Arbitration pursuant to article 10. all other terms and conditions of This license will apply to the new location for the balance of the Original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License, in whole or with respect to the access area only or to the Utility area only, and thereafter the license and the rights herein Granted will, in whole or with respect to the access area only, Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land, the access area Or the utility area (collectively, the "improvements") that remains Unremoved from the land, the access area or the utility area:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land, the Access area or the utility area and the licensee shall, on demand, Compensate the owner for all costs incurred by the owner respecting Their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land, the access area or the utility area and the owner may, for any Purpose, grant to others interests in the land, the access area or the Utility area or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, the access Area or the utility area or may otherwise authorize other persons to Enter on or use or occupy the land, the access area or the utility area So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, the access area or the utility area such grant will Contain a provision identical to subsection 4.1 (g) of this license Obligating the new grantee to keep the land, the access area or the Utility area in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 6
License of occupation for hydro communication site This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants, of the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing And maintaining for communication purposes any building, tower, road, Antennae, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site Plan and site elevation drawing forming part of the legal description Schedule (the "civil infrastructure").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land
The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land by executing the new license Contained in the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of · ; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect To the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies; or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately, but not for an action against the owner based on Nuisance or the rule Rylands v. fletcher Unless the licensee was negligent; (g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on The land erected or placed on the land by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; provided, except, that the owner may, in its sole Discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to The owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3; (n) on request of the owner, to provide the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land To an affiliate (as defined in the Company act, Rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted herein And the licensee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days Of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may immediately Cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with Respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the Land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable Opinion of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the Licensee's structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the Purposes of the licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of Moving the licensee and its structures and improvements to the new Location. if the licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved To the new location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable Costs of constructing new improvements on the new location. as full Compensation for all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee May incur in connection with the relocation, including disruption and Loss of business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment, and Failing agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant To article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply To the new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment and apparatus, or other improvements to the land (collectively, the "improvements") that remain unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred By the owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 If the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations Hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call in and Convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall be Deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests In the land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9. 4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of his radio station License issued by communications canada and any subsequent amendments to That license.
(2) the licensee shall inform the owner of any amendments to his radio Station license.
Appendix c-2 Document 7
License of occupation for forestry experimental plots This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Her majesty the queen in right of the province of british columbia , as represented by the minister of forests of Of ____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached, and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of conducting Forestry related studies, tests and experiments.
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land
The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land by executing the new license Contained in the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner a license fee of $1.00 for the Entire term.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (b) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (c) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (d) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (e) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land And the amount of such losses, damages, costs and liabilities shall be Payable to the owner immediately; (f) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(g) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (h) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things On the land erected or placed on the land by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting The owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or Subrogation against the owner) against claims for personal injury, Death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising From any accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except that so long as the licensee is her majesty the Queen in right of the province of british columbia or a british columbia Crown corporation, the owner will waive the requirements of this Subsection on the delivery to the owner of confirmation that the Licensee is self insured; (k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (j), to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land To a british columbia crown corporation provided that the licensee gives Written notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection (i) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the land shall become, at the Discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted herein And the licensee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days Of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may immediately Cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.5 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment and apparatus, or other improvements to the land (collectively, the "improvements") that remain unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, or Section 6.4; or (b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license Pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is Reasonably required because of the nature of the improvements or because Of other constraints beyond the control of the licensee, including Weather, and provided that the licensee is proceeding diligently and Continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal Will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of This license) Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.6 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground improvements Pursuant to section 6.5, the owner may remove them from the land and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred By the owner respecting their removal.
6.7 The rights of the owner under section 6.5 and section 6.6 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $1.00 and all rights, privileges, benefits And interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. so long as the licensee is her majesty the Queen in right of the province of british columbia or a british columbia Crown corporation, the owner will waive the requirements of this Section.
7.2 If the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations Hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call in and Convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall be Deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1 the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests In the land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (f) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special provisos schedule Appendix c-2 Document 8
License of occupation for a hydrometric station This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Her majesty the queen in right of canada , As represented by the minister of the environment Of____________________
(the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license over That parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the Covenants of the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing, Installing, erecting, maintaining, repairing and replacing any physical Infrastructure shown in the sketch plan forming part of the legal Description schedule (the "works") and to use the works for operating a Hydrometric station and cable-crossing.
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with the terms hereof.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms of Conditions of this license, and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license of the land, The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of Sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to Accept a new licence of the land by executing the new license contained In the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner a license fee during the term of This license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during each year of the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of $200.00; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the annual fair market rent; and (b) during each year of each subsequent five year period over the term Of this license (the "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to The owner on each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum Equal to the greater of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (ii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if the Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which Relate to the land or any of the licensee's (or any sublicensee's of the Licensee) improvements thereon (the "realty taxes") that the licensee is Liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) subject to the Crown liability and proceedings act (canada) and the Financial administration act (canada), to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee; and (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land, And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately.
(g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all buildings, machinery, plant, equipment And apparatus and all other improvements to or things on the land Erected or placed on the land by the licensee; and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; provided, however, that so long as the licensee is her Majesty the queen in right of canada or a canada crown corporation the Owner will waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to The owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities of any other person to enter on And use the land under a subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner in accordance with section 9.3.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner assign its interest in all or part of the land to a Canada crown corporation provided that the licensee gives written notice Of any such change, at least 120 days prior to the next anniversary date Of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this licence.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 In the event that the licensee fails to observe or perform any term Contained herein, and such failure continues after the giving of the Written notice by the owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure For a period of:
(a) 30 days; or:
(b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout Then, and in any such case, the owner may cancel this license and, Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the land Shall become, at the discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 In the event that this license is taken in execution or attachment by Any person, or the licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes Insolvent or is petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an Arrangement with his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 In the event that the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes Permitted herein and the licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the owner, the Owner may immediately cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 In the event that the owner requires a portion of the land for a public Purpose, the owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days Written notice to the licensee, cancel this license and the rights Herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements which are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location on The land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion Of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the licensee's Structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of The licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the new location. if the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable costs of Constructing new improvements on the new location. as full compensation For all other costs, expenses and damages which the licensee may incur In connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of Business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply to The new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any buildings, machinery, Plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the land (collectively, the "improvements") that remain unremoved from the land:
(a) upon cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license Pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if further time is Reasonably required because of the nature of the improvements or because Of other constraints beyond the control of the licensee, including Weather, and provided that the licensee is proceeding diligently and Continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal Will be extended to 150 days after the expiration or cancellation of This license) Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any improvements pursuant to Section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the Licensee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred By the owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. so long as the licensee is her majesty the Queen in right of canada or a canada crown corporation, the owner will Waive the requirements of this subsection.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that when no security is required under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Where service of a notice or a document is required under this license, The notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have Been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered mail Addressed to, the owner and the licensee at the addresses specified for Each on the first page of this license, and where service is by Registered mail the notice or document shall be conclusively deemed to Have been served on the eighth day after its deposit in a canada post Office at any place in canada. provided that if there is a disruption in Mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or other events Beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and actual receipt of Such notice, the party sending such notice will re-send by courier, fax Or other electronic means and such notice will only be effective if Actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that Address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may grant to others rights to use or interests in The land for any purpose other than that permitted herein, so long as The grant does not materially affect the exercise of the licensee's Rights hereunder. the question of whether a grant materially affects the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder shall be determined by the Owner acting reasonably.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations, either party May request the british columbia international commercial arbitration Centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties and if The dispute does not involve a question of public law, the dispute shall Be referred to and resolved by arbitration in accordance with sections 10.5 to 10.9.
10.5 Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitration shall be conducted By a single arbitrator. the arbitrator shall be chosen by the parties; If they fail to agree on this choice within four (4) weeks following the Commencement of their discussion, then either party may request the British columbia international commercial arbitration centre or such Other organization or person agreed to by the parties in writing, to Select an arbitrator. the arbitrator chosen shall be independent, Impartial and competent.
10.6 The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing within thirty (30) Days after the completion of the arbitration or if thirty (30) days is Insufficient, then within such further time as is reasonable.
10.7 The arbitration shall be governed by the Commercial arbitration code Referred to in the Commercial arbitration act (canada) and except as provided in the Commercial arbitration code , the determination and award of the arbitration shall be final and Binding on both parties.
10.8 The arbitration shall take place in the province of british columbia, at A location as the parties may agree and, failing agreement, at a Location as the arbitrator may decide.
10.9 During the arbitration, the parties shall continue to perform their Obligations under the license. it is not incompatible with this Arbitration agreement for a party to request from a court, before or During the arbitration proceedings, an interim measure of protection and For a court to grant such measure.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or Sections, as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) The minister of the environment on behalf ) Of her majesty the queen in right of canada ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special proviso schedule (1) the licensee may clear the land and keep it cleared of all or any Part of trees, growth, buildings or obstructions now or hereafter on the Land which might interfere with or obstruct the construction, erection, Operation, maintenance, removal or replacement of the works pursuant to This agreement.
(2) despite subsection 4.1 (j) and section 6.7, at the expiration or Cancellation of this license, the licensee may leave on the land any Concrete foundation for the works.
Appendix c-2 Document 9
License of occupation for a navigational light This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Her majesty the queen in right of canada C/o superintendent, navigational aids, canadian coast guard Marine navigation services 25 huron street Victoria bc v8v 4v9 (the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by and the Covenants of the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing, Installing, erecting, maintaining, operating, repairing and replacing a Marine navigation aid.
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement date") unless cancelled in accordance with the terms Hereof.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this licence, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms of Conditions of this licence, and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than _______ days prior To the expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new licence of the land, The owner may agree to offer a new licence to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of Sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to Accept a new licence of the land by executing the new licence contained In the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 -- license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner a license fee of $1.00 on the Commencement date for the entire term of this license.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which Relate to the land or any of the licensee's (or any sublicensee's of the Licensee) improvements thereon (the "realty taxes") that the licensee is Liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) subject to the Crown liability and proceedings act (canada) and the Financial administration act (canada), to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee; and (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land, And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all buildings, machinery, plant equipment And apparatus and all other improvements to or things on the land Erected or placed on the land by the licensee; and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; provided, however, that so long as the licensee is her Majesty the queen in right of canada or a canada crown corporation, the Owner will waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to The owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities of any other person to enter on And use the land under a subsequent right or interest granted by the Owner in accordance with section 9.3.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner assign its interest in all or a part of the land to A canada crown corporation provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change, at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this licence.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 In the event that the licensee fails to observe or perform any term Contained herein, and such failure continues after the giving of the Written notice by the owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure For a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then, and in any such case, the owner may cancel this license and, Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any fixtures to the land Shall become, at the discretion of the owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 In the event that this license is taken in execution or attachment by Any person, or the licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes Insolvent or is petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an Arrangement with his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 In the event that the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes Permitted herein and the licensee does not recommence its use of the Land within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the owner, the Owner may immediately cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 In the event that the owner requires a portion of the land for a public Purpose, the owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days Written notice to the licensee, cancel this license and the rights Herein granted with respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements which are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location on The land or to a location on other land immediately adjacent to the land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion Of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the licensee's Structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of The licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the new location. if the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable costs of Constructing new improvements on the new location. as full compensation For all other costs, expenses and damages which the licensee may incur In connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of Business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply to The new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection (j) of section 4.1, any buildings, machinery, Plant, equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to the land (collectively, the "improvements") that remain unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration or cancellation of this license Pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if because of the Nature of the improvements or because of other constraints beyond the Control of the licensee, including weather, and provided that the Licensee is proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such Improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days After the expiration or cancellation of this license) Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any improvements pursuant to Section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the licensee Shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. so long as the licensee is her majesty in Right of canada or a canada crown corporation, the owner will waive the Requirements of this subsection.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1 the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that when no security is required under Section 7.1 this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Where service of a notice or a document is required under this license, The notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have Been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered mail Addressed to, the owner and the licensee at the addresses specified for Each on the first page of this license, and where service is by Registered mail the notice or document shall be conclusively deemed to Have been served on the eighth day after its deposit in a canada post Office at any place in canada. provided that if there is a disruption in Mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or other events Beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and actual receipt of Such notice, the party sending such notice will re-send by courier, fax Or other electronic means and such notice will only be effective if Actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address is specified under this section, notices shall be mailed to that Address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may grant to others rights to use or interests in The land for any purpose other than that permitted herein, so long as The grant or authorization does not materially affect the exercise of The licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a grant Materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder shall Be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by written Instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use or Occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this licence or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations, either party May request the british columbia international commercial arbitration Centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties and if The dispute does not involve a question of public law, the dispute shall Be referred to and resolved by arbitration in accordance with sections 10.5 to 10.9.
10.5 Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitration shall be conducted By a single arbitrator. the arbitrator shall be chosen by the parties; If they fail to agree on this choice within four (4) weeks following the Commencement of their discussion, then either party may request the British columbia international commercial arbitration centre or such Other organization or person agreed to by the parties in writing, to Select an arbitrator. the arbitrator chosen shall be independent, Impartial and competent.
10.6 The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing within thirty (30) Days after the completion of the arbitration or if thirty (30) days is Insufficient, then within such further time as is reasonable.
10.7 The arbitration shall be governed by the Commercial arbitration code Referred to in the Commercial arbitration act (canada) and except as provided in the Commercial arbitration code , the determination and award of the arbitration shall be final and Binding on both parties.
10.8 The arbitration shall take place in the province of british columbia, at A location as the parties may agree and, failing agreement, at a Location as the arbitrator may decide.
10.9 During the arbitration, the parties shall continue to perform their Obligations under the license. it is not incompatible with this Arbitration agreement for a party to request from a court, before or During the arbitration proceedings, an interim measure of protection and For a court to grant such measure.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or Sections, as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) The minister of fisheries and oceans on ) Behalf of her majesty the queen in right of ) Canada in the presence of ) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Special proviso schedule Special provisos:
(1) the licensee may clear the land and keep it cleared of all or any Part of trees, growth, buildings or obstructions now or hereafter on the Land which might interfere with or obstruct the construction, erection, Operation, maintenance, removal or replacement of the navigational Light.
(2) despite subsection 4.1 (j) and section 6.7, at the expiration or Cancellation of this license, the licensee may leave on the land any Concrete foundation for the navigational light.
Appendix c-2 Document 10
License of occupation for telephone exchange This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
Bc tel , of ____________________ (the "licensee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the licensee a license to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ________________ and described in the schedule attached and Entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the licensee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of license 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the licensee A license to enter on and use the land for the purpose of constructing, Maintaining, repairing, replacing, removing and operating for Communication purposes any building, road, antennae, pole, cable, Strand, powerline or other physical infrastructure shown in the site Plan forming part of the legal description schedule (the "civil Infrastructure").
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the license and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of 20 years commencing on the Day of , 199 (the "commencement Date") unless cancelled in accordance with article 6.
2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this license, so long as:
(a) the licensee is not in default of any of the material terms or Conditions of this license; and (b) the licensee has given the owner, not more than · days prior to the Expiration of the term herein granted, notice in writing of the Licensee's wish to re-apply for a new license to enter on and use the Land
The owner may agree to offer a new license to the licensee by notice to The licensee, in writing, on the terms and conditions determined by the Owner and contained in the notice. the licensee shall have a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice from the owner to accept A new license to enter on and use the land by executing the new license Contained in the notice and delivering it to the owner.
Article 3 – license fee 3.1 The licensee shall pay to the owner an annual license fee during the Term of this license, in advance, as follows:
(a) during the first five years of the term of this license (the "initial fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner:
(i) on the commencement date, the sum of $500.00; and (ii) on each annual anniversary of the commencement date during the Initial fee period, a sum equal to the greater of:
(1) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year; or (2) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing policies of the province of british columbia with respect To the payment of rent for communication sites located on similar crown Land (the "provincial policies"); and (b) during each subsequent five year period over the term of this License (a "subsequent fee period"), the licensee shall pay to the owner On each annual anniversary of the commencement date a sum equal to the Greatest of:
(i) the annual license fee for the immediately preceding year, (ii) the amount which would be payable on that date under the Then-existing provincial policies, or (iii) the annual fair market rent for the subsequent fee period, if that Annual fair market rent has been determined:
(1) by written agreement between the owner and the licensee prior to the Subsequent fee period; or (2) pursuant to the dispute resolution process set out in article 10, Invoked by the owner or the licensee prior to the subsequent fee period.
3.2 In this article, "annual fair market rent" Means the fee which a willing licensee at arm's length from the owner Would pay to the owner in respect of the land excluding any allocation Of value to any fixtures or improvements located on the land:
(a) belonging to the licensee; or (b) not available for use by the licensee.
Article 4 – covenants of the licensee 4.1 The licensee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the license fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the licensee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the licensee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the licensee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the licensee Is responsible at law anything that may be or become a nuisance to the Owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (k), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the licensee required to be observed by the licensee Pursuant to this license; (f) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this license by the licensee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Licensee's use and occupation of the land And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fee and the amount so added shall be payable to the Owner immediately; (g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Licensee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) to use and occupy the land in accordance with the provisions of this License including those set forth in the schedule attached and entitled "special provisos"; (j) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this license:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on The land erected or placed on the land by the licensee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to the satisfaction of the Owner acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this license; (k) to effect and keep in force during the term insurance protecting the Owner and the licensee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation Against the owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property Damage or third party or public liability claims arising from any Accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except, however, that the owner may, in its sole Discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection on the delivery to The owner of evidence that the licensee is self insured; (l) notwithstanding subsection (k), the owner may from time to time Notify the licensee that the amount of insurance posted by the licensee Pursuant to that subsection be changed and the licensee shall, within 60 Days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of insurance posted, Pursuant to subsection (k) to be changed to the amount specified by the Owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change, except that when the licensee is Self-insuring this section shall not apply; and (m) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3; and (n) on request of the owner, to provide to the owner an inventory of Communication uses sufficient to allow the calculation of fees under the Provincial policies.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The licensee shall not assign this license or grant a sublicense of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner, which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.2 Notwithstanding section 5.1, the licensee may, without the prior written Consent of the owner, assign its interest in all or a part of the land To an affiliate (as defined in the Company act, Rsbc 1996) of the licensee provided that the licensee gives written Notice of any such change at least 120 days prior to the next Anniversary date of the term of this license.
5.3 No assignment or sublicensing pursuant to sections 5.1 or 5.2, nor the Owner's consent thereto, will relieve the licensee from the observance And performance of the licensee's obligations contained in this license.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the licensee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues after the giving of the written notice by the Owner to the licensee of the nature of the failure for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature would reasonably Require more than 30 days to cure, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to cure the failure throughout; Then the owner may cancel this license and, notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any fixtures to the land shall become, at the discretion of the Owner, the property of the owner.
6.2 If this license is taken in execution or attachment by any person, or The licensee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is Petitioned into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement With his creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the Licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the licensee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted herein And the licensee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days Of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may immediately Cancel this license and the rights herein granted.
6.4 If the owner requires a portion of the land for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 6.5 and on 180 days written notice To the licensee, cancel this license and the rights herein granted with Respect to the whole or any part of the land.
6.5 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 6.4, the owner will Give the licensee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the licensee's structures and improvements that are materially Affected by the cancellation in section 6.4 to a different location On the land or to a location on other land in the vicinity of the land (the "new location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion Of the licensee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the licensee's Structures and improvements and be equally suitable for the purposes of The licensee. the owner will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the Licensee and its structures and improvements to the new location. if the Licensee's structures and improvements cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the licensee the reasonable costs of Constructing new improvements on the new location. as full compensation For all other costs, expenses and damages that the licensee may incur in Connection with the relocation, including disruption and loss of Business, the parties shall agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this license will apply to The new location for the balance of the original term.
6.6 The licensee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this License and thereafter the license and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.7 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (j), any building, machinery, plant, Equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land (collectively, The "improvements") that remains unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this license pursuant to section 6.1, Section 6.4 or section 6.6; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this license or the cancellation Of this license pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3 (provided that if Further time is reasonably required because of the nature of the Improvements or because of other constraints beyond the control of the Licensee, including weather, and provided that the licensee is Proceeding diligently and continuously to remove such improvements, the 30 day time for removal will be extended to 150 days after the Expiration or cancellation of this license), Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.8 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any improvements pursuant to Section 6.7, the owner may remove them from the land and the licensee Shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred by the Owner respecting their removal.
6.9 The rights of the owner under section 6.7 and section 6.8 shall be Deemed to survive the expiration or earlier cancellation of this License.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $· and all rights, privileges, benefits and Interests accruing thereto delivered by the licensee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee the performance of the Licensee's obligations under this license shall be maintained in effect Until such time as the owner certifies in writing that such obligations Have been fully performed. the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the licensee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this license.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1, the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the licensee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the licensee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this License, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the licensee, as the case may be, at the Addresses specified for each on the first page of this license, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this license and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the licensee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The licensee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This license shall not entitle the licensee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may, for any purpose, grant to others interests In the land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the licensee's rights hereunder Shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably. if the owner, by Written instrument, grants a license, right or interest to others to use Or occupy the land, such grant will contain a provision identical to Subsection 4.1 (g) of this license obligating the new grantee to keep The land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to the Owner.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this license shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this license, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this license are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this license or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this license shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this license as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Appendix c-2 Document 11
Permit of occupation for waterworks This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , of ____________________ (the "owner") And:
The holder of british columbia conditional water licence ____________________ , being as Of the date of this agreement ____________________ Of ____________________
("the permittee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the permittee a permit in Respect of that parcel of nisg̱a'a lands ("the land") described in the Attached schedule "a", entitled legal description schedule; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the permittee, the owner and the permittee agree as Follows:
Article 1 – grant of permit 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth therein, hereby grants to the Permittee a permit to occupy the land for the purpose of constructing, Reconstructing, replacing, maintaining and operating thereon works Necessary for the conveyance of water from (watercourse) To
(legal description) ("the appurtenant property"), in accordance with british columbia Conditional water licence ____________________ ("the water licence") and For the purposes specified in the water licence on the date of this Agreement (the "commencement date").
Article 2 – the land 2.1 The land that is authorized to be occupied under this permit is Described in the schedule attached and entitled "legal description".
Article 3 – timber cutting 3.1 The permittee may cut and remove from the land any timber, shrubs or Foliage necessary to permit the construction, reconstruction, Replacement, maintenance and operation of the works referred to in Section 1.1, provided that prior to the cutting or removal of any Timber, the permittee will apply for and obtain from the owner a timber Licence under which the owner, acting reasonably, may determine the Amount of compensation which the permittee will pay to the owner in Respect of trees that are cut, removed, damaged, or destroyed by the Permittee.
Article 4 – permit fee 4.1 On the commencement date and on each anniversary of the commencement Date, the permittee shall pay to the owner a permit fee ("the annual Permit fee") in accordance with this article.
4.2 On the commencement date, the annual permit fee is $6.00.
4.3 The owner may at any time and in its discretion revise the annual permit Fee by giving notice to the permittee in accordance with article 8, but The owner shall not at any time increase the annual permit fee above the Rental charged by british columbia at that time for a similar permit to Occupy crown land.
Article 5 – covenants of the permittee 5.1 The permittee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the annual permit fee due at the address of the owner set out Above or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time By giving notice to the permittee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which Relate to the land or any improvements of the permittee thereon (the "realty taxes") which the permittee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land or improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land, or do or suffer to be done thereon by the Permittee's employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom The permittee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a Nuisance to the owner or to the occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, receipts or Other evidence of payment of realty taxes, and other monetary Obligations of the permittee required to be observed by the permittee Pursuant to this permit; (f) to indemnify and save the owner harmless against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this permit by the permittee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the Permittee's use and occupation of the land, And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the permit fee and the amount so added shall be payable To the owner immediately; (g) with respect to the permittee's use and occupation of the land, to Keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition satisfactory to The owner acting reasonably, and with respect to the permittee's use and Occupation of the land, to make clean and sanitary any portion of the Land or any improvement thereon that the owner, acting reasonably, may Direct by notice in writing to the permittee; (h) on the termination or cancellation of this permit:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground works and other Improvements to or things on the land erected or placed on the land by The permittee, and (iii) to restore the surface of the land to a condition satisfactory to The owner, acting reasonably, And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the termination Or cancellation of this permit; and (i) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on, uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with article 9.
Article 6 – appurtenance and assignment 6.1 This permit is appurtenant to the appurtenant property and passes with a Conveyance or other disposition of the estate in fee simple to the Appurtenant property.
6.2 The permittee shall give written notice to the owner of any conveyance Or other disposition of the estate in fee simple to the appurtenant Property within 60 days after that conveyance or other disposition.
6.3 Subject to section 6.1, the permittee shall not assign this permit or Grant a subpermit in respect of any part of the land without the prior Written consent of the owner.
6.4 This permit burdens the land.
Article 7 – termination and cancellation 7.1 This permit terminates if the water licence terminates, is abandoned or Cancelled, or is amended so as to render this permit unnecessary.
7.2 If the permittee fails to observe or perform any of the covenants, Agreements, provisions or conditions contained herein, and such failure Continues for a period of 60 days after the giving of the written notice By the owner to the permittee of the nature of the failure, the owner May cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.
7.3 If the owner requires a portion of the land for a public purpose, the Owner may, in accordance with section 7.4 and on 180 days written notice To the permittee, cancel this permit and the rights granted herein with Respect to no more than 5% of the whole of the land.
7.4 Concurrently with the notice referred to in section 7.3, the owner will Give the permittee written notice that the owner will, at its cost, Relocate the permittee's works that are materially affected by Cancellation under section 7.3 to a different location on the land or to A location on other land immediately adjacent to the land ("the new Location"). the new location must, in the reasonable opinion of the Permittee, be of sufficient size to accommodate the permittee's works And be equally suitable for the purposes of the permittee. the owner Will pay for any reasonable costs of moving the permittee's works to the New location. if the permittee's works cannot be moved to the new Location, the owner will pay to the permittee the reasonable costs of Constructing new works on the new location. as full compensation for any Costs, expenses or damages which the permittee may incur in connection With the relocation, including disruption and loss of business, the Owner and the permittee will agree on a lump sum payment and failing Agreement, the matter will be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 10. all other terms and conditions of this permit will apply to The new location.
7.5 Notwithstanding subsection 5.1 (h), any works or other improvements to The land that remain unremoved from the land upon the termination of This permit pursuant to section 7.1 or upon the cancellation of this Permit pursuant to section 7.2 shall, at the discretion of the owner, be Forfeited to and become the property of the owner.
7.6 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground works or Other improvements pursuant to section 7.5, the owner may remove them From the land and the permittee shall, on demand, compensate the owner For all costs incurred by the owner respecting their removal.
7.7 The rights of the owner and the obligations of the permittee under Section 7.5 and section 7.6 shall, to the extent necessary, survive the Expiration or cancellation of this permit.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this Permit, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the permittee, as the case may be, at The addresses specified for each on the first page of this permit, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this permit and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
8.3 Notwithstanding section 8.1, any written notice to be served or given by The owner to the permittee under this permit shall be effectively given Or served by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the land.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the permittee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The permittee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This permit shall not entitle the permittee to exclusive use or Possession of the land and the owner may for any purpose grant to other Persons interests in the land or rights to enter on, use or occupy the Land, or may otherwise authorize other persons to enter on, use or Occupy the land, so long as the grant or authorization does not Materially affect the exercise of the permittee's rights hereunder. the Question of whether a grant materially affects the exercise of the Permittee's rights hereunder shall be determined by the owner acting Reasonably.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this permit shall extend to, be binding upon And enure to the benefit of the owner and the permittee and their Successors and permitted assigns.
9.5 The permittee who conveys or otherwise disposes of the estate in fee Simple to the appurtenant property (the "transferor"):
(a) remains liable for any breach of or non-observance or Non-performance of the covenants, agreements, provisions or conditions Contained herein that occur before that conveyance or other disposition; But
(b) if the transferor obtains and delivers to the owner within 60 days Of the conveyance or other disposition an agreement in the form set out In schedule "b" and entitled "acknowledgement of assignment and Assumption", signed by the transferor and by the permittee to whom the Estate has been conveyed or otherwise disposed of (the "transferee"), The transferor is not liable for any breaches of or non-observance of or Non-performance of the covenants, agreements, provisions or conditions Contained herein that occur after that delivery.
9.6 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this permit or in Respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or derived From it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this permit, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this permit are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this permit or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part and section of this permit shall be Considered separate and severable and the remaining parts or sections, As the case may be, shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this permit as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Schedule "a" Legal description Schedule "b" Acknowledgement of assignment and assumption This agreement dated for reference this ____________________ day of ____________________ , ____________________ .
Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation (the "owner") And:
(the "transferor") And:
(the "transferee") Whereas the transferor has held a permit (the "permit of occupation") Granted by the owner for the occupation of a certain parcel of nisg̱a'a Lands (the "land"); And whereas the permit of occupation is appurtenant to certain property (the "appurtenant property") and passes with the estate in fee simple to The appurtenant property; And whereas the transferor has conveyed or otherwise disposed of to the Transferee the estate in fee simple to the appurtenant property; Now therefore this agreement witnesses that in consideration of the sums Of $1.00, now paid by each party to each of the others, the receipt of Sufficiency of which each party hereby acknowledges, and in further Consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein set out, the Parties covenant and agree as follows:
1.
In this agreement:
"appurtenant property" Means (
Legal description )____________________; ________________________________________ ; "land" Means (
Description from permit )____________________ ________________________________________ ; "permit of occupation" Means the permit to occupy the land granted by the owner on ( Effective date of treaty ) ____________________ ________________________________________ , ____________________ to the Holder of british columbia conditional water licence ____________________ ; "permittee" Means the holder of the permit of occupation; "transfer" Means the conveyance or other disposition by the transferor to the Transferee of the estate in fee simple to the appurtenant property on ( Date of transfer ) ____________________ ________________________________________ , ____________________ .
2.
The transferor hereby acknowledges and agrees that by the transfer and From and after the date of the transfer, the transferor has absolutely Assigned to the transferee all of the transferor's right to occupy the Land as the permittee pursuant to the permit of occupation, a copy of Which is attached hereto.
3.
The transferee hereby acknowledges and agrees that by the transfer and From and after the date of the transfer, the transferee has assumed from The transferor all of the obligations of the permittee pursuant to the Permit of occupation and is bound by all of the covenants, agreements, Provisions or conditions contained therein.
4.
The owner hereby acknowledges and agrees that, by the transfer and from And after the date of the transfer, the transferee has the right to Occupy the land as the permittee pursuant to the permit of occupation.
In witness whereof each of the owner, the transferor and the transferee Has executed this agreement as of the date and year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Owner
____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Transferor
____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Transferee
____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Appendix c-2 Document 12
Special use permit for forestry operations This agreement made this __________ day of ____________________, 199 Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation , Of ____________________
(the "owner") And:
____________________ , of ____________________ ("the permittee") Whereas the owner has agreed to grant to the permittee a permit to enter On and use that parcel of land (the "land") located generally in the Vicinity of ____________________ and described in the schedule attached And entitled "legal description"; Now therefore in consideration of the fee to be paid by, and the Covenants of, the permittee, the parties agree as follows:
Article 1 – grant of permit 1.1 The owner, on the terms set forth herein, hereby grants to the permittee A permit to enter on and use the land for the purpose Of                  .
Article 2 – duration 2.1 The duration of the permit and the rights herein granted shall be for a Term of five years commencing on the ____________________ day of ____________________ , 199__ (the "commencement date") unless cancelled In accordance with article 6.
Article 3 – permit fee 3.1 On the commencement date, and on each annual anniversary of the Commencement date over the term of this permit, the permittee shall pay To the owner a permit fee in the amount of $100.
Article 4 – covenants of the permittee 4.1 The permittee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the permit fee due at the address of the owner set out above Or at such other place as the owner may specify from time to time by the Giving of notice to the permittee in accordance with article 8; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged that relate To the land or any of the permittee's improvements thereon (the "realty Taxes") that the permittee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority in any way affecting the land and improvements Situate thereon, or their use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the land or do or suffer to be done thereon by its Employees, contractors, agents, invitees or anyone for whom the Permittee is responsible at law anything that may be or become a Nuisance to the owner or occupiers of adjoining land; (e) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance provided for in subsection (j), receipts or other evidence of Payment of realty taxes, insurance premiums and other monetary Obligations of the permittee required to be observed by the permittee Pursuant to this permit; (f) to indemnify and save the owner harmless against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or agreement in this permit by the permittee, or (ii) any personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of the Permittee's use and occupation of the land And the owner may add the amount of such losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the permit fee and the amount so added shall be payable To the owner immediately; (g) to keep the land in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the land or any improvement thereon that the Owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the Permittee;
(h) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The land at any time to examine its condition; (i) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this permit:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the land to the owner, (ii) to remove from the land all above-ground buildings, machinery, Plant equipment and apparatus and all other improvements to or things on The land erected or placed on the land by the permittee, whether before Or after the commencement date, (iii) if reasonably required by the owner, to cause an independent site Assessment of the land to be performed by a qualified environmental Consultant acceptable to the owner, and (iv) to restore the land to a safe, clean, sanitary and environmentally Sound condition, including by revegetation where required to prevent Erosion, satisfactory to the owner, acting reasonably And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this permit; (j) to effect, and keep in force during the term, insurance protecting The owner and the permittee (without any rights of cross-claim or Subrogation against the owner) against claims for personal injury, Death, property damage or third party or public liability claims arising From any accident or occurrence on the land to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; except that the owner may, in its sole discretion, waive The requirements of this subsection on the delivery to the owner of Evidence that the permittee is self insured; (k) notwithstanding subsection (j), the owner may from time to time Notify the permittee that the amount of insurance posted by the Permittee pursuant to that subsection be changed and the permittee Shall, within 60 days of receiving such notice, cause the amount of Insurance posted, pursuant to subsection (j) to be changed to the amount Specified by the owner, acting reasonably, in the notice and deliver to The owner written confirmation of the change, except that when the Permittee is self-insuring this section shall not apply; (l) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the land under a Subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is otherwise Authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the land, in Accordance with section 9.3; (m) to erect such fences or gates on the land that the owner, acting Reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to the permittee; (n) to undertake fire prevention and fire suppression measures as if the Land were within the permittee's "area of operation" and the activities Permitted herein were "industrial activities" under the Forest practices code of british columbia act, Rsbc 1996;
(o) not to deposit or permit to be deposited on the land any slash or Refuse, unless the permittee has first obtained from the owner a permit Specifying the conditions of such deposit; (p) before cutting any timber, erecting any building or other structure, Or making any other improvement to the land, to submit to the owner a Plan showing the location of the cutting or the location and Specifications of the building, structure or other improvement proposed For the land; (q) not to:
(i) cut any timber on the land, (ii) erect any building or other improvement on the land, or (iii) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, except bona fide by way of Security, any building or other improvement on the land Without the prior written consent of the owner.
Article 5 – assignment 5.1 The permittee shall not assign this permit or grant a subpermit of any Part of the land without the prior written consent of the owner.
Article 6 – cancellation 6.1 If the permittee fails to observe or perform any term contained herein, And such failure continues for a period of 60 days after the giving of Written notice by the owner to the permittee of the nature of the Failure, the owner may cancel this permit.
6.2 If this permit is taken in execution or attachment by any person or the Permittee commits an act of bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, is petitioned Into bankruptcy or voluntarily enters into an arrangement with its Creditors, the owner may, on 90 days written notice to the permittee, Cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.
6.3 If the permittee ceases to use the land for the purposes permitted Herein and the permittee does not recommence its use of the land within 180 days of receipt of written notice from the owner, the owner may Immediately cancel this permit and the rights herein granted.
6.4 The permittee may deliver a written notice to the owner cancelling this Permit and thereafter the permit and the rights herein granted will Terminate 180 days after the date of receipt by the owner of such Written notice.
6.5 Notwithstanding subsection 4.1 (i), any building, machinery, plant Equipment, apparatus, or other improvements to the land that remain Unremoved from the land:
(a) upon the cancellation of this permit pursuant to section 6.1 or Section 6.4; or (b) thirty days after the expiration of this permit or the cancellation Of this permit pursuant to section 6.2 or section 6.3; Shall, at the discretion of the owner, be forfeited to and become the Property of the owner.
6.6 If the owner elects to assume ownership of any above-ground building, Machinery, plant equipment, apparatus or other improvements to the land Pursuant to section 6.5, the owner may remove them from the land and the Permittee shall, on demand, compensate the owner for all costs incurred By the owner respecting their removal.
6.7 The rights of the owner and the obligations of the permittee under Section 6.5 and section 6.6 shall, to the extent necessary, survive the Expiration or cancellation of this permit.
Article 7 – security 7.1 The security in the sum of $      and all Rights, privileges, benefits and interests accruing thereto delivered by The permittee to the owner (herein called the "security") to guarantee The performance of the permittee's obligations under this permit shall Be maintained in effect until such time as the owner certifies in Writing that such obligations have been fully performed. the owner may, In its sole discretion, waive the requirements of this section.
7.2 In the event the permittee defaults in the performance of any of its Obligations hereunder, the owner may, in its sole discretion, sell, call In and convert the security, or any part of it, and such security shall Be deemed to have been absolutely forfeited to the owner.
7.3 The rights of the owner under this article shall be deemed to continue In full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration or earlier Cancellation of this permit.
7.4 Notwithstanding any amount of security stated to be required under Section 7.1 the owner may, acting reasonably, from time to time by Notice to the permittee, demand the amount to be changed to that Specified in a notice and the permittee shall, within 60 days of such Notice, change the security to that specified and provide the owner with Evidence of the change, except that while security is waived under Section 7.1, this section shall not apply.
Article 8 – notice 8.1 Whenever service of a notice or a document is required under this Permit, the notice or documents shall be in writing and shall be deemed To have been served if delivered to, or if sent by prepaid registered Mail addressed to, the owner or the permittee, as the case may be, at The addresses specified for each on the first page of this permit, and Where service is by registered mail the notice or document shall be Conclusively deemed to have been served on the eighth day after its Deposit in a canada post office at any place in canada. if there is a Disruption in mail service caused by labour dispute, civil unrest or Other events beyond the control of the parties, between mailing and Actual receipt of such notice, the party sending such notice will Re-send by courier, fax or other electronic means and such notice will Only be effective if actually received.
8.2 Either party may, by notice in writing to the other, specify another Address for service of notices under this permit and after another Address has been specified under this section, notices shall be mailed To that address in accordance with this article.
Article 9 – miscellaneous 9.1 No term, condition, covenant or other provision herein shall be Considered to have been waived by the owner unless such waiver is Expressed in writing by the owner. any such waiver of any term, Condition, covenant or other provision herein shall not be construed as Or constitute a waiver of any further or other breach of the same or any Other term, condition, covenant, or other provision and the consent or Approval of the owner to any act by the permittee requiring the consent Or approval of the owner shall not be considered to waive or render Unnecessary such consents or approvals to any subsequent similar act by The permittee.
9.2 No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the owner is exclusive of any Other remedy herein or provided by law, but such remedy shall be Cumulative and shall be in addition to any other remedy herein or Hereafter existing at law, in equity, or by statute.
9.3 This permit shall not entitle the permittee to exclusive possession of The land and the owner may for any purpose grant to others interests in The land or rights to enter on or use or occupy the land, or may Otherwise authorize other persons to enter on or use or occupy the land, So long as the grant or authorization does not materially affect the Exercise of the permittee's rights hereunder. the question of whether a Grant materially affects the exercise of the permittee's rights Hereunder shall be determined by the owner acting reasonably.
9.4 The terms and provisions of this permit shall extend to, be binding upon And enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and Permitted assigns.
9.5 Time is of the essence in this agreement.
Article 10 – dispute resolution 10.1 In this article, "dispute" Means any dispute arising out of or in connection with this license or In respect of any defined legal relationship associated with it or Derived from it.
10.2 The parties agree to attempt to resolve all disputes by negotiations Conducted in good faith and to provide timely disclosure of all relevant Facts, information and documents to further those negotiations.
10.3 If a dispute is not settled through direct negotiations either party may Request the british columbia international commercial arbitration centre (bcicac) to appoint a mediator to conduct a mediation under its Mediation rules of procedure.
10.4 If a dispute is not settled within 15 days of the appointment of the Mediator or any further period of time agreed to by the parties, the Dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration before A single arbitrator under the arbitration rules of procedure of the Bcicac.
10.5 If the bcicac is unavailable or unable to administer the mediation or Arbitration of a dispute under its rules of procedure, the parties will Select the rules of another institution.
Article 11 – interpretation 11.1 In this permit, unless the context otherwise requires, the singular Includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine gender and a Corporation.
11.2 The captions and headings contained in this permit are for convenience Only and are not to be construed as defining or in any way limiting the Scope or intent of the provisions herein.
11.3 If any section of this permit or any part of a section is found to be Illegal or unenforceable, that part or section, as the case may be, Shall be considered separate and severable and the remaining parts and Sections of this permit, shall not be affected thereby and shall be Enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
In witness whereof, the parties have executed this permit as of the day And year first above written.
Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Signed by a duly authorized signatory of ) ) In the presence of:
) ____________________ Name
) ) ____________________ Authorized signatory ____________________ Address
) ) ____________________ ) ) Legal description schedule 1. legal description 2. sketch plan Appendix c-2 Document 13
Leases
Leases on file at the department of indian affairs and Northern development, british columbia regional office And
At the office of the nisg̱a'a tribal council Appendix c-3 Applicable forms of document for public Utility transmission and distribution Facilities in part 2 of appendix c-1 Document 1
Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works to British columbia hydro and power authority (hydro) and Document 2
Grant of right of way and licence for telecommunications to bc Tel.
Appendix c-3 Document 1
Grant of right of way and licence for public utility works To
British columbia hydro and power authority This agreement is dated ____________________ , ____________________ Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation [insert address] (the "nisg̱a'a nation") And:
British columbia hydro and power authority, Continued under the Hydro and power authority act, Rsbc 1996, c. 212 [insert address] ("hydro") Whereas:
A.
The nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia have entered into the Nisg̱a'a final agreement.
B.
The nisg̱a'a nation wishes to grant to hydro rights on nisg̱a'a lands for Hydro works existing on nisg̱a'a lands on the effective date.
Therefore for good and valuable consideration the nisg̱a'a nation and Hydro agree as follows:
1. definitions "bc tel" Means bc tel, and its successors and assigns.
"final agreement" Means the nisg̱a'a final agreement between the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and British columbia.
"hydro purposes" Means the transmission and distribution of electric energy and Telecommunications.
"hydro works" Means poles, towers, antennae (except for monopole free standing Antennae), anchors, guy wires, brackets, cross arms, insulators, Transformers, overhead and underground conductors, wires, lines and Cables, underground conduits and pipes, access nodes, all ancillary Appliances and fittings, reasonably required associated protective Installations and related works such as fencing for safety or security, Devices and identifying colours for aircraft warning, and utility Services for the operation of any of the foregoing.
"hydro right of way area" Means those portions of nisg̱a'a lands as described in schedule a Attached to this agreement.
"licensed hydro works" Means, collectively, any hydro works, and any access roads within the Vegetation management area, that, on the effective date, are located on Nisg̱a'a lands outside of:
(a) a crown road right of way area; (b) a hydro right of way area; (c) a right of way area granted to bc tel on which hydro is bc tel's Licensee; or (d) an area in respect of which, on the effective date, the nisg̱a'a Nation grants hydro rights under a separate instrument.
"vegetation management area" Means the hydro right of way area together with the area 10 metres on Both sides of the hydro right of way area.
2. relationship to final agreement This agreement is made under the final agreement, and defined terms in The final agreement will have the same meaning in this agreement.
3. rights on hydro right of way area The nisg̱a'a nation grants to hydro, and its employees, representatives, Agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and Uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, for hydro purposes, as Follows:
(a) to construct, excavate for, erect, string, or otherwise install, Operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and replace hydro Works over, upon and under the hydro right of way area; (b) to trim or remove all or any trees, growth or vegetation now or Hereafter on the vegetation management area that may in the reasonable Opinion of hydro create a hazard or interfere with the hydro works or The carrying out of any of the hydro purposes, except that hydro shall Take all reasonable steps, including where appropriate planting of Suitable replacement vegetation, to avoid erosion or other damage; (c) to conduct vegetation management upon the vegetation management Area, such as the planting of vegetation compatible with use for hydro Purposes, and the application of herbicides and pesticides provided That:
(i) hydro will not conduct any aerial application of herbicides or Pesticides on the hydro right of way area or other nisg̱a'a lands; and (ii) hydro will obtain all permits and approvals as required by Authorities having jurisdiction, including any such permits or approvals Required by the nisg̱a'a nation, for the use of any herbicides or Pesticides;
(d) to clear the hydro right of way area and keep it cleared of all or Any part of any obstructions that may in the reasonable opinion of hydro Create a hazard or interfere with the hydro works or the carrying out of Any of the hydro purposes; (e) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by Others which are now or hereafter shall be on the hydro right of way Area and in fences across roads in the vegetation management area; (f) to ground any structures, installation or things, by whomsoever Owned, from time to time situated anywhere on the hydro right of way Area or adjacent nisg̱a'a lands where, in the reasonable opinion of Hydro, such grounding will eliminate or reduce hazard to persons; (g) to pass and repass over the hydro right of way area with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by hydro, and To construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, roads and Bridges on the hydro right of way area as reasonably required to obtain Access to the hydro works; and (h) to generally do all acts or things necessary in connection with the Foregoing.
4. non exclusive use This agreement will not entitle hydro to exclusive possession of the Hydro right of way area or other parts of the nisg̱a'a lands and the Nisg̱a'a nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the Vegetation management area, including the hydro right of way area, so Long as the grant does not materially affect the exercise of hydro's Rights under this agreement.
5. bc tel Hydro will cooperate and enter into agreements with bc tel in the same Manner as hydro and bc tel cooperate and enter into agreements elsewhere In british columbia, to share the use of poles, ducts and other works.
6. licence for hydro works located outside rights of way The nisg̱a'a nation grants to hydro, and its employees, representatives, Agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, as of the effective date, A licence for all licensed hydro works to use and occupy nisg̱a'a lands On the following terms:
(a) the licence is irrevocable so long as hydro requires the use of the Licensed hydro works for hydro purposes, unless the licensed hydro works Are included within a crown road right of way area or hydro right of way Area under this paragraph; (b) for the licensed hydro works, hydro holds the same rights, Privileges and obligations, including all indemnity obligations, as Apply to hydro for the use of the hydro right of way area under this Agreement, and including the right of reasonable access onto the nisg̱a'a Lands for the purpose of gaining access to the licensed hydro works; (c) if at any time in the course of maintenance or operations hydro Replaces or makes significant repairs to licensed hydro works which are Adjacent to a crown road right of way area or a hydro right of way area Then, upon written notice from the nisg̱a'a nation and provided the Relocation does not result in significant increased costs, and for a Crown road right of way area if the relocation is acceptable to british Columbia, hydro will relocate the licensed hydro works on to the Adjacent right of way area, and the licence for those licensed hydro Works will be terminated; (d) the nisg̱a'a nation may at any time at no cost to hydro require hydro To enter into an agreement to extend the hydro right of way area so as To incorporate within the hydro right of way area any licensed hydro Works designated by the nisg̱a'a nation and upon the appropriate Extension of the hydro right of way area the licence for those licensed Hydro works will be terminated; (e) the nisg̱a'a nation may at any time require hydro to relocate Licensed hydro works designated by the nisg̱a'a nation to another Location on nisg̱a'a lands, including on to an adjacent crown road right Of way area if acceptable to british columbia, or to a hydro right of Way area and in that event:
(i) if the new location is reasonably suitable for use for hydro works Considering construction, maintenance and operation and costs, hydro Will proceed with the relocation; (ii) the nisg̱a'a nation will give reasonable notice to permit design, Planning and construction of the hydro works to be relocated; (iii) the nisg̱a'a nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs Of design, supervision and construction; and (iv) upon relocation, this licence is extended to the relocated hydro Works, except if the relocated hydro works are located on a crown road Right of way area or a hydro right of way area, then the license for Those hydro works will be terminated.
7. duration The rights, liberties and rights of way granted under this agreement are For so long as required and will terminate, without compensation to Hydro, when hydro no longer requires the hydro right of way area, and:
(a) hydro gives 90 days written notice to the nisg̱a'a nation; or (b) the nisg̱a'a nation gives 90 days written notice to hydro.
8. work plans for hydro works Except in an emergency, hydro will provide to the nisg̱a'a nation a Written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a hydro Right of way area prior to undertaking any of the following work:
(a) installation of any new transmission or distribution lines; (b) relocation of any transmission or distribution lines; (c) trimming or removal of any trees, growth or vegetation on or Adjacent to a hydro right of way area, including the vegetation Management area; (d) constructing any new trails, roads or bridges on the hydro right of Way area.
Hydro will provide the work plan in time to afford the nisg̱a'a nation The opportunity to comment, and hydro will use reasonable efforts to Accommodate any suggestions or requests presented by the nisg̱a'a nation Provided they do not result in significant increased costs.
9. insurance and security If british columbia requires hydro to carry insurance, to provide Security, or both, in relation to rights of way granted to hydro by British columbia, then on request of the nisg̱a'a nation, hydro will Obtain insurance, security, or both, for the benefit of the nisg̱a'a Nation on terms substantially the same as required by british columbia.
10. access to hydro rights of way If for any reason hydro is unable to obtain reasonable access to any Hydro works from the hydro right of way area, a crown road, a nisg̱a'a Road or a hydro private access right of way, then the nisg̱a'a nation Will, where land access is reasonably practicable, on application from Hydro, grant hydro the right to cross nisg̱a'a lands to provide hydro Access on terms substantially the same as contained in document 3 of Appendix c4 to the final agreement.
11. hazardous trees adjacent to hydro right of way Hydro may remove any tree located on nisg̱a'a lands which by falling or Otherwise may endanger any hydro works, but, except in an emergency, Will give the nisg̱a'a nation prior written notice.
12. protection of the environment Hydro will undertake activities permitted under this agreement having Regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures To minimize damage or disruption to the environment.
13. replacement right of way If a material change occurs to lands which for any reason makes the Continued use of any portion of the hydro right of way area unsuitable For the hydro purposes, then the nisg̱a'a nation will, without charge, Grant a replacement right of way to hydro for construction of the Replacement hydro works, as follows:
(a) hydro will, before undertaking any work, deliver a work plan to the Nisg̱a'a nation indicating the location of the contemplated replacement Right of way area, for approval by the nisg̱a'a nation which approval Will not be unreasonably withheld; (b) hydro will take into account the effect of the replacement right of Way area on adjacent nisg̱a'a lands, and any unique aspects of these Lands, and the nisg̱a'a nation will take into account the cost Efficiencies of the location selected by hydro for a replacement right Of way area in relation to alternative locations; (c) the replacement right of way agreement will be on the same terms and Conditions as this agreement, and the nisg̱a'a nation will use its best Efforts to ensure that the replacement right of way has the same Priority over other charges and encumbrances as this agreement; (d) hydro will execute a release of this agreement in relation to the Portions of the abandoned hydro right of way area.
Despite any provision of this paragraph, in an emergency hydro may, Without approval from the nisg̱a'a nation, enter on to nisg̱a'a lands to Undertake all work and take all steps as are reasonably required to be Taken immediately in order to restore electrical and telecommunication Services, or to ensure safety of persons and property that may be at Risk from hydro works. hydro will give notice as soon as reasonably Possible to the nisg̱a'a nation of any emergency entry.
14. entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside the hydro right of way area Hydro, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees and assignees, may enter onto nisg̱a'a lands outside the hydro Right of way area for the purpose of undertaking works to protect hydro Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from hydro Works, as follows:
(a) hydro will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan Describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on nisg̱a'a lands To the nisg̱a'a nation for approval; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the Work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the Cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions, The extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on The nisg̱a'a lands. if hydro and the nisg̱a'a nation cannot agree on a Work plan requested by hydro within 30 days of receipt by the nisg̱a'a Nation of the proposed work plan then either party may refer the Disagreement to dispute resolution under paragraph 21 of this agreement; (c) hydro will minimize damage to and time spent on nisg̱a'a lands; (d) hydro will pay fair compensation, as defined in the final agreement, For any interference with or damage to adjacent nisg̱a'a lands.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this agreement, in An emergency hydro may undertake works and take steps on nisg̱a'a lands As are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect Hydro works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from Hydro works, and in that event hydro will as soon as reasonably possible Notify the nisg̱a'a nation in writing.
15. entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside the crown roads right of way area The parties' rights and obligations as set out in paragraph 14 apply With respect to hydro works located on a crown roads right of way area.
16. relocation of hydro works If the nisg̱a'a nation requires a portion of a hydro right of way area For other purposes, then upon request by the nisg̱a'a nation hydro will Relocate any hydro right of way area including the related hydro works, To a new location as follows:
(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably Suitable for use for hydro works considering construction, maintenance And operation and costs; and (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will give reasonable notice to permit design, Planning and construction of the hydro works to be relocated; and (c) the nisg̱a'a nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of Design, supervision and construction.
The nisg̱a'a nation will extend the hydro right of way area as reasonably Required, so that the extended hydro right of way area has similar Priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original. when a Portion of a hydro right of way area is relocated then the hydro right Of way area for the portion that is abandoned will be terminated.
17. indemnity Hydro will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation from and Against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and Suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors, Arising out of:
(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by hydro of any of hydro's Covenants, conditions or obligations under this agreement; and (b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including Environmental damage, occurring on or to nisg̱a'a lands arising from Hydro's use or occupation of nisg̱a'a lands under this agreement, But not for any claims based on nuisance or the rule in Rylands v fletcher Unless hydro was negligent.
18. covenants of hydro Hydro covenants with the nisg̱a'a nation:
(a) to pay compensation to the nisg̱a'a nation for any damage to Buildings, crops (except for trees in the vegetation management area), Livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and Fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by hydro; (b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in Accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for All merchantable timber cut or damaged by hydro on nisg̱a'a lands on or Adjacent to the hydro right of way area, and the parties agree that on Payment, title to any timber cut on the nisg̱a'a lands under this Agreement vests in hydro; (c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the Account of hydro which relate to the hydro right of way area and which Hydro is liable to pay; (d) to keep the hydro right of way area, and any hydro works, in a safe, Clean and sanitary condition to the extent the condition relates to Hydro's use or occupation of the hydro right of way area, and on written Notice from the nisg̱a'a nation, to make safe, clean and sanitary any Portion of the hydro right of way area, or the hydro works that Contravene the provisions of this covenant, provided that hydro has no Obligation to keep the hydro right of way roads or access roads, Suitable for use by anyone except hydro; (e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron Pins located on the nisg̱a'a lands including the hydro right of way area; (f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on nisg̱a'a lands in Excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary Structures as backfilling proceeds; (g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as Not to unduly interfere with the drainage of the nisg̱a'a lands; (h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the hydro right of way area, or anything that may be or Become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the nisg̱a'a lands, Except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the hydro purposes; (i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Governmental authority which relate to the hydro right of way area; (j) to permit the nisg̱a'a nation to enter upon the hydro right of way Area at any time to examine its condition; (k) if for any reason this agreement terminates with respect to a Portion of the hydro right of way area, to:
(i) quit peaceably that portion of the hydro right of way area; (ii) decommission any hydro roads and restore the surface of that Portion of the hydro right of way area to a condition to which similar Lands are typically restored in the province of british columbia, unless Otherwise agreed to in writing by the nisg̱a'a nation and hydro at the Time of restoration; (iii) remove all above ground hydro works from that portion of the hydro Right of way area within a reasonable period of time and in any event Within 2 years, and any hydro works remaining on that portion of the Hydro right of way area will be absolutely forfeited to and become the Property of the nisg̱a'a nation. if the nisg̱a'a nation removes any Remaining above ground hydro works within 4 years, hydro will, on demand By the nisg̱a'a nation, reimburse the nisg̱a'a nation for all reasonable Costs of removal; and (iv) remain liable for any environmental damage to the nisg̱a'a lands Arising from any below ground hydro works that remain on or in that Portion of the hydro right of way area after termination, except that if The nisg̱a'a nation uses or authorizes the use of the remaining below Ground hydro works for any purpose then hydro will not be liable for any Environmental damage caused by the nisg̱a'a nation use, or authorized Use; and to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the Termination of this agreement; and (l) if hydro, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the Hydro right of way area, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to Minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the Nisg̱a'a nation.
19. covenants of the nisg̱a'a nation The nisg̱a'a nation covenants with hydro:
(a) not to use or authorize the use of the portions of the hydro right Of way area designated by hydro, acting reasonably, as "non-parking Areas" for the regular or organized parking of vehicles, provided that Nothing in this paragraph is intended to prevent safe temporary parking Of vehicles; (b) not to park or authorize to be parked on the hydro right of way area Any vehicle or equipment exceeding 25 feet in length under any conductor Of 500 kv or higher voltage, unless such vehicle is properly Grounded;
(c) not to use or authorize the use of the hydro right of way area for Fuelling any vehicle or equipment; (d) not to use or authorize the use of the hydro right of way area for Any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the Reasonable opinion of hydro would be unsafe or would interfere with Hydro's use of the hydro right of way area; (e) not to carry out blasting or aerial logging operations on or Immediately adjacent to the hydro right of way area without the prior Written permission from hydro, which permission will not be unreasonably Withheld or delayed; and (f) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures Or endangers the hydro works.
20. licence Hydro will not licence the use of the hydro right of way area, in whole Or in part, without the prior written consent of the nisg̱a'a nation Provided that:
(a) hydro may grant a licence to bc tel for the use of the hydro right Of way area without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation may attach conditions to its consent to any Licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form And amount acceptable to the nisg̱a'a nation; and (c) no licence will act as a release of any of hydro's obligations as Set out in this agreement.
21. disputes Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this agreement will be Resolved as follows:
(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith Negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts, Information and documents; (b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the Dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable About the matters in dispute; (c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to Mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties, The dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer The matter to a court of competent jurisdiction; Except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to Apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or Conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.
22. notice If notice is required or permitted under this agreement, the notice:
(a) must be in writing; (b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as Specified in writing by a party; (c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:
(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received On the next business day; (ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next Business day; or (iii) mailed by pre-paid post in canada, and it will be deemed received On the eighth business day following.
23. runs with the land This agreement runs with and binds nisg̱a'a lands, to the extent Reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this agreement.
24. waiver and consent A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be Construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. consent to or approval Of any act, where consent or approval is required under this agreement, Will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.
25. remedies No remedy set out in this agreement is exclusive of any other remedy Provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at Law, in equity, or by statute.
26. successors and assigns The terms and provisions of this agreement will extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and Assigns.
27. interpretation In this agreement:
(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this agreement; (b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the Plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a Corporation;
(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as Defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this agreement; (d) a reference to an enactment of british columbia or of canada will be Deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or Replacements; and (e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent Jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be Considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of The remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.
In witness thereof the parties have duly executed this agreement, as of The date first referred to above.
Nisg̱a'a nation Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________
British columbia hydro and power authority Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________
Schedule a – description of hydro right of way area Appendix c-3 Document 2
Grant of right of way and licence for Telecommunications to Bc tel This agreement is dated ______________________________ , ____________________ Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation [insert address] (the "nisg̱a'a nation") And:
Bc tel , a corporation under the laws of canada [insert address] ("bc tel") Whereas:
A.
The nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia have entered into the Nisg̱a'a final agreement.
B.
The nisg̱a'a nation wishes to grant to bc tel rights on nisg̱a'a lands for Bc tel works existing on nisg̱a'a lands on the effective date.
Therefore for good and valuable consideration the nisg̱a'a nation and bc Tel agree as follows:
1. definitions "final agreement" Means the nisg̱a'a final agreement between the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and British columbia.
"bc tel purposes" Means telecommunications.
"bc tel works" Means poles, towers, antennae (except for monopole free standing Antennae), anchors, guy wires, brackets, cross arms, insulators, Transformers, overhead and underground conductors, wires, lines and Cables, underground conduits and pipes, access nodes, all ancillary Appliances and fittings, reasonably required associated protective Installations and related works such as fencing for safety or security, Devices and identifying colours for aircraft warning, and utility Services for the operation of any of the foregoing.
"bc tel right of way area" Means those portions of nisg̱a'a lands as described in schedule a Attached to this agreement.
"hydro" Means british columbia hydro and power authority, and its successors and Assigns.
"licensed bc tel works" Means, collectively, any bc tel works, and any access roads within the Bc tel right of way area, that, on the effective date, are located on Nisg̱a'a lands outside of:
(a) a crown road right of way area; (b) a bc tel right of way area,; or (c) a right of way area granted to hydro on which bc tel is hydro's Licensee;
(d) an area in respect of which, on the effective date, the nisg̱a'a Nation grants bctel rights under a separate instrument.
2. relationship to final agreement This agreement is made under the final agreement, and defined terms in The final agreement will have the same meaning in this agreement.
3. rights on bc tel right of way area The nisg̱a'a nation grants to bc tel, and its employees, representatives, Agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and Uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, for bc tel purposes, as Follows:
(a) to construct, excavate for, erect, string, or otherwise install, Operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and replace bc tel Works over, upon and under the bc tel right of way area; (b) to trim or remove all or any trees, growth or vegetation now or Hereafter on the bc tel right of way area that may in the reasonable Opinion of bc tel create a hazard or interfere with the bc tel works or The carrying out of any of the bc tel purposes, except that bc tel shall Take all reasonable steps, including where appropriate planting of Suitable replacement vegetation, to avoid erosion or other damage; (c) to conduct vegetation management upon the bc tel right of way area, Such as the planting of vegetation compatible with use for bc tel Purposes, and the application of herbicides and pesticides provided That:
(i) bc tel will not conduct any aerial application of herbicides or Pesticides on the bc tel right of way area or other nisg̱a'a lands; and (ii) bc tel will obtain all permits and approvals as required by Authorities having jurisdiction, including any such permits or approvals Required by the nisg̱a'a nation, for the use of any herbicides or Pesticides;
(d) to clear the bc tel right of way area and keep it cleared of all or Any part of any obstructions that may in the reasonable opinion of bc Tel create a hazard or interfere with the bc tel works or the carrying Out of any of the bc tel purposes; (e) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by Others which are now or hereafter shall be on the bc tel right of way Area;
(f) to pass and repass over the bc tel right of way area with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by bc tel, and To construct, maintain, repair, replace and use trails, roads and Bridges on the bc tel right of way area as reasonably required to obtain Access to the bc tel works; and to generally do all acts or things Necessary in connection with the foregoing.
4. non exclusive use This agreement will not entitle bc tel to exclusive possession of the bc Tel right of way area or other parts of the nisg̱a'a lands and the Nisg̱a'a nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the bc Tel right of way area so long as the grant does not materially affect The exercise of bc tel's rights under this agreement.
5. hydro Bc tel will cooperate and enter into agreements with hydro in the same Manner as hydro and bc tel cooperate and enter into agreements elsewhere In british columbia, to share the use of poles, ducts and other works.
6. licence for bc tel works located outside rights of way The nisg̱a'a nation grants to bc tel, and its employees, representatives, Agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, as of the effective date, A licence for all licensed bc tel works to use and occupy nisg̱a'a lands On the following terms:
(a) the licence is irrevocable so long as bc tel requires the use of the Licensed bc tel works for bc tel purposes, unless the licensed Bc tel works are included within a crown road right of way area or Bc tel right of way area under this paragraph; (b) for the licensed bc tel works, bc tel holds the same rights, Privileges and obligations, including all indemnity obligations, as Apply to bc tel for the use of the bc tel right of way area under this Agreement, and including the right of reasonable access onto the nisg̱a'a Lands for the purpose of gaining access to the licensed bc tel works; (c) if at any time in the course of maintenance or operations bc tel Replaces or makes significant repairs to licensed bc tel works which are Adjacent to a crown road right of way area or a bc tel right of way area Then, upon written notice from the nisg̱a'a nation and provided the Relocation does not result in significant increased costs, and for a Crown road right of way area if the relocation is acceptable to british Columbia, bc tel will relocate the licensed bc tel works on to the Adjacent right of way area, and the licence for those licensed bc tel Works will be terminated; (d) the nisg̱a'a nation may at any time at no cost to bc tel require bc Tel to enter into an agreement to extend the bc tel right of way area so As to incorporate within the bc tel right of way area any licensed bc Tel works designated by the nisg̱a'a nation and upon the appropriate Extension of the bc tel right of way area the licence for those licensed Bc tel works will be terminated; (e) the nisg̱a'a nation may at any time require bc tel to relocate Licensed bc tel works designated by the nisg̱a'a nation to another Location on nisg̱a'a lands including on to an adjacent crown road right Of way area if acceptable to british columbia, or to a bc tel right of Way area and in that event:
(i) if the new location is reasonably suitable for use for bc tel works Considering construction, maintenance and operation and costs Bc tel will proceed with the relocation; (ii) the nisg̱a'a nation will give reasonable notice to permit design, Planning and construction of the bc tel works to be relocated; (iii) the nisg̱a'a nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs Of design, supervision and construction; and (iv) upon relocation, this licence is extended to the relocated bc tel Works, except if the relocated bc tel works are located on a crown road Right of way area or a bc tel right of way area, then the license for Those bc tel works will be terminated.
7. duration The rights, liberties and rights of way granted under this agreement are For so long as required and will terminate, without compensation to bc Tel, when bc tel no longer requires the bc tel right of way area, and:
(a) bc tel gives 90 days written notice to the nisg̱a'a nation; or (b) the nisg̱a'a nation gives 90 days written notice to bc tel.
8. work plans for bc tel works Except in an emergency bc tel will provide to the nisg̱a'a nation a Written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a bc tel Right of way area prior to undertaking any of the following work:
(a) installation of any new telecommunication lines; (b) relocation of any telecommunication lines; (c) trimming or removal of any trees, growth or vegetation on or Adjacent to a bc tel right of way area; (d) constructing any new trails, roads or bridges on the bc tel right of Way area.
Bc tel will provide the work plan in time to afford the nisg̱a'a nation The opportunity to comment, and bc tel will use reasonable efforts to Accommodate any suggestions or requests presented by the nisg̱a'a nation Provided they do not result in significant increased costs.
9. insurance and security If british columbia requires bc tel to carry insurance, to provide Security, or both, in relation to rights of way granted to bc tel by British columbia, then on request of the nisg̱a'a nation, bc tel will Obtain insurance, security, or both, for the benefit of the nisg̱a'a Nation on terms substantially the same as required by british columbia.
10. access to bc tel rights of way If for any reason bc tel is unable to obtain reasonable access to any bc Tel works from the bc tel right of way area, a crown road, a nisg̱a'a Road or a bc tel private access right of way, then the nisg̱a'a nation Will, where land access is reasonably practicable, on application from Bc tel, grant bc tel the right to cross nisg̱a'a lands to provide bc tel Access on terms substantially the same as contained in document 3 of Appendix c-4 to the final agreement.
11. protection of the environment Bc tel will undertake activities permitted under this agreement having Regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures To minimize damage or disruption to the environment.
12. replacement right of way If a material change occurs to lands which for any reason makes the Continued use of any portion of the bc tel right of way area unsuitable For the bc tel purposes, then the nisg̱a'a nation will, without charge, Grant a replacement right of way to bc tel for construction of the Replacement bc tel works, as follows:
(a) bc tel will, before undertaking any work, deliver a work plan to the Nisg̱a'a nation indicating the location of the contemplated replacement Right of way area, for approval by the nisg̱a'a nation which approval Will not be unreasonably withheld; (b) bc tel will take into account the effect of the replacement right of Way area on adjacent nisg̱a'a lands, and any unique aspects of these Lands, and the nisg̱a'a nation will take into account the cost Efficiencies of the location selected by bc tel for a replacement right Of way area in relation to alternative locations; (c) the replacement right of way agreement will be on the same terms and Conditions as this agreement, and the nisg̱a'a nation will use its best Efforts to ensure that the replacement right of way has the same Priority over other charges and encumbrances as this agreement; (d) bc tel will execute a release of this agreement in relation to the Portions of the abandoned bc tel right of way area.
Despite any provision of this paragraph, in an emergency bc tel may, Without approval from the nisg̱a'a nation, enter on to nisg̱a'a lands to Undertake all work and take all steps as are reasonably required to be Taken immediately in order to restore electrical and telecommunication Services, or to ensure safety of persons and property that may be at Risk from bc tel works. bc tel will give notice as soon as reasonably Possible to the nisg̱a'a nation of any emergency entry.
13. entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside the bc tel right of way area Bc tel, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees and assignees, may enter onto nisg̱a'a lands outside the bc tel Right of way area for the purpose of undertaking works to protect bc tel Works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk from bc Tel works, as follows:
(a) bc tel will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan Describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on nisg̱a'a lands To the nisg̱a'a nation for approval; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the Work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the Cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions, The extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on The nisg̱a'a lands. if bc tel and the nisg̱a'a nation cannot agree on a Work plan requested by bc tel within 30 days of receipt by the nisg̱a'a Nation of the proposed work plan then either party may refer the Disagreement to dispute resolution under paragraph 21 of this agreement; (c) bc tel will minimize the damage to and time spent on nisg̱a'a lands; (d) bc tel will pay fair compensation, as defined in the final Agreement, for any interference with or damage to adjacent nisg̱a'a Lands.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this agreement, in An emergency bc tel may undertake works and take steps on nisg̱a'a lands As are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect Bc tel works, or to protect persons and property that may be at risk From bc tel works, and in that event bc tel will as soon as reasonably Possible notify the nisg̱a'a nation in writing.
14. entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside the crown roads right of way area The parties' rights and obligations as set out in paragraph 13 apply With respect to bc tel works located on a crown road right of way Area.
15. relocation of bc tel works If the nisg̱a'a nation requires a portion of a bc tel right of way area For other purposes, then upon request by the nisg̱a'a nation, bc tel will Relocate any bc tel right of way area including the related bc tel Works, to a new location as follows:
(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably Suitable for use for bc tel works considering construction, maintenance And operation and costs; and (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will give reasonable notice to permit design, Planning and construction of the bc tel works to be relocated; and (c) the nisg̱a'a nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of Design, supervision and construction.
The nisg̱a'a nation will extend the bc tel right of way area as Reasonably required, so that the extended bc tel right of way area has Similar priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original.
When a portion of a bc tel right of way area is relocated then the bc Tel right of way area for the portion that is abandoned will be Terminated.
16. indemnity Bc tel will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation from and Against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and Suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors, Arising out of:
(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by bc tel of any of bc Tel's covenants, conditions or obligations under this agreement; and (b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including Environmental damage, occurring on or to nisg̱a'a lands arising from bc Tel's use or occupation of nisg̱a'a lands under this agreement.
17. covenants of bc tel Bc tel covenants with the nisg̱a'a nation:
(a) to pay compensation to the nisg̱a'a nation for any damage to Buildings, crops (except for trees in the bc tel right of way area), Livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and Fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by bc tel; (b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in Accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for All merchantable timber cut or damaged by bc tel on nisg̱a'a lands on or Adjacent to the bc tel right of way area, and the parties agree that, on Payment, title to any timber cut on the nisg̱a'a lands under this Agreement vests in bc tel; (c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the Account of bc tel which relate to the bc tel right of way area and which Bc tel is liable to pay; (d) to keep the bc tel right of way area, and any bc tel works, in a Safe, clean and sanitary condition to the extent the condition relates To bc tel's use or occupation of the bc tel right of way area, and on Written notice from the nisg̱a'a nation, to make safe, clean and sanitary Any portion of the bc tel right of way area, or the bc tel works that Contravene the provisions of this covenant; (e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron Pins located on the nisg̱a'a lands including the bc tel right of way Area;
(f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on nisg̱a'a lands in Excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary Structures as backfilling proceeds; (g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as Not to unduly interfere with the drainage of the nisg̱a'a lands; (h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the bc tel right of way area, or anything that may be or Become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the nisg̱a'a lands, Except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the bc tel purposes; (i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Governmental authority which relate to the bc tel right of way area; (j) to permit the nisg̱a'a nation to enter upon the bc tel right of way Area at any time to examine its condition; (k) if for any reason this agreement terminates with respect to a Portion of the bc tel right of way area, to:
(i) quit peaceably that portion of the bc tel right of way area; (ii) decommission any bc tel roads and restore the surface of that Portion of the bc tel right of way area to a condition to which similar Lands are typically restored in the province of british columbia, unless Otherwise agreed to in writing by the nisg̱a'a nation and bc tel at the Time of restoration; (iii) remove all above ground bc tel works from that portion of the bc Tel right of way area within a reasonable period of time and in any Event within 2 years, and any bc tel works remaining on that portion of The bc tel right of way area will be absolutely forfeited to and become The property of the nisg̱a'a nation. if the nisga'a nation removes any Remaining above ground bc tel works within 4 years, bc tel will, on Demand by the nisg̱a'a nation, reimburse the nisg̱a'a nation for all Reasonable costs of removal; and (iv) remain liable for any environmental damage to the nisg̱a'a lands Arising from any below ground bc tel works that remain on or in that Portion of the bc tel right of way area after termination, except that If the nisg̱a'a nation uses or authorizes the use of the remaining below Ground bc tel works for any purpose than bc tel will not be liable For any environmental damage caused by the nisg̱a'a nation use, or Authorized use; And to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the termination Of this agreement; and (l) if bc tel, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the bc Tel right of way area, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to Minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the Nisg̱a'a nation.
18. covenants of the nisg̱a'a nation The nisg̱a'a nation covenants with bc tel:
(a) not to use or authorize the use of the bc tel right of way area for Any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the Reasonable opinion of bc tel would be unsafe or would interfere with Bc tel's use of the bc tel right of way area; (b) not to carry out blasting or aerial logging operations on or Immediately adjacent to the bc tel right of way area without the prior Written permission from bc tel, which permission will not be Unreasonably withheld or delayed; and (c) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures Or endangers the bc tel works.
19. licence Bc tel will not licence the use of the bc tel right of way area, in Whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the nisg̱a'a Nation provided that:
(a) bc tel may, despite any limitations in the grants and authorizations To bc tel in this agreement, grant a licence to hydro for the use Of the bc tel right of way area for the transmission and Distribution of electric energy and telecommunications, without the Consent of the nisg̱a'a nation. any licence to hydro will be deemed to Include the right, exclusively for hydro's benefit, to remove any tree Located on nisg̱a'a lands which by falling or otherwise may endanger any Of hydro's works, and, except in an emergency, hydro will be required to Give the nisg̱a'a nation prior written notice of the exercise of this Right outside the bc tel right of way area; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation may attach conditions to its consent to any Licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form And amount acceptable to the nisg̱a'a nation; and (c) no licence will act as a release of any of bc tel's obligations as Set out in this agreement.
20. assignment Despite paragraph 19, bc tel may, without the consent of the nisg̱a'a Nation, assign its interest in this agreement to an affiliate (as Defined in the Company act ) of bc tel provided that bc tel gives 120 days notice in writing Of this change.
21. disputes Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this agreement will be Resolved as follows:
(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith Negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts, Information and documents; (b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the Dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable About the matters in dispute; (c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to Mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties, The dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer The matter to a court of competent jurisdiction; Except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to Apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or Conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.
22. notice If notice is required or permitted under this agreement, the notice:
(a) must be in writing; (b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as Specified in writing by a party; (c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:
(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received On the next business day; (ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next Business day; or (iii) mailed by pre-paid post in canada, and it will be deemed received On the eighth business day following.
23. runs with the land This agreement runs with and binds nisg̱a'a lands, to the extent Reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this agreement.
24. waiver and consent A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be Construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. consent to or approval Of any act, where consent or approval is required under this agreement, Will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.
25. remedies No remedy set out in this agreement is exclusive of any other remedy Provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at Law, in equity, or by statute.
26. successors and assigns The terms and provisions of this agreement will extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and Assigns.
27. interpretation In this agreement:
(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this agreement; (b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the Plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a Corporation;
(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as Defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this agreement; (d) a reference to an enactment of british columbia or of canada will be Deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or Replacements; and (e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent Jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be Considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of The remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.
In witness thereof the parties have duly executed this agreement, as of The date first referred to above.
Nisg̱a'a nation Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________
Bc tel Per:______________________________
Per:______________________________
Schedule a – description of bc tel right of way area Appendix c-4 Applicable forms of document for roads listed In part 3 of appendix c-1 Document 1
Grant of right of way for secondary provincial roads; Document 2
Grant of private road easement; and Document 3
Grant of right of way for access roads to british columbia hydro And power authority (hydro).
Appendix c-4 Document 1
Grant of right of way for Secondary provincial roads This grant of right of way made the __________ day of __________ , ____ Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation [insert address] ("nisg̱a'a nation") And:
Her majesty the queen in right of the province of british columbia, As represented by the minister of transportation and highways [insert address] ("british columbia") Whereas:
A.
The nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia have entered into the Nisg̱a'a final agreement.
B.
The nisg̱a'a nation wishes to grant rights of way over areas of nisg̱a'a Lands for secondary provincial roads.
Therefore for good and valuable consideration the nisg̱a'a nation and British columbia agree as follows:
1. grant of right of way.
The nisg̱a'a nation hereby grants a right of way to british columbia for The secondary provincial road right of way areas described in schedule a Attached to this grant of right of way.
2. incorporation by reference.
This grant of right of way incorporates by reference all provisions of The roads and rights of way chapter of the nisg̱a'a final agreement Relating to secondary provincial roads and rights of way for those Roads.
3. other provisions.
(a) Notice.
Any notice required under this grant of right of way:
(i) must be in writing; (ii) must be delivered to the address set out above, or to another Address specified in writing by a party; and (iii) may be given in one or more of the following ways:
(a) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed to be Received on the next business day; (b) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed to be received on the next Business day; or (c) mailed by pre-paid post in canada, and it will be deemed received on The eighth business day following.
(b) Runs with the land.
This grant of right of way runs with and binds the nisg̱a'a lands, to the Extent reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this grant.
(c) Interpretation.
In this grant of right of way:
(i) all attached schedules form an integral part of this grant; (ii) headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as Defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this grant.
In witness thereof the parties have duly executed this agreement, as of The date first referred to above.
Nisg̱a'a nation Per:____________________
Per:____________________
Her majesty the queen in right of the province of british columbia, As represented by the minister of transportation and highways Per:____________________
Per:____________________
Schedule a – description of secondary provincial road Right of way areas Appendix c-4 Document 2
Grant of private road easement This agreement is dated ____________________ , __________ Between:
[nisg̱a'a nation or nisg̱a'a village] (to be determined on execution) [insert address] (the "owner") And:
Of
[insert address] (the "grantee") Whereas:
A.
The grantee wishes an easement over the servient lands to provide access To the grantee's property.
B.
The owner is willing to grant to the grantee an easement over the Servient lands to provide access to the grantee's property.
Therefore in consideration of the payment of the fee to be paid by the Grantee, and the grantee's covenants as set out in this agreement, the Owner and grantee agree as follows:
1. definitions "grantee's property" Means the lands described in schedule a attached to this agreement.
"easement area" Means that portion of the servient lands as described in schedule b Attached to this agreement.
"security" Means the security for the performance of the grantee's obligations as Set out in paragraph 11 in the amount of $__________________.
"servient lands" Means the lands described in schedule b attached to this agreement.
"special conditions" Means the conditions, if any, set out in schedule c attached to this Agreement.
2. rights and privileges on easement area By this agreement the owner grants to the grantee, and its invitees, Permittees, representatives, employees, and agents, their heirs, Executors, administrators and assigns, the full, free and uninterrupted Easement, right and liberty over the easement area to enter on and use The easement area for the purpose of constructing and maintaining (including trimming or removing trees and vegetation) a road and using The easement area as a road to give pedestrian and vehicular access to The grantee's property.
3. duration This easement is appurtenant to the grantee's property and passes with a Conveyance or other disposition of the estate in fee simple of the Grantee's property, and is binding on the servient lands.
4. annual fee The grantee will pay the owner an annual fee in advance in the amount of $________ to cover the owner's costs of administering this agreement.
5. covenant The obligation of the grantee in this agreement constitutes both Contractual obligations and covenants under section 219 of the Land title act In respect of the grantee's property and runs with the grantee's Property and binds successors in title.
6. non exclusive use This agreement will not entitle the grantee to exclusive possession of The easement area and the owner reserves the right to grant other Dispositions of the easement area so long as the grant does not impair The grantee's permitted use of the easement area.
7. covenants of the grantee The grantee covenants with the owner:
(a) to pay the annual fee as described in paragraph 4 at the address of The owner set out above or at such other place as the owner may specify Under paragraph 14; (b) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged which Relate to the easement area or any of the grantee's improvements on the Easement area which the grantee is liable to pay; (c) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Government authority, including an owner government, in any way Affecting the easement area and improvements situate thereon, or their Use and occupation; (d) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the easement area or do or suffer to be done thereon by Its invitees, permittees, representatives, employees, or agents, or Anyone for whom the grantee is responsible at law, anything that may be Or becomes a nuisance; (e) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on the easement area; (f) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the easement area, or anything that may be or become a Nuisance or annoyance to the servient lands; (g) to deliver to the owner from time to time, upon demand, proof of Insurance required under this agreement, receipts or other evidence of Payment of any taxes or charges owning, and other monetary obligations Of the grantee required to be observed by the grantee pursuant to this Agreement;
(h) to indemnify and save harmless the owner against all losses, Damages, costs and liabilities, including fees of solicitors and other Professional advisors, arising out of:
(i) any breach, violation or non-performance of any covenant, condition Or obligation under this agreement by the grantee; and (ii) any personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out of the Grantee's use or occupation of the easement area under this agreement, And the owner may add the amount of any losses, damages, costs and Liabilities to the fees payable under paragraph 4, and the amount added Will be payable to the owner immediately.
(i) to keep the easement area in a safe, clean and sanitary condition Satisfactory to the owner acting reasonably, and to make safe, clean and Sanitary any portion of the easement area or any improvement thereon That the owner, acting reasonably, may direct by notice in writing to The grantee; (j) to permit the owner or its authorized representative to enter upon The easement area at any time to examine its condition; (k) to use and occupy the easement area in accordance with the Provisions of this agreement including the special conditions, if any, Set out in schedule c; (l) on the expiration or at the earlier cancellation of this agreement:
(i) to quit peaceably and deliver possession of the easement area to the Owner;
(ii) to de-commission the road, including the removal of any structures Or works on the easement area, and restore the surface of the easement Area to the satisfaction of the owner acting reasonably; And to the extent necessary, this covenant shall survive the expiration Or cancellation of this agreement; (m) to obtain and keep in force insurance covering the owner and the Grantee (without any rights of cross-claim or subrogation against the Owner) against claims for personal injury, death, property damage or Third party or public liability claims arising from any accident or Occurrence on the easement area to an amount not less than $1,000,000.00; (n) notwithstanding subparagraph (m), the owner may from time to time, Acting reasonably, considering the amount of insurance a prudent owner Would carry, require the grantee to increase the amount of insurance and The grantee will, within 60 days of receiving the request, obtain the Required additional insurance and deliver to the owner written Confirmation of the change; (o) not to interfere with the activities, works or other improvements of Any other person who enters on or uses or occupies the easement area Under a subsequent right or interest granted by the owner, or who is Otherwise authorized by the owner to enter on or use or occupy the Easement area, in accordance with paragraph 6; and (p) if the grantee, or its agents, contractors or representatives, Discover any archaeological material on the easement area, to take all Reasonable steps and precautions to minimize disturbance of that Material, and to immediately notify the owner.
8. cancellation Despite any other provision of this agreement, this agreement may be Cancelled if the grantee fails or refuses to observe or perform any term In this agreement, and the failure continues after the owner gives Written notice of the failure to the grantee for a period of:
(a) 30 days; or (b) 150 days, if the failure because of its nature reasonably requires More than 30 days to cure, and provided that the grantee proceeds Diligently and continuously to cure the failure Then the owner may by further written notice to the grantee cancel this Agreement and despite paragraph 7 (l), any fixtures to the easement Area will, at the discretion of the owner, become the property of the Owner.
9. relocation of easement area If the owner requires the easement area for another purpose, the owner May, on 180 days written notice to the grantee and in consultation with The grantee:
(a) at its cost locate and construct an alternate road providing access To the grantee's property to a standard at least equivalent to the Original road; (b) grant a replacement agreement for the alternate road on the same Terms as this agreement; and (c) by further written notice to the grantee cancel this agreement; And on cancellation the grantee will quit peaceably and deliver Possession of the easement area, except that the grantee may, at its Election, within 60 days of the cancellation, or such longer time as Reasonably required, remove any fixtures from the easement area, but the Grantee will not be required to comply with Paragraph 7 (l) (ii).
10. third party notice The owner will not dispose of, or agree to dispose of, the servient Lands without first notifying any intended purchaser of the existence of This agreement.
11. ownership of commercially valuable timber All timber of commercial value on the easement area will remain the Property of the owner.
12. security The grantee will deliver the security to the owner within 30 days of the Commencement of this agreement, and in any event prior to the grantee's Use of the easement area, as security for the performance of the Grantee's obligations under this agreement, and the following will Apply:
(a) the grantee will maintain the security in full until the later of:
(i) the termination of this agreement; or (ii) the complete fulfillment of all of the grantee's obligations under This agreement; (b) if the grantee defaults in the performance of any of its obligations Under this agreement, the owner may, in its sole election, draw on and Use the security to reimburse the owner for all reasonable costs and Expenses, including legal and other professional services costs if any, Caused by or arising out of the grantee's breach, and in the event of a Call on the security the grantee will, as a condition of the Continuation of this agreement, immediately pay to the owner the amount Of the draw so that the full amount of the security is available.
13. disputes Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this agreement will be Resolved as follows:
(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith Negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts, Information and documents; (b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the Dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable About the matters in dispute; (c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to Mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties, The dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer The matter to the courts; Except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to Apply to a court at any time for interim or conservatory relief, and for The court to grant that relief.
14. notice If notice is required or permitted under this agreement, the notice:
(a) must be in writing; (b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as Specified in writing by a party; and (c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:
(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received On the next business day; (ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next Business day; or (iii) mailed by pre-paid post in canada, and it will be deemed received On the eighth business day following.
15. waiver and consent A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be Construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. consent to or approval Of any act, where consent or approval is required under this agreement, Will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.
16. remedies No remedy set out in this agreement is exclusive of any other remedy Provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at Law, in equity, or by statute.
17. enurement The terms and provisions of this agreement shall extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors And permitted assigns.
18. interpretation In this agreement:
(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this agreement; (b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the Plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a Corporation;
(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as Defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of the agreement; (d) a reference to an enactment of british columbia or of canada will be Deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or Replacements; and (e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent Jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be Considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of The remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.
In witness thereof the parties have duly executed this agreement, as of The date first referred to above.
Nisg̱a'a nation Per:____________________
Per:____________________
Grantee
Per:____________________
(authorized signatory of grantee) Schedule a – description of grantee's property Schedule b – description of both servient lands and easement area Schedule c – special conditions Appendix c-4 Document 3
Grant of right of way for access roads to British columbia hydro and power authority This agreement is dated ____________________ , __________ Between:
Nisg̱a'a nation [insert address] (the "nisg̱a'a nation") And:
British columbia hydro and power authority, Continued under the Hydro and power authority act , rsbc 1996, c. 212 [insert address] ("hydro") Whereas:
A.
The nisg̱a'a nation, canada and british columbia have entered into the Nisg̱a'a final agreement.
B.
The nisg̱a'a nation wish to grant to hydro rights on nisg̱a'a lands for Certain roads existing on nisg̱a'a lands on the effective date.
Therefore for good and valuable consideration the nisg̱a'a nation and Hydro agree as follows:
1. definitions "bc tel" Means bc tel, and its successors and assigns.
"final agreement" Means the nisg̱a'a final agreement between the nisg̱a'a nation, canada and British columbia.
"hydro access roads" Means trails or roads that provide access to a hydro right of way or Works, including surfacing, bridges, drainage and support works, and Other works required to maintain the integrity of the travelled surface.
"hydro access road areas" Means those portions of nisg̱a'a lands as described in schedule a Attached to this agreement.
"hydro purposes" Means the transmission and distribution of electric energy and Telecommunications.
2. relationship to final agreement This agreement is made under the final agreement, and defined terms in The final agreement will have the same meaning in this agreement.
3. rights on hydro access road areas The nisg̱a'a nation grants to hydro, and its employees, representatives, Agents, contractors, licensees and assignees, the full, free and Uninterrupted right, liberty and right of way, as follows:
(a) to construct, operate, maintain, repair, alter, upgrade, remove and Replace hydro access roads, and remove and trim trees, vegetation and Obstructions, on the hydro access road areas; (b) to install, maintain and use gates in all fences constructed by Others which are now or hereafter shall be on the hydro access road Areas;
(c) to pass and repass over the hydro access road areas with or without Equipment, machinery and materials as reasonably required by hydro; and (d) to generally do all acts or things necessary in connection with the Foregoing.
4. non exclusive use This agreement will not entitle hydro to exclusive possession of the Hydro access road areas or other parts of the nisg̱a'a lands and the Nisg̱a'a nation reserves the right to grant other dispositions of the Hydro access road areas so long as the grant does not materially affect The exercise of hydro's rights under this agreement.
5. duration In respect of a hydro access road area, the rights, liberties and rights Of way granted under this agreement are for so long as required and will Terminate, without compensation to hydro, when:
(a) the hydro right of way that the hydro access road area serves Terminates; or (b) hydro no longer requires the hydro access road areas, and:
(i) hydro gives 90 days written notice to the nisg̱a'a nation; or (ii) the nisg̱a'a nation gives 90 days written notice to hydro.
6. work plans for hydro access roads Except in an emergency, hydro will provide to the nisg̱a'a nation a Written work plan describing proposed work on or related to a hydro Access road area prior to undertaking the construction or development of Any hydro access road. hydro will provide the work plan in time to Afford the nisg̱a'a nation the opportunity to comment, and hydro will use Reasonable efforts to accommodate any suggestions or requests presented By the nisg̱a'a nation provided they do not result in significant Increased costs.
7. protection of the environment Hydro will undertake activities permitted under this agreement having Regard for the impact on the environment, and will take prudent measures To minimize damage or disruption to the environment.
8. entry on nisg̱a'a lands outside the hydro right of way areas Hydro, and its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees and assignees, may enter onto nisg̱a'a lands outside the hydro Access road areas for the purpose of undertaking works to protect hydro Access roads, or to protect persons and property, as follows:
(a) hydro will before commencing any work deliver a written work plan Describing the effect and extent of the proposed work on nisg̱a'a lands To the nisg̱a'a nation for approval; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will not unreasonably withhold approval of the Work plan, considering the effect of the proposed work, including the Cost of the proposed works compared to the cost of alternate solutions, The extent of the risk of not undertaking the work, and the impact on The nisg̱a'a lands. if hydro and the nisg̱a'a nation cannot agree on a Work plan requested by hydro within 30 days of receipt by the nisg̱a'a Nation of the proposed work plan, then either party may refer the Disagreement to dispute resolution under paragraph 14 of this agreement; (c) hydro will minimize the damage to and time spent on nisg̱a'a lands; (d) hydro will pay fair compensation, as defined in the final agreement, For any interference with or damage to adjacent nisg̱a'a lands.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this paragraph or this agreement, in An emergency hydro may undertake works and take steps on nisg̱a'a lands As are reasonably required to be taken immediately in order to protect Hydro access roads, and in that event hydro will as soon as reasonably Possible notify the nisg̱a'a nation in writing.
9. relocation of hydro access road areas If the nisg̱a'a nation requires a portion of a hydro access road area for Another purpose, then upon request by the nisg̱a'a nation, hydro will Relocate any hydro access road area, including the related hydro access Road, to a new location as follows:
(a) the relocation will proceed only if the new location is reasonably Suitable for use for a hydro access road considering construction, Maintenance and operation and costs; and (b) the nisg̱a'a nation will give reasonable notice to permit design, Planning and construction of the hydro access road to be relocated; and (c) the nisg̱a'a nation will pay all reasonable costs, including costs of Design, supervision and construction.
The nisg̱a'a nation will extend a hydro access road area as reasonably Required, so that the extended hydro access road area has similar Priority over other charges and encumbrances as the original. when a Portion of a hydro access road area is relocated, then the hydro access Road area for the portion that is abandoned will be terminated.
10. indemnity Hydro will indemnify and save harmless the nisg̱a'a nation from and Against all losses, damages, costs, liabilities, claims, expenses, and Suits, including fees of solicitors and other professional advisors, Arising out of:
(a) any breach, violation or non-performance by hydro of any of hydro's Covenants, conditions or obligations under this agreement; and (b) any personal injury, death, or property damage, including Environmental damage, occurring on or to nisg̱a'a lands arising from Hydro's use or occupation of nisg̱a'a lands under this agreement, But not for any claims based on nuisance or the rule in Rylands v fletcher Unless hydro was negligent.
11. covenants of hydro Hydro covenants with the nisg̱a'a nation:
(a) to pay compensation to the nisg̱a'a nation for any damage to Buildings, crops (except for trees in the hydro access road areas), Livestock, drains, ditches, culverts, fences, trails, bridges, roads and Fruit, nut or ornamental trees caused by hydro; (b) despite subparagraph (a), to pay compensation to its owner, in Accordance with generally accepted principles of timber valuation, for All merchantable timber cut or damaged by hydro on nisg̱a'a lands on or Adjacent to the hydro access road areas, and the parties agree that, on Payment, title to any timber cut on the nisg̱a'a lands under this Agreement vests in hydro; (c) to pay and discharge when due all applicable taxes, levies, charges And assessments now or hereafter assessed, levied or charged to the Account of hydro which relate to the hydro access road areas and which Hydro is liable to pay; (d) to keep the hydro access road areas in a safe, clean and sanitary Condition to the extent the condition relates to hydro's use or Occupation, and on written notice from the nisg̱a'a nation to make safe, Clean and sanitary any portion of the hydro access road areas that Contravene the provisions of this covenant, provided that hydro has no Obligation to keep the hydro access roads suitable for use by anyone Except hydro; (e) not to disturb or interfere with any survey monuments, bars or iron Pins located on the nisg̱a'a lands including the hydro access road areas; (f) not to bury debris or rubbish of any kind on nisg̱a'a lands in Excavations or backfill, and to remove shoring and similar temporary Structures as backfilling proceeds; (g) to bury and maintain all underground works as may be required so as Not to unduly interfere with the drainage of nisg̱a'a lands; (h) not to commit or suffer any wilful or voluntary waste, spoil or Destruction on the hydro access road areas, or anything that may be or Become a nuisance or annoyance to the owners of the nisg̱a'a lands, Except to the extent necessary to carry out any of the matters under This agreement; (i) to observe, abide by and comply with all applicable laws, bylaws, Orders, directions, ordinances and regulations of any competent Governmental authority which relate to the hydro access road areas; (j) to permit the nisg̱a'a nation to enter upon the hydro access road Areas at any time to examine its condition; (k) if for any reason this agreement terminates with respect to a Portion of the hydro access road areas, to:
(i) quit peaceably that portion of the hydro access road areas; and (ii) decommission any hydro access roads on, and restore the surface of, That portion of the hydro access road areas to a condition to which Similar lands are typically restored in british columbia, unless Otherwise agreed to in writing by the nisg̱a'a nation and hydro at the Time of restoration; And to the extent necessary, this covenant will survive the termination Of this agreement; and (l) if hydro, or its employees, representatives, agents, contractors, Licensees or assignees, discover any archaeological material on the Hydro access road areas, to take all reasonable steps and precautions to Minimize disturbance of that material, and to immediately notify the Nisg̱a'a nation.
12. covenants of the nisg̱a'a nation The nisg̱a'a nation covenants with hydro:
(a) not to use or authorize the use of the hydro access road areas for Any purpose, including the construction of any improvements, that in the Reasonable opinion of hydro would be unsafe or would interfere with Hydro's use of the hydro access road areas; and (b) not to intentionally do or authorize any act or thing that injures Or endangers the hydro access roads.
13. licence Hydro will not licence the use of the hydro access road areas, in whole Or in part, without the prior written consent of the nisg̱a'a nation Provided that:
(a) hydro may grant a licence to bc tel for the use of the hydro access Road areas without the consent of the nisg̱a'a nation; (b) the nisg̱a'a nation may attach conditions to its consent to any Licence, including the provision of insurance and security, in a form And amount acceptable to the nisg̱a'a nation; and (c) no licence will act as a release of any of hydro's obligations as Set out in this agreement.
14. disputes Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this agreement will be Resolved as follows:
(a) the parties will attempt to resolve disputes by good faith Negotiations, including timely disclosure of all relevant facts, Information and documents; (b) either party may, at any time, by written notice request that the Dispute be referred to mediation, conducted by a mediator, knowledgeable About the matters in dispute; (c) if the dispute is not resolved within 30 days of the notice to Mediate under subparagraph (b) then, on the agreement of both parties, The dispute may be referred to a single arbitrator for final resolution.
If the parties do not agree to arbitration then either party may refer The matter to a court of competent jurisdiction Except that it is not incompatible with this paragraph for a party to Apply to a court of competent jurisdiction at any time for interim or Conservatory relief and for the court to grant that relief.
15. notice If notice is required or permitted under this agreement, the notice:
(a) must be in writing; (b) must be delivered to the address set out above, or other address as Specified in writing by a party; (c) may be given in one or more of the following ways:
(i) delivered personally or by courier, and it will be deemed received On the next business day; (ii) delivered by fax, and it will be deemed received on the next Business day; or (iii) mailed by pre-paid post in canada, and it will be deemed received On the eighth business day following.
16. runs with the land This agreement runs with and binds nisg̱a'a lands, to the extent Reasonably necessary to give full force and effect to this agreement.
17. waiver and consent A breach of any term, condition, covenant or other provision of this Agreement may only be waived in writing, and any waiver will not be Construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. consent to or approval Of any act, where consent or approval is required under this agreement, Will not be construed as consent to or approval of any subsequent act.
18. remedies No remedy set out in this agreement is exclusive of any other remedy Provided by law, but will be in addition to any other remedy existing at Law, in equity, or by statute.
19. successors and assigns The terms and provisions of this agreement will extend to, be binding Upon and enure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and Assigns.
20. interpretation In this agreement:
(a) all attached schedules form an integral part of this agreement; (b) unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the Plural and the masculine include the feminine gender, body politic and a Corporation;
(c) the headings are for convenience only and are not to be construed as Defining or in any way limiting the scope or intent of this agreement; (d) a reference to an enactment of british columbia or of canada will be Deemed to include a reference to any subsequent amendments or Replacements; and (e) if any provision is determined by a court or arbitrator of competent Jurisdiction to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be Considered separate and severable, and the legality or enforceability of The remaining provisions will not be affected by that determination.
In witness thereof the parties have duly executed this agreement, as of The date first referred to above.
Nisg̱a'a nation Per:____________________
Per:____________________
British columbia hydro and power authority Per:____________________
Per:____________________
Schedule a – description of hydro access road areas Appendix c-5 Certificates of possession issued by Canada on former nisg̱a'a indian reserves On nisg̱a'a lands Interest
Holder
Legal
Description
Instrument
Registration
No.
Gingolx (former kincolith i.r. # 14) Oliver melvin stewart #455 Lot 1, block 1, plan 1161 34114 79812 Oliver melvin stewart #455 Lot 2, block 1, plan 1161 34115 79813 James henry robinson #411 Lot 3, block 1, plan 1161 34767 81699 Robert lambert stewart #111 Lot 4, block 1, plan 1161 9006 24233 Sarah k. barton #26 Lot 5, block 1, plan 1161 103977 212875 Alice rosabelle benson #31 Lot 6, block 1, plan 1161 119591 249559 Reuben morgan #65 Lot 7, block 1, plan 1161 16692 16103 Howard charles lincoln #57 Lot 8, block 1, plan 1161 3024 24237 Esther melissa adams #202 Lot 2, block 2, plan 1161 30217 63586 Kenny fred moore #982 Lot 5, block 2, plan 1161 50599 128887 Mercy evangeline robinson #156 Lot 1, block 3, plan 1161 32261 72354 Katherine a. clayton #40 Lot 2, block 3, plan 1161 49682 126697 Andrew william morrison #257 Mitchell sydney morrison #70 Lot 3, block 3, plan 1161 10516 24313 James howard stevens #88 Lot 4, block 3, plan 1161 5338 24255 Charles abraham stewart #97 (estate) Lot 5, block 3, plan 1161 11510 24313 Abel louis stewart #92 Paul alfred stewart #189 (joint tenants) Lot 6, block 3, plan 1161 4734 24257 Philip rene watts #471 Lot 7, block 3, plan 1161 109176 225459 Stephen (steven) geofrey doolan #258 Lot 8, block 3, plan 1161 33791 78596 Lily eleanor mcintyre #897 Lot 9, block 3, plan 1161 46943 118177 Arthur robert robinson #417 Ambrose edward robinson #156 Marilyn sarah robinson #156 Anthony curtis robinson #156 (undivided 1/4 interest) Lot 1, block 4, plan 1161 20811 20814 20812 20813 32594 Arnold stewart #104 - Pauline fern stewart #104 (undivided 1/2 interest) Lot 2, block 4, plan 1161 6634 24405 Hubert stevens #149 Lot 4, block 4, plan 1161 9273 24406 Benjamin edward stevens #227 Hubert emerald stevens #149 James stevens #88 Robert colin stevens #169 Albert henry stevens #179 Peter george stevens #205 Ray stevens #447 Larry allen stevens #1142 (undivided 1/8th interest) Lot 5, block 4, plan 1161 115061 115062 115063 115064 115065 115066 115067 115068 238738 Henry yas. steven (stephens) #298 Lot 7, block 4, plan 1161 50430 128567 Lily eleanor mcintryre #897 Lot 8, block 4, plan 1161 49385 125972 Perry cecil george barton #153 (estate) Lot a, block 6, plan 1161 35802 85165 Albert david barton #591 Lot b, block 6, plan 1161 51054 129952 Percival desmond barton #560 (36.92% interest) Debra elaine barton #579 (12.62% interest) Zelda marie barton #199 (12.62% interest) Leo brian barton #199 (12.62% interest) Claude nathan barton #199 (12.61% interest) Clinton shannon barton #199 (12.61% interest) Lot 1, block 6, plan 1161 34971 82422 Marlon bradford watts #459 Lot 1a, block 6, plan 1161 31116 68394 Arthur mayard angus #17 Lot 2, block 6, plan 1161 30152 60260 Evelyn fanny nelson #76 (estate) Lot 3, block 6, plan 1161 30757 67194 David george stewart #781 Lot 4, block 6, plan 1161 124852 260621 Larry melvin angus #297 Margaret nellie massingale #820 Lot 5, block 6, plan 1161 119630 249679 Marjorie charlotte stewart #162 Lot 6, block 6, plan 1161 44455 112472 Charles max haines #164 Lot 8, block 6, plan 1161 30347 64266 George william barton #435 Lot 10, block 6, plan 1161 37108 89782 Henry william angus #229 Lot 11, block 6, plan 1161 22318 40949 Esther dorothy doolan #241 Lot 12, block 6, plan 1161 32586 73258 Benson young #127 (estate) Lot 14, block 6, plan 1161 3010 24329 George randolph moore #387 Christine arlene moore #387 (joint tenants) Lot 1, block 7, plan 1161 20088 29536 Eveyln fanny nelson #76 (estate) James george alexander #682 Sydney joshua alexander #464 Georgina sarah barton #24 (each with an undivided interest) Lot 3, block 7, plan 1161 42648 107551 Marietta joyce alexander #464 Lot 6, block 7, plan 1161 32675 73586 Harold peter watts #2 Lot 8, block 7, plan 1161 50474 128662 Hubert max barton #343 Frederick edward barton #22 Godwin herman barton #22 (undivided 1/3 interest) Lot 9, block 7, plan 1161 30357 64314 Macdonald melvin trimble #309 Lot 1, block 9, plan 1161 22597 43561 Mercy evangeline thomas #1102 Emily rose stevens #88 Sarah laura moore #68 Edward george nelson #75 (joint tenants) Lot 3, block 9, plan 1161 32823 74077 Ramona stanley (smythe) #87 Lot 4, block 9, plan 1161 3031 24849 Rose carol smythe #220 Lavern joyce smythe #220 Lot 1, block 10, plan 1161 49650 126658 Alfred lazarus smythe #222 Lot 2, block 10, plan 1161 11979 24333 Laura myrtle doolan #48 Lot 1, block 11, plan 1161 40830 102919 Laura myrtle doolan #48 Lot 2, block 11, plan 1161 30831 102920 Rose carol smythe #220 Lavern joyce smythe #220 Lot 4, block 11, plan 1161 49649 126657 Harold peter watts #2 Lot 5, block 11, plan 1161 4745 24337 Katherine a. clayton #40 Lot 2, block 12, plan 1161 107944 221110 Reuben morgan #65 Lot 3, block 12, plan 1161 6677 24419 Adelia grace nelson #75 Lot 1, block 13, plan 1161 107997 221380 Thelma lena stevens #169 Lot 2, block 13, plan 1161 11572 24421 Thelma lena stevens #169 Lot 5, block 13, plan 1161 105357 215528 Donald s. doolan #525 Lot 8, block 13, plan 1161 40905 103126 Steven mark watts #430 Lot 9-1, block 13, plan 60904 29215 57974 Steven mark watts #430 Lot 9-2, block 13, plan 60904 29214 57974 John edward stevens #673 Lot 1, block 14, plan 1161 123979 259175 Louis john stewart #105 Lot 2, block 14, plan 1161 8491 24442 Emily venn #118 Lot 4, block 14, plan 1161 5588 24438 Raymond alan stewart #266 Lot 5, block 14, plan 1161 21774 37517 Laura edith lincoln #58 Frederick philip harris lincoln #176 (joint tenants) Lot 6, block 14, plan 1161 53541 53542 135092 William charles stewart #256 Lot 8, block 14, plan 1161 22331 41127 Isaac benjamin watts #393 Lot 10, block 14, plan 1161 30745 67115 Harold philip barton #150 Lot 1, block 15, plan 1161 6110 24428 Jessie josephine gurney #49 Lot 4, block 15, plan 1161 53445 134933 Eugene david stewart #330 Lot 1, block 16, plan 1161 19709 27906 Gingolx (formerly kincolith i.r. #14a) Mercy evangeline thomas #1102 Lot 1. plan 1918 rsbc 46716 117570 Mercy evangeline thomas #1102 Lot 2, plan rsbc 2501r 108688 223247 Mercy evangeline thomas #1102 Lot 4, plan rsbc 2501r 108689 223247 Formerly gitlakdamix i.r. #1 Elsie h. clayton #23 (estate) Lot 1, block 1, plan 1163 4400 20978 Marjorie bright #14 (1/3 interest) Ben r. bright #575 (2/18 th interest) Melvin m. bright #608 (2/18 th interest) Wanda v. bright #421 (2/18 th interest) Bessie blackwater #551 (2/18 th interest) Elinor n. bright #517 (2/18 th interest) Charlotte j. scott #1242 (2/18 th interest) Lot 3, block 1, plan 1163 124177 124178 124179 124180 124181 124182 124183 20977 Martha munroe #62 (estate) Lot 4, block 5, plan 1163 4860 20976 Andrew roger mercer #290 Parcel 1, lot 5, block 5, Plan 1163
17535 20562 Rachel haizimsque #42 Lot 11, block 8, plan 1163 4862 20975 Oscar harold mercer #102 Lot 2, block 9, plan 1163 4863 20974 Ellen davis #26 (estate) Lot 1, block 10, plan 1163 4871 20949 Norma grace varley #1023 Judith pamela gonu #195 Karen sopia johnson #303 Sharon alexandria johnson #309 Lilly eileen johnson #1013 Marjery esther eli #284 Charlene louise johnson #433 Teresa louanne johnson #540 Diane pauline robinson #538 Albert curtis robinson #640 Brian craig robinson #670 Melanie stella robinson #676 Lot 5, block 10, plan 1163 107811 107812 107813 107814 107815 107816 107817 107818 107819 107820 107821 107822 220887 New aiyansh (formerly new aiyansh i.r. no. 1) Edmond isaac wright #246 Lot 19-6, plan 68282 45695 115776 Gitwinksihlkw (formerly canyon city i.r. no. 7) Frazer harry nice (nyce) #48 Lot 1, plan 62995 29153 57633 Minnie azak #30 Lot 3, plan 62995 38984 98478 Maurice alfred squires #159 Lot 7, plan 62995 124878 260681 W.c. azak #75 (transfer to gitwinksihlkw band being processed) Lot 9, plan 62995 32524 73065 Lawrence peter adams #36 Lot 11, plan 62995 29161 57633 Martha doris burton #184 (1/11 th interest) Agnes jean squires #220 (1/11 th interest) Phyllis marjorie cheecham #227 (1/11 th interest) Jerry edward azak #41 (1/11 th interest) Perry lloyd azak #46 (2/11 th interest) Herbert wayne azak #71 (1/11 th interest) Arnold ross azak #79 (2/11 th interest) Josephine karen azak #87 (2/11 th interest) Lot 12, plan 62995 107669 107670 107671 107672 107673 107674 107675 107676 220274 Grace azak #5 Lot 18, plan 62995 32990 74503 Virginia stella azak #35 Jacob dennis gary #56 (estate) Lot 20, plan 62995 30348 64268 Chester earle nyce #66 Lot 22, plan 62995 29850 61642 Alice azak #6 Lot 24, plan 62995 29170 57633 Alvin jonathan azak #52 Lot 27, plan 62995 29172 57633 (note: bracketed spellings are correct and have been agreed upon By the parties.) Appendix c-6 Persons with an interest authorized by band council resolution on Former nisg̱a'a indian reserves On nisg̱a'a lands Homeowner member name Member band no.
Home location Gitwinksihlkw village Steven c. azak sr.
6790004501 Lot 5, plan 62995 Joshua w. azak 6790003301 Lot 6, plan 62995 Irene a. griffin 6790015501 Lot 8, plan 62995 Peter r. squires sr.
6790014601 Lot 15, plan 62995 Bruce j. haldane sr.
6790004901 Lot 17, plan 62995 Henry azak 6790003901 Lot 19, plan 62995 Bert c. azak 6790013201 Lot 21, plan 62995 Chester e. nyce 6790006601 Lot 22, plan 62995 Alice azak 6790000602 Lot 24, plan 62995 Arnold azak 6790007901 Lot 25, plan 62995 Fred a. azak 6790006101 Lot 26, plan 62995 Alvin j. azak 6790005201 Lot 27, plan 62995 Pheobe azak 6790002902 Lot 1-new, plan Rodney moore 6790008501 Lot 2 new, plan Lavinia azak 6790012202 Lot 3 new, plan Mark r. azak 6790006401 Lot 4 new, plan Jerry azak 6790004101 Lot 5 new, plan Arthur nyce 6790007301 Lot 6 new, plan Collier h. azak 6790004701 Lot 7 new, plan P. norman squires jr.
6790024401 Lot 12 new, plan Silas azak 6790009001 Lot 13 new, plan Dennis nyce 6790009601 Lot 18 new, plan R. allan azak 6790011801 Lot 20 new, plan Alice nyce 6790016201 Lot 21 new, plan William j. azak 6790011001 Lot 22 new, plan Leonard f. squires 6790016001 Lot 23 new, plan T. ron nyce 6790005701 Lot 24 new, plan J. clifford azak sr.
6790008901 Lot 25 new, plan Perry azak 6790004601 Lot 26 new, plan Bruce l. azak 6790011501 Lot 27 new, plan Arthur r. azak 6790004201 Lot 28 new, plan George morgan 6790003201 Lot 29 new, plan Steven bolton sr.
6790008101 Lot 30 new, plan Dorothy doolan 6790011401 Lot 31 new, plan Harry nyce jr.
6790014401 Lot 34 new, plan Village of kincolith Albert a. nelson 6710046101 Lot 9 block 1, plan 1161 G.v.g. rental Lot 1 block 2, plan 1161 Esther adams 6710020202 Lot 2 block 2, plan 1161 Band owned Lot 3 block 2, plan 1161 Band owned Lot 4 block 2, plan 1161 William watts sr.
6710026801 Lot 6 block 2, plan 1161 Larry angus 6710029701 Lot 3 block 4, plan 1161 Maintenance department Lot 6 block 4, plan 1161 S.e.p. office Lot 6 a block 4, plan 1161 Henry stephens 6710029801 Lot 7 block 4, plan 1161 Lily mcintyre/doolan 6710089701 Lot 8 block 4, plan 1161 Gvfb fire hall Lot 9 block 4, plan 1161 Mission house Lot 1 block 5, plan 1161 Christ church Lot 1 block 5, plan 1161 G.v.g./tv com. cabin Lot 0 block 6, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 7 block 6, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 9 block 6, plan 1161 William stanley 6710153401 Lot 13 block 6, plan 1161 Reuben morgan 6710006501 Lot 2 block 7, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 4 block 7, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 4 block 7, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 5 block 7, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 5 block 7, plan 1161 Arnold angus 6710066101 Lot 7 block 7, plan 1161 New hall complex Lot 1 block 8, plan 1161 New hall complex Lot 2 block 8, plan 1161 G.v.g.
Lot 3 block 8, plan 1161 Rita barton/doolan 6710069001 Lot 2 block 9, plan 1161 Ramona smythe hotel Lot 4 block 9, plan 1161 Teddy venn sr.
6710041501 Lot 3 block 10, plan 1161 Gene alexander 6710049301 Lot 3 block 11, plan 1161 Gerald doolan 6710038501 Lot 6 block 11, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 7 block 11, plan 1161 Nvhb health centre Lot 1 block 12, plan 1161 Nurse's residence Lot 1 block 12, plan 1161 G.v.g./rental Lot 3 block 13, plan 1161 Education department Lot 3 block 13, plan 1161 Gingolx village government Lot 4 block 13, plan 1161 Andrew morrison 6710025701 Lot 6 block 13, plan 1161 Sd 92/teacherage Lot 7 block 13, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 10 block 13, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 11 block 13, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 12 block 13, plan 1161 School district #92 Lot 13 block 13, plan 1161 Esther aksidan 6710000302 Lot 14 block 13, plan 1161 Alvin nelson 6710036502 Lot 15 block 13, plan 1161 Stuart doolan 6710031001 Lot 3 block 14, plan 1161 Priscilla s/james stevens 6710089001/ 6710008802 Lot 7 block 14, plan 1161 Steven doolan sr.
6710025801 Lot 9 block 14, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 2 block 15, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 3 block 15, plan 1161 Marietta robinson 6710024402 Lot 5 block 15, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 2 block 16, plan 1161 Roger watts 6710021301 Lot 1 block 17, plan 1161 Alvin smart 6710062201 Lot 2 block 17, plan 1161 G.v.g./rental Lot 3 block 17, plan 1161 Chester gurney 6710027601 Lot 4 block 17, plan 1161 New church army Lot 5 block 17, plan 1161 New church army Lot 6 block 17, plan 1161 Thomas sheehan/cmhc Lot 7 block 17, plan 1161 R.c.m.p. office Lot 8 block 17, plan 1161 Harry moore sr./cmhc 6710027001 Lot 9 block 17, plan 1161 Morrice pond 6710027001 Lot 10 block 17, plan 1161 Mary stanley 6710069601 Lot 11 block 17, plan 1161 Harold barton sr.
6710015001 Lot 12 block 17, plan 1161 Justina barton/cmhc 6710075001 Lot 13 block 17, plan 1161 James randy stevens 6710052201 Lot 14 block 17, plan 1161 Kenny moore 6710098201 Lot 15 block 17, plan 1161 Robin stewart 6710049701 Lot 16 block 17, plan 1161 Vernon stewart sr.
6710045801 Lot 17 block 17, plan 1161 Peggy venn/cmhc 6710042501 Lot 18 block 17, plan 1161 Raymond stewart sr.
6710026601 Lot 19 block 17, plan 1161 R. bennett clayton 6710004101 Lot 20 block 17, plan 1161 David stewart sr.
6710078101 Lot 21 block 17, plan 1161 Linda j. venn 6710051902 Lot 22 block 17, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 23 block 17, plan 1161 Albert barton 6710024001 Lot 24 block 17, plan 1161 B.c. tel trailer Lot 25 block 17, plan 1161 Paul a. stewart sr.
6710018901 Lot 26 block 17, plan 1161 George nelson sr.
6710022901 Lot 27 block 17, plan 1161 Emily louise dangel 6710078801 Lot 28 block 17, plan 1161 Nora doolan/cmhc 6710078601 Lot 29 block 17, plan 1161 Not safe* Lot 30 block 17, plan 1161 Arthur j. nelson 6710023001 Lot 31 block 17, plan 1161 Kazaan smythe sr.
6710057401 Lot 32 block 17, plan 1161 Reynold venn 6710064601 Lot 33 block 17, plan 1161 G.v.g./rental Lot 34 block 17, plan 1161 Yvonne barton 6710056101 Lot 35 block 17, plan 1161 Troy stewart 6710101301 Lot 36 block 17, plan 1161 Willard lincoln jr.
6710091501 Lot 37 block 17, plan 1161 G.v.g./band owned Lot 38 block 17, plan 1161 Lot 39 block 17, plan 1161 G.v.g./rental Lot 40 block 17, plan 1161 Macdonald c. stanley 6710099001 Lot 41 block 17, plan 1161 William smythe 6710072701 Lot 42 block 17, plan 1161 Macdonald trimble 6710030901 Lot 43 block 17, plan 1161 Steven doolan jr.
6710082501 Lot 44 block 17, plan 1161 Peter stevens jr.
6710057801 Lot 45 block 17, plan 1161 Barry smythe 6710061101 Lot 46 block 17, plan 1161 Neil okabe 6810017501 Band owned trailer unit Richard lincoln/ D. maitland 6710035901 Band owned trailer unit Raymond stewart jr.
6710090501 Band owned trailer unit Myra barton/terrance 6710119201 Band owned trailer unit Neal barton/shanna nelson 6710111301 Band owned trailer unit Zelda komurcu 6710121001 Band owned trailer unit Floyd/michell stevens 6710109301 Band owned trailer unit Priscilla gurney/ Shawn barton 6710102601 Band owned trailer unit Jason stewart/ Charlene derrict 6710128401 Band owned trailer unit Claude barton sr.
6710073801 Band owned trailer unit Darrel/collette angus 6710098701 Lot 1 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 2 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 3 block 18, plan 1161 Peter stevens sr.
6710020501 Lot 4 block 18, plan 1161 Randy/julia stevens 6710052201 Lot 5 block 18, plan 1161 Richard/wilma oshea 6710029201 Lot 6 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 7 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 8 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 9 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 10 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 11 block 18, plan 1161 Russell/margo calder 6710135401 Lot 12 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 13 block 18, plan 1161 Lisa/perry stevens 6710071301 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit1) April nelson 6710109101 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit 2) Sally stephens/perry terrel 6710141301 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit 3) Calvin/cindy barton 6710047001 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit 4) Marylee stevens 6710103301 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit 5) Raymond moore 6710047201 Lots 14/15 block 18(unit 6) Hope grace allen 6710084901 Lot 16 block 18, plan 1161 Susan trimble 6710030902 Lot 17 block 18, plan 1161 Neal/shanna barton 6710111301 Lot 18 block 18, plan 1161 Alvin/gwen nelson 6710036501 Lot 19 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 20 block 18, plan 1161 Evan henry/alaura doolan 6710049001 Lot 21 block 18, plan 1161 Neil/emily smythe 6710065701 Lot 22 block 18, plan 1161 Fraser/melanie doolan 6710102901 Lot 23 block 18, plan 1161 Lot 24 block 18, plan 1161 Claude/tanya barton 6710073801 Lot 25 block 18, plan 1161 Kirby/colette stephens 6710102801 Lot 26 block 18, plan 1161 Rudolph/alberta watts 6710050501 Lot 27 block 18, plan 1161 Village of gitlakdamix Roderick robinson Marjorie robinson 6770011701 6770011702 321, clsr plan 73712 Reginald percival Mary percival 6770042601 6770042602 320, clsr plan 73712 Brian tait Faith tait 6770039901 6770047301 319, clsr plan 73712 Laura welde 6770077601 318, clsr plan 73712 Eric clayton Eva clayton 6770065301 6770044101 317, clsr plan 73712 Marjorie bright 677001402 316, clsr plan 73712 Frank tait Gail tait 6770055301 6770071201 315, clsr plan 73712 Lorene plante 6770074901 314, clsr plan 73712 Veronica eli 6770056101 313, clsr plan 73712 Frank gosnell Kate gosnell 6770068501 6770072301 312, clsr plan 73712 Bertram gonu Leona gonu 6770045401 6770061801 279, clsr plan 70837 Sybil nisyok 6770053602 278, clsr plan 70837 Hubert doolan Evangeline doolan 6770035401 6770035402 277, clsr plan 70837 Theodore gosnell Lisa gosnell 6770058601 6770071301 276, clsr plan 70837 Bruce adams Esther adams 6770042301 6770042302 275, clsr plan 70837 Donald adams Patricia adams 6770014001 6770014002 274, clsr plan 70837 Georgina harris 6770080801 273, clsr plan 70837 Floyd davis Anita davis 6770035901 6770035902 272, clsr plan 70837 Vernon eli Sheila eli 6770036301 6770036302 271, clsr plan 70837 James adams 6770000701 270, clsr plan 70837 Russell morven Monica morven 6770045501 6770059401 339, clsr plan 75000 William e. tait 6770010301 338, clsr plan 75000 Violet guno 6770004002 337, clsr plan 75000 Joseph gosnell Adele gosnell 6770014801 6770014802 336, clsr plan 75000 Calvin morven Charlene morven 6770037601 6770037602 335, clsr plan 75000 Allen clayton Myrtle clayton 6770020501 6770020502 334, clsr plan 75000 Erma gosnell 6770110101 333, clsr plan 75000 Bertie t. adams Elizabeth adams 6770015901 6770015902 332, clsr plan 75000 Ida peal 6770007502 330, clsr plan 75000 Dorothy elliot 6770062901 329, clsr plan 75000 Carl johnson Greta johnson 6770034401 6770057801 328, clsr plan 75000 Alver tait Lillian tait 6770071801 6770021902 327, clsr plan 75000 George jr. mcmillan Yvette mcmillan 6770052601 6770099701 326, clsr plan 75000 Thomas clayton Donna clayton 6770022801 6770022802 325, clsr plan 75000 Earl munroe Margo munroe 6770040201 6770040202 324, clsr plan 75000 Melvin robinson Rosie robinson 6770019601 6770019602 280, clsr plan 70837 Richard azak Angela azak [robinson] 6770055401 6770076501 281, clsr plan 70837 Josephine casey 6770087101 282, clsr plan 70837 Louise martian 6770073001 283, clsr plan 70837 Patrick mcmillan Phyllis mcmillan 6770006901 6770006902 284, clsr plan 70837 Edgar guno Doreen guno 6770044601 6770044602 291, clsr 70837 Reuben gonu Charlotte gonu 6770054101 6770063201 264, clsr plan 70011 William clayton Lynne clayton 6770047901 6770047902 265, clsr plan 70011 Christopher clayton Sarah clayton 6770002001 6770002002 266, clsr plan 70011 Shirley morven 6770106901 267, clsr plan 70011 George sr. mcmillan Verna mcmillan 6770013301 259, clsr plan 70011 Leonard moore Ferdillia moore 6770049201 6770029202 260, clsr plan 70011 Annie morven 6770005602 261, clsr plan 70011 Alvin clayton 6770053101 262, clsr plan 70011 Edward mcmillan Teresa mcmillan 6770029201 6770029202 255, clsr plan 70011 Wayne nisyok Gloria nisyok 6770038401 6770038402 254, clsr plan 70011 Cuthbert munroe Edith munroe 6770026401 6770026402 253, clsr plan 70011 Keith tait Marilyn tait 6770032501 6770032502 237, clsr plan 69298 Currie gosnell Stacey gosnell 6770044701 6770075401 236, clsr plan 69298 Oscar mercer 6770010201 229, clsr plan 67309 Cecil mercer 6770021901 235, clsr plan 69298 Gerald nisyok Teresa louanne johnson 6770041001 6770054001 234, clsr plan 69298 Claude morven Cora morven 6770024301 6770024302 233, clsr plan 69298 Dan gonu jr.
6770093001 292, clsr plan 70837 Ruby parenteau 6770084601 293, clsr plan 70837 Frank adams 6770033401 294, clsr plan 70837 Elaine barton 6770056502 230, clsr plan 67309 Rebecca adelaide tait 6770064501 221 Donald haizimsque Jean haizimsque 6770023501 6770023502 298, clsr plan 70837 Gary davis Colleen davis 6770029101 6770029102 299, clsr plan 70837 Isaac guno Trudy guno 6770040601 6770040602 300, clsr plan 70837 Ben sr. gonu Barb gonu 6770023601 6770023602 301, clsr plan 70837 Ben gosnell 6770079101 Felix davis Elizabeth davis 6770002401 6770002402 Keith woods 6770060901 32, clsr plan 55248 Lily johnson 6770101301 33, clsr plan 55248 Cecil morven Josephine morven 6770006101 6770006102 34, clsr plan 55248 Alfred jr. johnson Donna johnson 6770061101 6770059801 35, clsr plan 55248 Floyd percival Mildred percival 6770038501 6770038502 36, clsr plan 55248 Reynold davis 6770002801 37, clsr plan 55248 Valerie davis 6770084201 38, clsr plan 55248 Clifford jr. percival Christina percival 6770091901 6770082401 39, clsr plan 55248 Sharlene lacroix 6770097501 171, clsr plan 63206 Emily mercer 6770005002 1 - 1, clsr plan 70837 Dan gonu sr.
6770019501 1 -2, clsr plan 70837 Peter clayton Roberta clayton 6770011901 6770011902 311, clsr plan 70837 Howard grandison Mary grandison 6770048101 6770048102 3, clsr plan 55248 Lonny stewart Maryann adams 6770064701 6770089601 4, clsr plan 55248 Sarah haizimsque 6770004502 5, clsr plan 55248 Pauline johnson 6770028001 6, clsr plan 55248 Sidney eli Rena eli 6770003201 6770003202 11, clsr plan 55248 Ron & lorna davis 6770026701 & 6770026702 12, clsr plan 55248 Chester haizimsque Elizabeth haizimsque 6770020201 6770020202 13, clsr plan 55248 Edith guno 6770003702 10, clsr plan 55248 Emily guno 6770004102 9, clsr plan 55248 Joseph grandiosn Pauline grandison 6770003401 6770003402 8, clsr plan 55248 Freda morven 6770005802 7, clsr plan 55248 Roy adams Selina adams 6770011001 6770011002 18, clsr plan 55248 Phillip azak Cecilia azak 6770034601 6770034602 17, clsr plan 55248 Gustave raymond guno 6770023301 15, clsr plan 55248 Hubert mcmillan 6770006801 23, clsr plan 55248 Samuel nisyok Florence nisyok 6770021001 6770021002 20, clsr plan 55248 Samuel mcmillan Sarah mcmillan 6770012101 6770012102 19 -7, clsr plan 68282 Mary mcmillan 6770007002 27, clsr plan 55248 B. daniel nisyok 6770010501 26, clsr plan 55248 Oliver woods 6770009401 25, clsr plan 55248 Gordon mckay 6770022201 204, clsr plan 63206 Leanne wright 6770088601 203, clsr plan 63206 Wilfred adams Amelia adams 6770013701 6770013702 170, clsr plan 63206 Sidney clayton 6770055201 169, clsr plan 63206 Irvine tait Vivian tait 6770038701 6770038702 310, clsr plan 70837 Ivan gonu Wanda gonu 6770027501 6770027502 306, clsr plan 70837 Russell gonu June gonu 6770030601 6770030602 225, clsr plan 67309 Ronald peal 6770025301 226, clsr plan 67309 Keith clayton Jean clayton 6770040101 6770040102 228, clsr plan 67309 James douglas clayton Cecelia edna clayton 6770015201 6770015202 172, clsr plan 63206 Stephen derrick Mavis derrick 6770024501 6770024502 173, clsr plan 63206 Jacob davis Phoebe davis 6770002702 6770002702 174, clsr plan 63206 Harold wright 6770044301 176, clsr plan 63206 Elizabeth wright 6770044302 Perry clayton Kathleen clayton 6770028801 6770028802 177, clsr plan 63206 Pauline robinson 6770007802 178, clsr plan 63206 James wright 6770086301 179, clsr plan 63206 Ivy woods 6770009002 180, clsr plan 63206 Moses johnson Fran johnson 6770040701 6770040702 243, clsr plan 69298 Steven eli Denise eli 6770051201 6770051202 242, clsr plan 69298 Gerald clayton Roberta clayton 6770064301 6770064302 241, clsr plan 69298 Matthew steven clayton 6770035301 240, clsr plan 69298 Arthur johnson Hope johnson 6770025001 6770025002 239, clsr plan 69298 Robert blackwater Bessie blackwater 6770055101 6770055102 238, clsr plan 69298 Gary tait Marlene tait 6770029601 6770029602 251, clsr plan 69298 Daphne robinson 6770060101 250, clsr plan 69298 Victor robinson Hilda robinson 6770038601 6770038602 249, clsr plan 69298 Trevor stewart Yvonne stewart 6770061001 6770061002 248, clsr plan 69298 Annette peal (george peal jr.) 6770106301 245, clsr plan 69298 Edna tait 6770044901 244, clsr plan 69298 Herbert morven Nita morven 6770021201 6770021202 142, clsr plan 63206 Samuel munroe Kathy munroe 6770020901 6770020902 141, clsr plan 63206 Christine gosnell 6770013502 140, clsr plan 63206 Henry wright 6770020801 139, clsr plan 63206 Max wright Elizabeth wright 6770015801 6770015802 138, clsr plan 63206 Myrna wright 6770108901 137, clsr plan 63206 Ethel munroe 6770006401 130, clsr plan 63206 George gosnell 6770076901 128, clsr plan 63206 Edmond wright Millicent wright 6770024601 6770024602 129, clsr plan 63206 Jackie adams 6770073501 136, clsr plan 63206 Kelly mcmillan Melinda mcmillan 6770018201 6770018202 131, clsr plan 63206 Margaret woods 6770061701 132, clsr plan 63206 Percy tait Doris tait 6770008701 6770008702 133, clsr plan 63206 Clifford sr. percival Lilac percival 6770022401 6770022402 134, clsr plan 63206 Fred grandison Sharlene grandison 6770051301 6770051302 135, clsr plan 63206 Phillip azak Cecilia azak 6770034601 6770034602 342, (item 1996 10 148) Glen nisyok Andrea nisyok 6770051901 6770051902 343, (item 1996 10 148) Band house 344, (item 1996 10 148) Tania percival 6770099901 345, (item 1996 10 148) Ralph robinson 677 346, (item 1996 10 148) Kimberly munroe [thompson] 6770087301 347, (item 1996 10 148) Debra stewart (clayton) 6770099801 348, (item 1996 10 148) Gerald robinson Dena robinson 6770041201 6770041202 350, (item 1996 10 148) Terrance morven Sharlene morven 6770032001 6770032002 349, (item 1996 10 148) Lauren peter adams Sheila mckay 6770072001 6770071901 351, (item 1996 10 148) Fred clayton Georgia clayton 6770063101 6770063102 352, (item 1996 10 148) Samuel mcmillan Sarah mcmillan 6770012101 6770012102 353, (item 1996 10 148) Robert eli Claudine eli 6770088301 6770107001 354, (item 1996 10 148) Bernice grandison 6770064201 355, (item 1996 10 148) Godfrey adams Mildred adams 6770000501 6770000502 356, (item 1996 10 148) Hugh woods Geraldine woods 6770039501 6770039502 357, (item 1996 10 148) James nicholas tait Linda morven 6770051401 6770058001 359, (item 1996 10 148) Bert mercer 6770052401 363, (no clsr plan) Simon guno Patricia guno 6770069701 6770106601 364, (no clsr plan) Lyle e. adams 6770081601 365, (no clsr plan) Daniel gonu Lisa gonu 6770093001 6770083201 366, (no clsr plan) Patrick clayton Sharlene lacroix 6770063701 6770097501 367, (no clsr plan) Joyce bright 677 368, (no clsr plan) Walter nisyok Renee nisyok 6770082501 6770109001 375, (no clsr plan) Marianne mitchell 6770080001 376, (no clsr plan) Frank clayton 6770026501 377, (no clsr plan) Brad percival Angela percival 6770060301 677 378, (no clsr plan) Charlene ousey 677 379, (no clsr plan) Vincent johnson Cheryl johnson 6770037201 6770037202 380, (no clsr plan) Frances morven 6770017001 382, (no clsr plan) Charles morven 6770026301 383, (no clsr plan) Alfred sr. johnson Dorothy johnson 6770014701 6770014702 386, (no clsr plan) Winnie morven 6770041401 391, (no clsr plan) Dan gonu 6770019501 392, (no clsr plan) Loretta pelletier 6770081001 Village of la X
Galts'ap Kenny l. robinson 6780042701 Lot 1 block 1 John d. robinson 6780015701 Lot 2 block 1 Roy l. mckay 6780028501 Lot 3 block 1 Stephen a. moore 6780032301 Lot 4 block 1 Mary a moore 6780018102 Lot 5 block 1 Leon p. stephens 6780090201 Lot 6 block 1 Matt wright 6780118701 Lot 7 block 1 Gus sampare 6780023101 Lot 8 block 1 Lorne campbell 6780023301 Lot 9 block 1 Lvg triplex Lot 1 block 2 Fred stephens 6780023001 Lot 2 block 2 Charlie w. stephens 6780033301 Lot 3 block 2 Alvin a. mckay 6780011901 Lot 4 block 2 Rhonda v. leeson 6780027502 Lot 5 block 2 Charles i. leeson 6780048901 Lot 6 block 2 Philip j. stephens 6780033401 Lot 7 block 2 Melvin c. stevens 6780036001 Lot 8 block 2 Bruce k. stephens 6780033201 Lot 9 block 2 Horace e. stevens 6780085601 Lot 10 block 2 Vacant
Lot 11 block 2 Sylvia j. stephens 6780108201 Lot 1 block 4 Vacant
Lot 2 block 4 Lorne t. mckay 6780032501 Lot 3 block 4 Irene p. mckay 6780014502 Lot 4 block 4 Alexander e. stephens 6780009001 Lot 5 block 4 Wallace clark 6780036801 Lot 6 block 4 Flora j. bright 6780031101 Lot 7 block 4 Milton e. clark 6780002201 Lot 8 block 4 Bradley w. moore 6780045001 Lot 9 block 4 Lorne a. ryan 6780089801 Lot 10 block 4 Mayne k. stephens 6780047201 Lot 11 block 4 Clarence b. stephens 6780015101 Lot 12 block 4 Henry m. moore 6780024601 Lot 13 block 4 Barry f. stevens 6780033601 Lot 14 block 4 John w. tait 6780045901 Lot 15 block 4 Lawrence r. stephens 6780044101 Lot 16 block 4 Earl d. stephens 6780040901 Lot 17 block 4 Rosalee j. vickers 6780049302 Lot 18 block 4 Fred v. moore 6780030401 Lot 1 block 5 Lvg duplex Lot 2 block 5 Elsie g. martin 6780067701 Lot 3 block 5 Irene robertson 6780091501 Lot 4 block 5 Moses g. mckay 6780021301 Lot 5 block 5 Jacob v. mckay 6780016801 Lot 6 block 5 Joseph tait 6780015001 Lot 7 block 5 Dianna a. rai 6780094701 Lot 8 block 5 Ivan j. moore 6780014301 Lot 9 block 5 Raymond i. calder 6780009801 Lot 1 block 6 Gary b. stephens 6780023901 Lot 2 block 6 Lvg rental Lot 3 block 6 Donald v. leeson 6780034501 Lot 4 block 6 Alan m. mckay 6780032401 Lot 5 block 6 Lvg rental Lot 6 block 6 Vacant
Lot 7 block 6 Easement
Lot 8 block 6 Delmer f. clark 6780054101 Lot 9 block 6 Lvg duplex Lot 10 block 6 Lvg rental unit Lot 11 block 6 Percy m. stephens 6780030901 Lot 12 block 6 Vacant
Lot 13 block 6 Terry stevens 6780009901 Lot 14 block 6 La
X
Galts'ap elementary school Lot 1 block 7 Vacant
Lot 2 block 7 Arnold j. stewart 6780055801 Lot 3 block 7 Rodney i. davis 6780051701 Lot 4 block 7 Lyle m. stevens 6780040601 Lot 5 block 7 Morris r. watts 6780033901 Lot 6 block 7 Vacant
Lot 7 block 7 Bc tel trailer Lot 8 block 7 Rennie m. tait 6780042501 Lot 9 block 7 Marcus n. bright 6780022901 Lot 10 block 7 Perry h. robinson 6780088401 Lot 11 block 7 Larry h. martin 6780024901 Lot 12 block 7 Erwin l. alexander 6780087501 Lot 13 block 7 Louis b. mckay 6780038901 Lot 14 block 7 Colin a. moore 6780042401 Lot 15 block 7 Leonard f.j. robinson 6780014201 Lot 16 block 7 Nurse's trailer Lot 17 block 7 Thomas t. tait 6780056301 Lot 18 block 7 Vacant
Lot 19 block 7 Norman a. stephens 6780035901 Lot 20 block 7 Reginald e. sampare 6780094501 Lot 21 block 7 Alan f. moore 6780020301 Lot 22 block 7 Christine mckay 6780006502 Lot 23 block 7 Clarence c. robinson 6780020201 Lot 24 block 7 Frederick w. tait 6780040301 Lot 1 block 8 Alfred a. robinson 6780007101 Lot 2 block 8 Duane s. mckay 6780066701 Lot 3 block 8 Arthur g. moore 6780011601 Lot 4/12 block 8 Herbert calder 6780001801 Lot 5/11 block 8 James mcneil 6780035101 Lot 6/10 block 8 Wilfred tait 6780011701 Lot 7 block 8 Alex a. angus 6780015601 Lot 8 block 8 Charlie j. swanson 6780012801 Lot 9 block 8 St. andrew's church Lot 1 block 9 Charles j. moore 6780025501 Lot 2 block 9 Katherine stephens 6780008802 Lot 3 block 9 Marina j. mckay 6780025802 Lot 4 block 9 Glen c. robinson 6780025001 Lot 5 block 9 Bertram mckay 6780005301 Lot 6 block 9 Horace m. stephens 6780038201 Lot 7 block 9 William a. moore 6789925201 Lot 8 block 9 Charles e. davis 6780036301 Lot 9 block 9 Irma innes 6780048202 Lot 10 block 9 Kenneth r. davis 6780039701 Lot 11 block 9 Vacant
Lot 12 block 9 Charlie s. watts 6780033801 Lot 13 block 9 Village of la X
Galts'ap – north road cresent subdivision Victoria b. stevens 6780060401 Lot 1
Brenda a. morrison 6780079301 Lot 2
Matthew h. moore 6780035401 Lot 3
Reynard h. moore 6780022601 Lot 4
Hector gurney 6780015801 Lot 5
Kevin h. mckay 6780039401 Lot 6
Noreen k. cross 6780040201 Lot 7
Abraham davis 6780002501 Lot 8
Albert l. stephens 6780008401 Lot 9
Nurse's residence Lot 10
Roderick maxwell 6780011001 Lot 11
Matthew c. bright 6780022601 Lot 12
Craig g. mckay 6780051601 Lot 13
Mario o. stevens 6780054401 Lot 14
Marvin c. stephens 6780039601 Lot 15
Village of la X
Galts'ap – cottonwood court subdivision Marie a. watts 6780094201 Lot 16
Willard a. martin 6780017301 Lot 17
Karon l. mckay 6780031201 Lot 18
Peter leeson 6780041901 Lot 19
Harry m. stephens 6780050101 Lot 20
Currie w. gurney 6780037901 Lot 21
James w.r. lincoln 6780091301 Lot 22
Oscar h. clayton 6780088601 Lot 23
Village of la X
Galts'ap – highway drive subdivision Lois g.d. mckay 6780041501 Lot 24
Cheryl j. sampare 6780062701 Lot 25
Village of la X
Galts'ap – spruce drive subdivision Lvg daycare Lot 26
Tony c. stevens 6780054701 Lot 27
Ira a. mckay 6780051101 Lot 28
Barbara l. davis 6780034102 Lot 29
Brenda e. stevens 6780037102 Lot 30
Viola c. robinson 6780031301 Lot 31
Martin j. robinson 6780066901 Lot 32
Albert m. stephens 6780066901 Lot 33
Sherry e. small 6780046201 Lot 34
Vernon gurney 6780053101 Lot 35
Vincent robinson 6780065501 Lot 36
Andrew s. mckay 6780057901 Lot 37
Darren c. mcneil 6780073101 Lot 38
Delores m. mckay 6780099201 Lot 39
Charlotte p. haizimsque 6780094401 Lot 40
Village of la X
Galts'ap – willow place subdivision Magnus c. stevens 6780027301 Lot 41
Hester r. mckay 6780016102 Lot 42
Barbara m. edgar 6780093701 Lot 43
Annette b. clayton 6780096601 Lot 44
Alfred s. stewart 6780059001 Lot 45
Village of la X
Galts'ap – spruce drive subdivision Christine e. collison 6780045601 Lot 46
Valerie j. evans 6780051401 Lot 47
Hubert w. haldane 6780023201 Lot 48
Village of la X
Galts'ap – multi-family rental units Perry t. robinson 6780118501 402 a Reynold r. maxwell 6780039301 402 b Keith j. gurney 6780098901 402 c Dawna l. watts 6780092701 403 a Rodney i. davis 6780051701 403 b Louisa a. gray 6780025701 403 c Mary a. moore 6780018102 404 a Ella p. stevens 6780088201 404 b Robert s. tait 6780047901 405 a Mark a. davis 6780031901 405 b Kirk a. ritchie 6780102801 405 c Timothy derrick 6780003201 406 a Charlotte angus 6780114101 406 b Cora e. aksidan 6780000102 406 c Tenants of lvg rental and multi-family units are subject to Change as permanent housing is obtained.
Appendix c-7 Angling guide licences, trapline licences And guide outfitter licence wholly or Partially on nisg̱a'a lands Waters
Licence no.
Dragon lake 203793 203794 202438 Ginlulak creek 203796 203815 Iknouk river 203811 Ishkheenickh river 206180 203811 203791 203793 203751 203800 202468 203772 203796 203753 202494 202438 Kincolith river 206180 203811 203791 Nass river 203758 206180 202471 203791 203783 203803 202426 202427 203800 203752 203756 202428 202446 203805 202494 Tchitin river 203815 Tseax river 202471 203791 203793 203783 203751 202426 202427 203752 203756 203796 202428 202461 203807 202438 203815 Zolzap creek 203815 Traplines
614t 007 614t 062 614t 071 615t 024 614t 008 614t 063 614t 072 615t 025 614t 011 614t 064 614t 073 615t 027 614t012 614t 065 614t 074 615t 044 614t 013 614t 066 614t 075 616t 001 614t 014 614t 067 614t 076 616t 002 614t 015 614t 068 614t 077 616t 003 614t 060 614t 069 614t 104 616t004 614t 061 614t 070 615t 023 616t 005 616t 015 Guide outfitter licence 610g 001 Appendix d Nisg̱a'a fee simple lands Outside nisg̱a'a lands Appendix d-1 Map of category a and b lands Appendix d-2 Category a lands Appendix d-3 Sketches of category a lands Appendix d-4 List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, Encumbrances, licences, and permits located on category a lands Appendix d-5 Sketches showing the location of active mineral claims on Category a lands Appendix d-6 Category b lands Appendix d-7 Sketches of category b lands Appendix d-8 List of estates, interests, charges, mineral claims, Encumbrances, licences and permits located on category b lands Appendix d-1 Map of category a and b lands Link to large map Appendix d-2 Category a lands:
Listing of former nisg̱a'a indian reserves outside of nisg̱a'a lands, and Extensions, the extensions of which after survey will have an aggregate Area of not less than 1250 hectares, together with assigned District lot designations and metes and bounds descriptions.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103j.080 15 Kinnamax
(x'anmas) Extension of 4 +/- ha District lot 8067, Range 5, coast district (the former i.r. and extension are to be one parcel) Extension site description:
Commencing at the southeast corner of former kinnamax i.r. 15, with said Southeast corner being a point on the northerly natural boundary of Kwinamass bay; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of former kinnamax i.r. 15 A distance of 54 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 104°00'00" a distance of 315 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 77°00'00" a distance of 240 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 166°00'00" a distance of 70 +/- metres to the Northerly natural boundary of kwinamass bay; Thence southwesterly and northwesterly along the northerly natural Boundary of kwinamass bay to the point of commencement.
The total area for this extension is to be 4 +/- hectares.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103j.080 16 Talahaat
(t X
Aala
X
Hatkw)
Extension of 46 +/- ha District lot 8068, Range 5, coast district District lot 8073, Range 5, coast district Extension site description:
Commencing at the northwest corner of former talahaat i.r. no. 16; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of said former i.r. to the Northeast corner of district lot 3970, being knames i.r. no. 45; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 3970 Produced to the right natural boundary of kwinamass river; Thence in a general westerly direction along the right natural boundary Of kwinamass river to a point thereon, with said point lying due west of The northwest corner of district lot 3970, a distance of 1300 +/- Metres; thence due west, a distance of 144 +/- metres; Thence due north a distance of 419 +/- metres to the southerly boundary Of the road; thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly Boundary of the road, including the works, to the northerly prolongation Of the westerly boundary of former talahaat i.r. no. 16; Thence southerly to and along the westerly boundary of former talahaat I.r. 16 to the point of commencement.
The total area for this extension is to be 46 +/- hectares.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103o.070& 103o.080 17 Georgie
(x'uji) District lot 7221, Cassiar district 103p.091 19 Scamakounst
(sgamagunt) District lot 7222, Cassiar district 103p.021 20 Kinmelit
(gwinmilit) District lot 7223, Cassiar district 103p.021 21 Slooks
(xlukwskw) District lot 7224, Cassiar district 103p.022 22 Staqoo
(ksi xts'at'kw) Extension of 8 +/- ha District lot 7226, Cassiar district District lot 7247, Cassiar district Extension site description:
Commencing at the northeast corner of former staqoo i.r. no. 22; Thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of the easterly Boundary of said former i.r., a distance of 345 +/- metres; Thence westerly a distance of 239 +/- metres along a line that runs Parallel to the northerly boundary of said former i.r. to the easterly Natural boundary of observatory inlet; Thence southerly along the easterly natural boundary of observatory Inlet to the northwest corner of former staqoo i.r. no. 22, being a Point thereon, Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of said former staqoo i.r.
No. 22 to the point of commencement.
The total area of this extension is to be 8+/- hectares.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103p.032 23 Ktsinet
(xts'init) Extensions consisting Of 3 parcels of 158 +/-ha in total District lot 7227, Cassiar district District lots 7228 to 7230 (inclusive), cassiar district Extension site descriptions:
Firstly: commencing at the southwest corner of former ktsinet i.r. no.
23; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said former i.r. a Distance of 450 +/- metres; Thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to said southerly Boundary for a distance of 220 +/- metres; Thence westerly a distance of 360 +/- metres along a line drawn parallel To said southerly boundary to the easterly natural boundary of paddy Passage;
Thence northerly along the easterly natural boundary of paddy passage to The point of commencement; Secondly: that part of perry peninsula lying to the south of the Westerly prolongation of the most northerly boundary of former ktsinet I.r. no. 23 and to the north and west of former ktsinet i.r. no. 23, Excepting thereout perry spit; and Thirdly: commencing at the northeast corner of former ktsinet i.r. no.
23; Thence due east a distance of 226 +/- metres; Thence due north a distance of 1566 +/- metres; thence due east a Distance of 373 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 43°43'00" a distance of 500 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 6°54'00" a distance of 220 +/- metres, more or Less to the southeasterly natural boundary of bessie lake; Thence southwesterly, westerly and northeasterly along southerly and Westerly natural boundaries of bessie lake to a point on said westerly Natural boundary lying 200 metres due north of the most southerly point Of bessie lake; Thence due west to the easterly natural boundary of observatory inlet; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly natural Boundary of observatory inlet to the northwest corner of former ktsinet I.r. no. 23, being a point thereon; Thence easterly along the most northerly boundary of former ktsinet i.r.
No. 23 to the northeast corner thereof, being also the point of Commencement.
The total area for the three sites is 154 +/- hectares, comprised of 8 Hectares, 23 hectares, and 123 hectares, respectively.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103p.043 24 Gitzault
(gits'oohl) Firstly: assigned parcel "a" of lot 14 (explanatory plan 1554) Block 1 of lot 931, cassiar district, plan 1515; Secondly: those portions of lots 16 and 17 of block 1 of lot 931, Cassiar district, plan 1515 lying and being to the west of the Lane on said plan 1515; Thirdly: lots 14, 15 and lot 18 of block 1; lot 2 of block 2; lots 1 to 3 (inclusive) of block 3; lots 1 to 6 (inclusive) of block 4; Lot 8 of block 5; lots 2 to 8 (inclusive) and lot 16 of block 6; Lots 6 to 11 (inclusive) of block 7; lots 1 to 7 (inclusive) of Block 9; lot 2 of block 10; blocks 11 to 24 (inclusive); lots 1 to 11 (inclusive) of block 25; lots 1 to 22 (inclusive) of block 26; Lots 1 to 22 (inclusive) of block 27; lots 1 to 11 (inclusive) of Block 28; blocks 30 to 44 (inclusive); all of lot 931, cassiar District, plan 1515, except thereout from said lot 14 of block 1 Explanatory plan 1554; and Fourthly: block a of lot 931, cassiar district, being the bed of The kitsault river Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103p.042 26 Tackuan
(t'ak'uwaan) Extensions consisting Of 2 parcels of 68 +/- ha in total District lot 7231, Cassiar district; District lots 7232 and 7233, Cassiar district Extension site descriptions:
Firstly: commencing at the southeast corner of former tackuan i.r. no.
26, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of former tachuan i.r. no.
26, a distance of 190 +/- metres; Thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the southerly Boundary of former tachuan i.r. no. 26 for a distance of 393 +/- metres; Thence easterly along a line drawn parallel to the southerly boundary of Former tachuan i.r. no. 26 a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less to The westerly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence northerly along the westerly natural boundary of hastings arm to The point of commencement; and Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of former tackuan i.r. no.
26, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of former tackuan i.r. no.
26 a distance of 590 +/- metres; Thence northerly along a line drawn perpendicular to said northerly Boundary for a distance of 1118 +/- metres; Thence easterly for a distance of 340 +/- metres along a line drawn Parallel to the northerly boundary of former tackuan i.r. no. 26 to the Westerly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence in a general southerly direction along said natural boundary to The northeast corner of former tackuan i.r. no. 26, being a point Thereon, and also being the point of commencement.
The total area for the two sites is 68 +/- hectares, comprised of 5 +/- Hectares and 63 +/- hectares, respectively.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103p.042 26a Tackuan
(t'ak'uwaan) District lot 5433, Cassiar district 103p.061 27 Kshwan
(ks wan) Extensions consisting Of 2 parcels of 165 +/- ha in total District lot 7225, Cassiar district District lots 7252 and 7253, Cassiar district Extension site descriptions:
Firstly: commencing at the most westerly southwest corner of former Kshwan i.r. no. 27; Thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of the westerly Boundary of former kshwan i.r. no. 27 a distance of 972 +/- metres; Thence easterly along a line drawn perpendicular to the previously Described course for a distance of 45 +/- metres to the westerly natural Boundary of hastings arm; Thence northerly along said natural boundary to the southerly boundary Of former kshwan i.r. no. 27; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of Former kshwan i.r. no. 27 to the most westerly southwest corner thereof, Being also the point of commencement; and Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of district 4075, being Former kshwan i.r. no. 27 a; Thence easterly along the easterly prolongation of the northerly Boundary of said district lot 4075, a distance of 320 +/- metres; Thence southerly a distance of 1766 +/- metres along a line drawn Parallel to the easterly boundary of district lot 4075; Thence easterly a distance of 348 +/- metres along a line drawn Perpendicular to the previously described course; Thence southerly a distance of 1709+/- metres along a line drawn Parallel to the easterly boundary of district lot 4075; Thence westerly a distance of 338 +/- metres along a line drawn Perpendicular to the previously described course to the easterly natural Boundary of hastings arm; Thence in a general northerly direction along said natural boundary to The southerly boundary of district lot 4075; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 4075 to the northeast corner thereof, being Also the point of commencement.
The total area for the two sites is 162 +/- hectares, comprised of 11 +/- hectares and 151 +/- hectares, respectively.
(note: this site is subject to a statutory right of way.) Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103p.062 27a Kshwan
(ks wan) District lot 4075, Cassiar district 103i.083 38 Lakbelak
(la X
Bila
K
) District lot 6453, Range 5 coast district 103i.082 39 Lakbelak creek (la X
Bila
K
) District lot 6455, Range 5 coast district 103i.072 40 Lakbelak lake (la X
Bila
K
) District lot 6454, Range 5 coast district 103o/1e 42 Dogfish bay (xmaat'in) Extension consisting of 3 parcels of 700 +/- ha In total District lots 628a and 5432, Cassiar district District lots 627, 628, and 7234, all Cassiar district Extension site descriptions:
Firstly: district lots 627 and 628, cassiar district; and Secondly: commencing at a point on the northerly boundary of district Lot 5432, cassiar district, being the former dogfish bay i.r. no. 42, 1273 +/- metres of district lot 5432) from the northeast corner of said District lot; Thence due north a distance of 1600 +/- metres; Thence due east a distance of 1484 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 31°15'00" 1629 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 91°20'00" a distance of 989 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 179°20'00" a distance of 497 +/-metres; Thence on a bearing of 212°28'00" a distance of 3902 +/- metres to the Easterly boundary of district lot 5432, cassiar district; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 5432 to the point of commencement.
The total area of the two sites is 700 +/- hectares, comprised of 98 +/- Hectares and 602 +/- hectares, respectively.
Map ref:
I.r. # I.r. name District lot designations (assigned or existing) 103o/1e 43 Pearse island (wil milit) Extension of 108 +/- ha District lot 5431, Cassiar district District lot 7235, Cassiar district Extension site description:
Commencing at a point on the westerly boundary of district lot 5431, Cassiar district, being former pearse island i.r. no. 43, 900 +/- metres From the southwest corner of district lot 5431; Thence on a bearing of 265°24'00" a distance of 1638 +/- metres; Thence due north a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less, to the Natural boundary of pearse canal; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Pearse canal to tree point; Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly natural Boundary of wiskey bay to the northwest corner of district lot 5431, Being a point thereon; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 5431, Cassiar district to the point of commencement.
The total area of the site is 108 +/- hectares.
Appendix d-3 Sketches of category a lands Sketch 1
Former indian reserve no. 15 "kinnamax" (x'anmas) and extension Sketch 2
Former indian reserve no. 16 "talahaat" (t X
Aala
X
Hatkw) and extension Sketch 3
Former indian reserve no. 17 "georgie" (x'uji) Sketch 4
Former indian reserve no. 19 "scamakounst" (sgamagunt) Sketch 5
Former indian reserve no. 20 "kinmelit" (gwinmilit) Sketch 6
Former indian reserve no. 21 "slooks" (xlukwskw) Sketch 7
Former indian reserve no. 22 "staqoo" (ksi xts'at'kw) Sketch 8
Former indian reserve no. 23 "ktsinet" (xts'init) and extensions Sketch 9
Former indian reserve no. 24 "gitzault" (gits'oohl) Sketch 10
Former indian reserves no. 26 and 26a "tackuan" (t'ak'uwaan) and Extensions
Sketch 11
Former indian reserves no. 27 and 27a "kshwan" (ks wan) and extensions Sketch 12
Former indian reserve no. 38 "lakbelak" (la X
Bila
K
) Sketch 13
Former indian reserve no. 39 "lakbelak creek" (la X
Bila
K
) Sketch 14
Former indian reserve no. 40 "lakbelak lake" (la X
Bila
K
) Sketch 15
Former indian reserve no. 42 "dogfish bay" (xmaat'in) and extension Sketch 16
Former indian reserve no. 43 "pearse island" (wil milit) and extension Appendix d-4 List of estates, interests, charges, Mineral claims, encumbrances, licences And permits affecting category a lands Map ref:
Site
Encumbrance
103p.042 Extensions to former tackuan I.r. no. 26 to be surveyed as District lots 7232 and 7233, Cassiar district.
Mineral claims (as listed below) Tenure no.
Tenure name Tenure type 252013 Car 3
15 unit claim (3n x e) 252033 Any 3
12 unit claim (4s x 3e) 252035 Any 5
15 unit claim (5s x 2e) Map ref:
Site
Encumbrance
103p.061, 062 Former kshwan i.r. no. 27 and Former kshwan i.r. no. 27a, being Surveyed as district lots 7225 and 4075, cassiar district, respectively.
Extension to former kshwan i.r.
No. 27a to be surveyed as district Lot 7252, cassiar district.
Statutory right of way under Section 218 of the Land title act Mineral claims (as listed below) Tenure no.
Tenure name Tenure type 323599 Mast 1
Two post claim 323600 Mast 2
Two post claim 323601 Mast 3
Two post claim 323602 Mast 4
Two post claim All within cassiar land district and skeena mining Division.
Appendix d-5 Sketches showing the location of active Mineral claims on category a lands Sketch 1
Mineral claims in vicinity of former indian reserve no.s 26 and 26a "tackuan"; and Sketch 2
Mineral claims in vicinity of former indian reserve no.s 27 and 27a "kshwan".
Appendix d-6 Category b lands:
Listing of parcels of unsurveyed crown land outside of nisg̱a'a lands, Which after survey will have an aggregate area of not less than 250 Hectares, together with assigned district lot designations and metes and Bounds descriptions. (see appendix d-1 for general location of sites.) 1) Hattie island Described as being:
District lot 7236, cassiar district.
All of hattie island.
The total area of this site is to be 11+/- hectares.
(note: the survey of district lot 3829, cassiar district, is to be Canceled.)
2) Fords cove Described as District lot 7237, cassiar district.
Firstly: commencing at a post which is placed on the natural Boundary of fords cove at its northerly limits; Thence due east a distance of 77 +/- metres; Thence due south a distance of 453 +/- metres; Thence due west a distance of 505 +/- metres, more or less, to the Easterly natural boundary of portland canal; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly Natural boundary of portland canal to the point of commencement; And
Secondly: green islets.
The total area of this site is to be 9 +/- hectares.
3) Winter inlet Described as District lot 8069, range 5 coast district.
Commencing at a point on the southwesterly natural boundary of Winter inlet marked by a blazed tree with flagging (approximate Latitude 54°48'53" and longitude 130°26'45"); Thence on a bearing of 243°00'00" a distance of 100 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 330°00'00" a distance of 970.+/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 63°00'00" a distance of 285 +/- metres, More or less, to the southwesterly natural boundary of winter Inlet;
Thence in a general southeasterly direction along said natural Boundary of winter inlet to the point of commencement.
The total area of this site is to be 10.5 +/- hectares.
4) Nasoga gulf Described as being District lot 104, range 5 coast district.
That portion of district lot 104, range 5 coast district, which Lies to the south of a line drawn parallel to and 87 metres Perpendicularly distant southerly from the northerly boundary of Said district lot.
The total area of this site is to be 6 +/- hectares.
(this is to be a resurvey of district lot 104; the two creeks Passing through this parcel are subject to riparian corridors.) 5) Echo cove Described as Block a of district lots 3 and 14, range 5 coast district.
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 3, range 5 Coast district, being a point on the westerly natural boundary of Nass harbour; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 3 a Distance of 714 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 250°08'00" a distance of 352 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 183°16'00" a distance of 100 +/- metres, More or less, to the northerly natural boundary of echo cove; Thence easterly and in a general southwesterly direction along the Northerly and southeasterly natural boundaries of echo cove to the Northwest corner of district lot 15, being a point on said natural Boundary;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 15 And continuing easterly along the southerly boundary of district Lot 3 a total distance of 326 +/- metres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District lot 3, being a point on the natural boundary of nass bay; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural Boundary of nass bay following the general trend of the natural Boundary of nass bay for a distance of 340 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 273°30'00" a distance of 140 +/- metres Thence on a bearing of 3°15'00" a distance of 322 +/- metres, more Or less, to the easterly natural boundary of nass harbour; Thence in general southerly, westerly and northerly directions Along the easterly, southerly and westerly natural boundaries of Nass harbour to the northwest corner of district lot 3, being a Point on the westerly natural boundary of nass harbour, and being Also the point of commencement.
The total area of this site is to be 40 +/- hectares.
(this site is subject to riparian corridors.) 6) Kinskuch lake Described as District lot 7238, cassiar district.
Commencing at a post which is flagged and blazed set on the Westerly natural boundary of kinskuch lake (approximate latitude 55°40'15" and 129°23'16"; Thence on a bearing of 239°50'00" a distance of 195 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 200°00'00" a distance of 487 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 181°41'00" a distance of 107 +/- metres, More or less, to the westerly natural boundary of kinskuch lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the westerly Natural boundary of kinskuch lake to the point of commencement.
The total area of this site is to be 7 +/- hectares.
7) Jade lake Described as District lot 7239, cassiar district.
Commencing at a point on the southerly natural boundary of jade Lake marked by a blazed tree (approximate latitude 55°44'14" and Longitude 129°24'33");
Thence due south a distance of 140 +/- metres; Thence due west a distance of 100 +/- metres; Thence due north a distance of 109 +/- metres, more or less, to The southerly natural boundary of jade lake; Thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly natural Boundary of jade lake to the point of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 1 +/- hectare.
8) Kitsault lake Described as District lot 7240, cassiar district.
Commencing at a point on the easterly natural boundary of kitsault Lake marked by a blazed tree (approximate latitude 55°45'34" and Longitude 129°28'48");
Thence southwesterly in a straight line a distance of 224 +/- Metres to the easterly natural boundary of kitsault lake; Thence westerly, northeasterly and easterly along said easterly Natural boundary of kitsault lake to the point of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 2 +/- hectares.
9) Kwinageese lake Described as being District lots 7245 and 7246, cassiar district Two islands in kwinageese lake: the first being 5.2 +/- hectares In size; and the second being 0.5 +/- hectares in size.
The total area for this site is to be 6+/- hectares.
10) Ohl creek Described as District lot 7241, cassiar district.
Commencing at a point on the right natural boundary of ohl creek a Distance of 170 +/- metres northeasterly along said natural Boundary from the intersection of said natural boundary with the Easterly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence due north a distance of 76 +/- metres; Thence due west a distance of 161 +/- metres, more or less, to the Easterly natural boundary of hastings arm; Thence southerly along the easterly natural boundary of hastings Arm to the right natural boundary of ohl creek; Thence northeasterly along said natural boundary to the point of Commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 2 +/- hectares.
(this site is subject to a riparian corridor.) 11) Meziadin junction Described as District lot 7242, cassiar district.
Commencing at the intersection of the northerly boundary of Stewart-cassiar highway with the northerly prolongation of the Easterly boundary of district lot 1100, cassiar district; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of stewart-cassiar Highway a distance of 120 +/- metres; Thence northerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the northerly Boundary of stewart-cassiar highway a distance of 100 +/- metres; Thence westerly along a line drawn parallel to the northerly Boundary of stewart-cassiar highway a distance of 230 +/- metres; Thence southerly along a line drawn perpendicular to the Previously described course a distance of 70 +/- metres; Thence easterly along a line drawn parallel to the stewart-cassiar Highway a distance of 110 +/- metres; Thence southerly in a straight line to the point of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 2+/- hectares.
12) Meziadin lake Described as District lot 7244, cassiar district.
Firstly: commencing at a post which is flagged and blazed on the Easterly natural boundary of meziadin lake (approximate latitude 56°02'04" and longitude 129°13'00"); Thence due east a distance of 177 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 150°53' 00" a distance of 2001 +/- metres; Thence due south a distance of 647 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 150°53'00" a distance of 610 +/- metres; Thence due south a distance of 760 +/- metres Thence on a bearing of 150°53'00" a distance of 927 +/- metres; Thence due west a distance of 584 +/- metres; Thence on a bearing of 330°47'00" a distance of 1186 +/- metres; Thence due east a distance of 130 +/- metres, more or less, to the Southwesterly natural boundary of meziadin lake; Thence southeasterly and in a general northerly direction along The southwesterly and easterly natural boundaries of meziadin lake To the point of commencement; and Secondly: the small island 1 +/- hectare in size in the vicinity Of the northwest corner of district lot 2447, cassiar district.
The total area for this site is to be 137.5 hectares, comprised of 136.5 +/- hectares and 1 +/- hectares, respectively.
(note: existing district lots will be canceled.) 13) Amoth lake Described as District lot 8070, range 5 coast district.
Commencing at the most northerly point on the natural boundary of Amoth lake; Thence due east a distance of 140 +/- metres; Thence due south a distance of 540 +/- metres, more or less, to The easterly natural boundary of amoth lake; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural Boundary of amoth lake to the point of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 7 +/- hectares.
(this site is subject to a riparian corridor.) 14) Amoth headwaters lake Described as District lot 8071, range 5, coast district.
Commencing at the intersection of the left natural boundary of Amoth creek with the northerly natural boundary of amoth Headwaters lake; Thence due north a distance of 100 +/- metres; Thence due east a distance of 273 +/- metres; Thence due south a distance of 276 +/- metres; Thence due west a distance of 100 +/- metres, more or less to the Easterly natural boundary of amoth headwaters lake; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the easterly and Northerly natural boundaries of amoth headwaters lake to the point Of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 4 +/- hectares.
(this site is subject to a riparian corridor.) 15) Grizzly bear lake Described as District lot 7243, cassiar district Commencing at the intersection of the left natural boundary of an Unnamed creek with the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar Highway;
Thence southerly along the left natural boundary of said unnamed Creek a distance of 60 +/- metres Thence on a bearing of 123°00'00" a distance of 360 +/- metres to The westerly natural boundary of grizzly bear lake; Thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly Natural boundaries of grizzly bear lake to the southerly boundary Of stewart-cassiar highway; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar Highway to the point of commencement.
The total area for this site is to be 5 +/- hectares.
Appendix d-7 Sketches of category b lands:
Sketch 1
Hattie island Sketch 2
Fords cove Sketch 3
Winter inlet Sketch 4
Nasoga gulf Sketch 5
Echo cove Sketch 6
Kinskuch lake Sketch 7
Jade lake Sketch 8
Kitsault lake Sketch 9
Kwinageese lake Sketch 10
Ohl creek site Sketch 11
Meziadin junction Sketch 12
Meziadin lake Sketch 13
Amoth lake Sketch 14
Amoth headwaters lake Sketch 15
Grizzly bear lake Appendix d-8 List of estates, interests, charges, Mineral claims, encumbrances, licences And permits located on category b lands.
Map ref:
Site
Encumbrance
103p. 021 Hattie island Licence of occupation for a navigation light 103j. 090 Nasoga gulf Section 219 of the Land title act Covenant.
103i. 091 Echo cove Section 219 of the Land title act Covenant.
103p. 052 Ohl creek Section 219 of the Land title act Covenant.
103i. 072,073 Amoth lake Section 219 of the Land title act Covenant and a health covenant.
103i. 072 Amoth lake headwaters Section 219 of the Land title act Covenant and a health covenant.
Appendix e Map of nisg̱a'a commercial Recreation tenure Map showing operating areas of the Nisg̱a'a commercial recreation tenure Link to large map Appendix f Heritage sites and Key geographic features Appendix f-1 Sites of cultural and historic significance to the nisg̱a'a Nation to be designated as provincial heritage sites Appendix f-2 Names to be recorded in the british columbia geographic names Information system Appendix f-3 Place names to be changed by british columbia Appendix f-1 Sites of cultural and historic significance To the nisg̱a'a nation to be designated as Provincial heritage sites Map ref:
Site
Description
103p. 032 Ksi galsgiist (kelskiist creek) Site is at the mouth of the kelskiist (kelskiist creek) creek and Is approximately 1+/- hectares in size.
104a. 052 Treaty creek Site is an area of 1 +/- hectares surrounding a large rock outcrop Found along the right natural boundary of treaty creek.
104h. 015 Magoonhl lisims (nass lake) Site is a small peninsula located on the east side of nass lake And is 0.75 +/- hectares in size.
103p. 057 G
Enim sgeenix (grease trail) A section of 1 +/- hectares along the historic grease trail where The trail crossed the cranberry river and where the trail is Preserved in an undisturbed state.
103p. 025 G
Enim sgeenix (grease trail) At the request of nisg̱a'a lisims government/nisg̱a'a nation, British columbia will designate as a provincial heritage site a Second section of the historic grease trail near the site of Gitlax'aws (grease harbour) on nisg̱a'a lands.
Appendix f-2 Names to be recorded in the british columbia Geographic names information system.
Map ref:
Current name Nisg̱a'a name 103p. 014 Canyon city Gitwinksihlkw
103p. 003 Greenville
Lax
G
Alts'ap 103i. 091 Kincolith
Gin
G
Olx
103p. 014 Vetter peak X
Hlawit
103p. 056 Kinskuch river Ksi gin G
Sox
103p. 064 Kinskuch lake T'aam gin G
Sox
103p. 025 Grease harbour (village) Gitla
X
Ksiip
103p. 002 Fishery bay Ts'im K
'ol'hl da oots'ip 103p. 025 Tseax river Ksi sii aks 103p. 035 Kwinatahl river Ksi gwinhat'al 103p. 056 Kiteen river Ksi gahlt'in 103p. 025 Grease harbour (fishing site) Ts'im anwiihlist 103p. 014 Zolzap river Ksi ts'oohl ts'ap 103p. 025 Seaskinnish river Ksi s G
Asginist
103p. 025 New aiyansh Wii la X
K
Ap
103p. 025 Shumal river Ks
G
A'maal 103i. 092 Ishkeenickh river Ksi hlgin X
103p. 003 Ksedin creek Ksi mat'in 103 j.080 Kwinamass river Ksi x'anmas 103j. 100 Unnamed mountain Xk'aat'aapgwit 103p. 001 Scowban creek (not official) Ksi s G
Awban
103i. 091 Kincolith river Ksi gin G
Olx
103p. 001 Iknouk river Xnukw
103i. 091 Burton creek Ksgyukwsa'a 103j. 080 Kinnamax i.r. no. 15 X'anmas 103j. 080 Tahahaat i.r. no. 16 T
X
Aala
X
Hatkw
103o.070 Georgie i.r. no. 17 X'uji 103p. 091 Scamakounst i.r. no. 19 S
G
Amagunt
103p. 021 Kinmelit i.r. no. 20 Gwinmilit
103p. 021 Slooks i.r. no. 21 Xlukwskw
103p. 022 Staqoo i.r. no. 22 Ksi xts'at'kw 103p. 032 Ktsinet i.r. no. 23 Xts'init 103p. 043 Gitzault i.r. no. 24 Gits'oohl 103p. 042 Tackuan i.r.s no. 26 and no. 26a T'ak'uwaan 103p. 061 and 062 Kshwan i.r.s no. 27 and no. 27a Ks wan 103i. 083 Lakbelak i.r. no. 38 La
X
Bila
K
103i. 082 Lakbelak creek i.r. no. 39 La
X
Bila
K
103i. 072 Lakbelak lake i.r. no. 40 La
X
Bila
K
103o.010 Dogfish bay i.r. no. 42 Xmaat'in 103o.010 Pearse island i.r. no. 43 Wil milit 103i. 091 Iceberg bay Ts'im s G
Alt
103p. 062 Mt. fowler K'ipmat'iskw 103p. 042 and 043 Alice arm K'alii ts'im gits'oohl 103j. 090 Nasoga gulf T'sim s G
Aawa'a 103p. 042 Hastings arm K'alii kshwan 103i. 092 Nass river K'alii aksim lisims 103p. 066 Kinskuch peak Sganisim gingsox 103o.010 Portland canal K'alii X
K'alaan 104a.004 Meziadin lake T'aam mits'iiaadin 103p. 056 Cranberry river Ksi w'iipdalks 104a.068 Muskaboo creek Ksi m'aas gibuu 103i. 092 Red bluff i.r. no. 88 La
X
Masgwit
Appendix f-3 Place names to be changed by british columbia Map ref:
Current name Nisg̱a'a name 103p. 014 Canyon city Gitwinksihlkw
103p. 003 Greenville
Lax
G
Alts'ap 103i. 091 Kincolith
Gingolx
103p. 014 Vetter peak X
Hlawit
103p. 025 Grease harbour (village) Gitla
X
Ksiip
103p. 002 Fishery bay Ts'im K
'ol'hl da oots'ip 103p. 025 Tseax river Ksi sii aks 103p. 035 Kwinatahl river Ksi gwinhat'al 103p. 025 Grease harbour (fishing site) Ts'im anwiihlist 103p. 014 Zolzap river Ksi ts'oohl ts'ap 103p. 025 Seaskinnish river Ksi s G
Asginist
103p. 025 New aiyansh (old village site) Wii la X
K
Ap
103p. 025 Shumal river Ksga'maal 103i. 092 Ishkeenickh river Ksi hlgin X
103p. 003 Ksedin creek Ksi mat'in 103 j.080 Kwinamass river Ksi x'anmas 103j. 100 Unnamed mountain Xk'aat'aapgwit 103p. 001 Scowban creek (not official) Ksi s G
Awban
103i. 091 Kincolith river Ksi gin G
Olx
103p. 001 Iknouk river Xnukw
103i. 091 Burton creek Ksgyukwsa'a 103j. 080 Kinnamax i.r. no. 15 X'anmas 103j. 080 Tahahaat i.r. no. 16 T
X
Aala
X
Hatkw
103o.070 Georgie i.r. no. 17 X"uji 103p. 091 Scamakounst i.r. no. 19 S
G
Amagunt
103p. 021 Kinmelit i.r. no. 20 Gwinmilit
103p. 021 Slooks i.r. no. 21 Xlukwskw
103p. 022 Staqoo i.r. no. 22 Ksi xts' at'kw 103p. 032 Ktsinet i.r. no. 23 Xts'init 103p. 043 Gitzault i.r. no. 24 Gits'oohl 103p. 042 Tackuan i.r.s no. 26 & 26a T' ak' uwaan 103p. 061 and 062 Kshwan i.r.s no. 27 & 27a Ks wan 103i. 083 Lakbelak i.r. no. 38 La
X
Bila
K
103i. 082 Lakbelak creek i.r. no. 39 La
X
Bila
K
103i. 072 Lakbelak lake i.r. no. 40 La
X
Bila
K
103o.010 Dogfish bay i.r. no. 42 Xmaat'in 103o.010 Pearse island i.r. no. 43 Wil milit Appendix g Parks and ecological reserve Appendix g-1 Map and metes and bounds description of anhluut'ukwsim laxmihl Angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a (a.k.a. nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed Park)
Appendix g-2 Map and metes and bounds description of gingietl creek Ecological reserve no. 115 Appendix g-3 Map and metes and bounds description of bear glacier park Appendix g-1 Metes and bounds description of anhluut'ukwsim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a (a.k.a. nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park) Map
Link to large map All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that land Or land covered by water lying below the present natural boundary, Situated in cassiar district and lying within the following described Boundaries:
Commencing at the post set at the southeast corner of district lot 1093, Being former gwinaha indian reserve no. 44, with said post to be marked #54; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 1093, being Former gwinaha indian reserve no. 44, and continuing northerly along a Portion of the easterly boundary of former gitwinksihlkw (kitwilluchsilt) indian reserve no. 7, passing through the post set at The southeast corner thereof and to be marked number #53, to the post Set at the intersection of said easterly boundary with the left natural Boundary of nass river, and with said post to be marked number #52; Thence in a generally northeasterly direction along said natural Boundary of nass river to the southwest corner of district lot 1094, Being former amaral indian reserve no. 46 and 47 (undivided) and a point On said natural boundary; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 1094, being former amaral indian reserve no.
46 and 47 (undivided) to the southwest corner of former amatal indian Reserve no. 6; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of former amatal indian reserve no. 6 to the left natural Boundary of nass river, and being the river channel lying to the south And east of former amatal indian reserve no. 5; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the said natural Boundary of nass river to the southwest corner of district lot 5287, Being former quinogag indian reserve no. 61 and a point on said natural Boundary;
Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 5287, being former quinogag indian reserve No. 61, to the northeast corner thereof, being a point on the left Natural boundary of nass river; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along said natural boundary Of nass river to the left natural boundary of tseax river; Thence southeasterly along the left natural boundary of tseax river to a Point thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 270° from the post Set at the southeast corner of district lot 5275, being former Ksilamisk indian reserve no. 89, and to be marked #51; Thence on a bearing of 90°, passing through the southeast corner of District lot 5275, being former ksilamisk indian reserve no.89, to the Intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 60 metres Perpendicularly distant easterly from the right natural boundary of Tseax river, and with said intersection to be marked by a post to be set And numbered #50; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to, and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the Right natural boundary of tseax river to the most westerly boundary of Former new aiyansh indian reserve no. 1 as shown on plan 65110 recorded In the canada lands surveys records at ottawa; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of former new aiyansh Indian reserve no. 1 to the northeast corner of lot a of district lot 4012, plan 9176; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of said lot a to the Northwest corner thereof; Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of Said lot a to the southwest corner thereof, with a portion of the Westerly boundary of said lot a being also the right natural boundary of Tseax river and with said southwest corner being a point being a point Thereon;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of said lot a to its Intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly Distant easterly from the right natural boundary of tseax river; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to, and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the Right natural boundary of tseax river to the southerly prolongation of The easterly boundary of district lot 4014; Thence northerly to and along the easterly boundary of district lot 4014, passing through the post set at the southeast corner thereof, and To be marked as post number #49, to the intersection of said easterly Boundary with a line drawn parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly Distant easterly from the centre line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass Valley road); Thence in a general southeasterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to and 600 metres perpendicularly distant easterly from the Centre line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass valley road), to the Middle line of bubo creek; Thence on a bearing of 176°, a distance of 2.700 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 63°, a distance of 2.175 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 53°, a distance of 1.175 kilometres, more or Less, to a post to be which is to be set on the southerly boundary of The watershed of bubo creek; Thence on a bearing of 1°24'00", a distance of 3.087 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 328°37'00", a distance of 1.160 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 21°49'00", a distance of 1.286 kilometres to a Post set on the left natural boundary of a tributary of eider creek; Thence on a bearing of 323°47'00", a distance of 1.600 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 288°06'00", a distance of 985 metres; Thence on a bearing of 15°45'00", a distance of 1.051 kilometres, more Or less, to post #47 which is to be set on the right natural boundary of Fulmar creek; Thence on a bearing of 294°00'00", a distance of 2.03 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 62°01'00", a distance of 2.139 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 1°48'00", a distance of 889 metres to a post Which is to be set and numbered #46; Thence on a bearing of 262°14'00", a distance of 2.106 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 321°00'00", a distance of 805 metres; Thence on a bearing of 45°46'00", a distance of 857 metres; Thence on a bearing of 303°02'00", a distance of 247 metres; Thence on a bearing of 90°00'00", a distance of 1.80 kilometres, More or less, to post number #45 which is to be set at the summit Of mount hoeft; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the summit of mount priestly, Being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of seaskinnish Creek;
Thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of Seaskinnish creek and crater creek to the southerly boundary of the Watershed of crater creek; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of crater Creek to a point thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 0°, a Distance of 300 metres, more or less, from the most northerly fork At the headwaters of sterling creek, with said fork being on an Approximate bearing of 90°, a distance of 5.50 kilometres, more or less, From the confluence of tumbling creek with the easterly natural boundary Of lava lake; Thence on a bearing of 0° to the middle line of the most southerly main Tributary of the unnamed creek that flows northwesterly into crater Creek;
Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the middle line of Said most southerly main tributary of the unnamed creek that flows Northwesterly into crater creek and continuing northwesterly along the Middle line of said unnamed creek to a point on a line drawn parallel to And 400 metres perpendicularly distant southerly from the left Natural boundary of crater creek; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the Middle line of jay creek with the westerly boundary of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass valley road); Thence in a general southerly direction along said westerly boundary of Nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass valley road) to the 55th parallel of North latitude (based on nad 83 datum); Thence westerly along said 55th parallel of north latitude to the left Natural boundary of tseax river; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn on a Bearing of 270°, and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly From, the most southerly point on the westerly natural boundary of the West arm of lava lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along said line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the Westerly natural boundary of the west arm of lava lake and continuing in A general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the westerly Natural boundary of lava lake to the point of intersection with the Middle line of aquila creek; Thence westerly along the middle line of aquila creek to a point Thereon, with said point lying on a bearing of 180° from a post set on The left natural boundary of aquila creek a distance of 953.7 metres Upstream from the confluence of aquila creek with the westerly natural Boundary of lava lake; Thence on a bearing of 0° to said post; Thence on a bearing of 3°29'37.75", a distance of 2.209 kilometres, more Or less, to the intersection with a line drawn on a bearing of 245° from Pipe post no. 31 set on the easterly side of the british columbia hydro And power authority (b.c.h.&p.a.) transmission line right-of-way as Shown on plan 5611, on deposit in the land title office in prince george (formerly prince rupert); Thence on a bearing of 65° to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the centre line of Nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass valley road); Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said line drawn Parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from The centre line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly nass valley road) to post Number #64 which is to be set at the intersection of the right natural Boundary of an unnamed creek that flows northeasterly into tseax river With said line drawn parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly Distant southwesterly from the centre line of nisg̱a'a highway (formerly Nass valley road); Thence on a bearing of 295°08'00", a distance of 2.48 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 270°15'00", a distance of 1.25 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 307°15'00", a distance of 2.500 kilometres, more Or less to post number #63 which is to be set on a bearing of 270° From the southwest corner of district lot 4013, cassiar district; Thence on a bearing of 249°15'00", a distance of 2.35 kilometres, to a Post which is to be set and numbered #62; Thence on a bearing of 150°15'00", a distance of 500 metres, to a post Which is to be set and numbered #61; Thence on a bearing of 206°45'00", a distance of 1.083 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 270°15'00", a distance of 2.277 kilometres, to a Post which is to be set and numbered #60; Thence on a bearing of 150°37'00", a distance of 497 metres; Thence on a bearing of 222°39'00", a distance of 654 metres to a post Which is to be set and numbered #59; Thence on a bearing of 248°32'00", a distance of 1.096 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 276°14'00", a distance of 695 metres, more or Less, to post numbered #58 which is to be set on the left natural Boundary of zolzap creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the left natural boundary Of zolzap creek to post numbered #57 which is to be set at the Intersection of said left natural boundary with the southerly boundary Of former zaulzap indian reserve no. 29; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of former zaulzap indian reserve no. 29, passing through the Post set at the southeast corner thereof, and to be marked number #56, To the post set at the southwest corner of district lot 1093, being Former gwinaha indian reserve no. 44, and to marked number #55; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1093, being Former gwinaha indian reserve no. 44 to the post set at the southeast Corner thereof, and to be marked post number #54, being the point of Commencement;
The whole containing approximately 17,893 hectares.
Appendix g-2 Metes and bounds description for gingietl creek ecological reserve no.
115 situated within nisg̱a'a lands Map
Link to large map Map ref: 103p.014 and 103p.024 That area known as gingietl creek ecological reserve no. 115 and more Particularly described as lying within the following boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of that part of former zaulzap indian Reserve no. 29 lying to the north of nass river; Thence on an approximate bearing of 39°00'00", a distance of 2.066 Kilometres, more or less, to post number #81 which is to be set on the Southeasterly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that flows In a general southwesterly direction into nass river, with said post Being 0°00'00", a distance of 403 metres, more or less, from the most Westerly northwest corner of former gitwinksihlkw indian reserve no. 7; Thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed Of said unnamed creek to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Shumal creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of The watershed of shumal creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed Of gingietl creek; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of the watershed of gingietl creek and continuing westerly Along the northerly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that Flows in a general southeasterly direction into nass river to post Number #82 which is to be set thereon; Thence on a bearing of 158°38'00", a distance of 2.478 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 154°51'00", a distance of 1.080 kilometres, more Or less, to post number #83 which is to be set on the right natural Boundary of nass river; Thence in a general easterly direction along the right natural boundary Of nass river to that part of the westerly boundary of former zaulzap Indian reserve no. 29 lying to the north of nass river; Thence northerly along that part of the westerly boundary of former Zaulzap indian reserve no. 29 lying to the north of nass river to the Northwest corner thereof, with said corner being the point of Commencement.
Appendix g-3 Metes and bounds description for the Boundaries of bear glacier park (to be established as a class "a" provincial park) Map
Link to large map All that parcel or tract of crown land, together with all that land or Land covered by water lying below the present natural boundary, lying Within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of Stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) with the middle line of an unnamed Creek that flows southwesterly into bear river, with said intersection Lying on a bearing of 101°15'00", a distance of 708 metres, more or Less, from the most northerly northeast corner of district lot 5364, Cassiar district, being the "some fraction" mineral claim; Thence on an approximate bearing of 214°04'00", a distance of 900 Metres, more or less, to the most easterly corner of district lot 5362, Being the "heather no. 6" mineral claim; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of District lot 5362 to the most southerly southeast corner thereof; Thence on a bearing of 226°58'00", a distance of 764 metres; Thence on a bearing of 192°44'00", a distance of 662 metres; Thence on a bearing of 182°47'00", a distance of 348 metres; Thence on a bearing of 103°22'00", a distance of 609 metres; Thence on a bearing of 58°13'00", a distance of 2346 metres; Thence on a bearing of 102°56'00", a distance of 596 metres, more or Less, to the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows in a general Northerly direction into strohn lake; Thence northeasterly and northerly along the middle line of said unnamed Creek a distance of 854 metres; Thence on a bearing of 94°52'00", a distance of 389 metres, more or Less, to the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows northeasterly Into strohn creek; Thence northeasterly along the middle line of said unnamed creek a Distance of 800 metres, more or less, to the right natural boundary of Strohn creek; Thence on a bearing of 0°00'00", a distance of 115 metres, more or less, To the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a); Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) to the point of commencement.
Excepting thereout the ministry of transportation and highways "25 mile South pit", which can be more particularly described as:
Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of Stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) with the southerly boundary of Bear glacier rest area access road; Thence southwesterly along the southerly boundary of bear glacier rest Area access road a distance of 325 metres; Thence on a bearing of 163°00'00", a distance of 125 metres; Thence on a bearing of 79°00'00", a distance of 325 metres; Thence on a bearing of 338°00'00", a distance of 248 metres, more or Less, to the point of commencement, and containing approximately 6.6 Hectares.
Appendix h Transitional provisions For forest resources Schedule 1
Map of forestry transition period planning criteria for forest Development plans Definitions
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"volume of timber harvested under the licence" Means the total of the following that are charged to the holder of the Licence:
I. the volume of timber cut under the licence and under road permits Issued under the licence, Ii. the volume of timber estimated to be wasted or damaged under cutting Permits and road permits issued under the licence, and Iii. the volume of timber cut by the holder of the licence anywhere on Nisg̱a'a lands, otherwise than in accordance with this appendix and Forest practices legislation; B.
"nisg̱a'a lands" Has the same meaning as in this agreement except that it does not Include former nisg̱a'a indian reserves, as defined in paragraph 1 of the Forest resources chapter; and C. other words and expressions that are defined in paragraph 1 of the Forest resources chapter have the same meaning in this appendix as given In that chapter.
Application
2.
Except as otherwise provided, this appendix applies to nisg̱a'a lands During the transition period.
Cut control 3.
If the annual volume of timber apportioned to a licence under paragraph 18 of the forest resources chapter is greater than 15,000 m 3 , the volume of timber harvested under the licence will:
A. for any transition year, not be less than 50%, nor more than 150%, of The annual volume of timber apportioned to that licence; and B. for the entire transition period, not exceed the lesser of:
I. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, and Ii. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, less any Reductions imposed under sections 5 or 7.
4.
If the annual volume of timber apportioned to the licence under Paragraph 18 of the forest resources chapter is 15,000 m 3 Or less, the volume of timber harvested under the licence during the Transition period will not exceed the lesser of:
A. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence; and B. the total volume of timber apportioned to that licence, less any Reductions imposed under section 7.
5.
If in a transition year, a holder of a licence to which section 3 Applies harvests a volume of timber that exceeds the specified limit for That year, the total volume apportioned to that licence for the Transition period will be reduced by an amount equal to the excess.
6.
Any timber harvest by a holder of a licence that is in excess of the Total volume of timber apportioned to that licence is an unauthorized Harvest, unless that volume was authorized in a cutting permit or road Permit issued by the forestry transition committee.
7.
If in a transition year, a holder of a licence to which section 3 Applies harvests a volume of timber that is less than the minimum limit Specified in that section for that year, the total volume apportioned to That licence for the transition period will be reduced by an amount Equal to the undercut below the minimum limit.
8.
Any volume reductions to a licence under sections 5 or 7 will be Prorated over the remaining years of the transition period.
9.
Any prorated volume referred to in section 8 will be available to the Nisg̱a'a nation to harvest in accordance with this appendix.
Status of timber harvesting rights and related obligations on the Effective date Rights to harvest timber on nisg̱a'a lands during the transition period 10.
A cutting permit referred to in section 11, and any road permit Associated with that cutting permit, remains valid until the first of The following occurs:
A. the date specified in the permit; B. the first anniversary of the effective date; or C. the cancellation of the licence that is associated with the permit.
11.
The cutting permits that section 10 applies to are:
Tfl#1
Fl a16882 Fl a16886 6am 37 001 6af 38 7an 7ao 8an 8at 8am 8al 8ar 6aj 12.
A cutting permit or road permit that was issued before the effective Date with the agreement of the nisg̱a'a tribal council under the interim Protection measures agreement entered into among canada, british Columbia and the nisg̱a'a tribal council on december 5, 1996, as amended, Remains valid until the first of the following occurs:
A. the date specified in the permit; B. the second anniversary of the effective date; or C. the cancellation of the licence that is associated with the permit.
13.
An authorization given under section 52 of the Forest act Before the effective date that authorizes an employee or agent of British columbia, acting in the course of duties, to harvest timber on An area that, on the effective date, is nisg̱a'a lands, remains valid if The authorization relates to road construction activities associated With a valid timber sale licence.
Status of non-cutting authorities on the effective date 14.
On the effective date, a road use permit that was issued before the Effective date and was associated with activities referred to in Sections 10, 11 or 12, or with a timber sale licence, remains valid Until the first of the following occurs:
A. the date specified in the permit; B. the first anniversary of the effective date; or C. the cancellation of any licence that is associated with the permit.
Status of operational plans on the effective date 15.
On the effective date, any silviculture prescription approved or in Effect on the day before the effective date, remains valid if it is Associated with:
A. a cutting permit referred to in sections 10, 11 or 12; B. a timber sale licence; or C. a harvested area.
16.
On the effective date, any logging plan in effect on the day before the Effective date remains valid if it is associated with:
A. a cutting permit referred to in sections 10, 11 or 12; or B. a timber sale licence.
Continuing obligations 17.
British columbia will fulfil on nisg̱a'a lands all obligations imposed Under forest practices legislation for areas that before the effective Date were outside of a tree farm licence area and if the timber on the Area was:
A. damaged or destroyed by natural causes, unless, before the effective Date, a determination has been made by the district manager under the Forest practices code of british columbia act That the area is too remote, too small or too inaccessible to warrant The preparation of a prescription; or B. cut, removed, damaged or destroyed in contravention of the Forest practices code of british columbia act By a person other than the holder of a major licence.
Forest development plan requirements Requirement for a forest development plan 18.
Subject to sections 10 to 12, harvesting or road related activities must Not occur under a licence unless the holder of the licence has prepared A forest development plan that:
A. has been approved by the forestry transition committee; and B. is in effect before the activities take place.
19.
The nisg̱a'a nation will not carry out timber harvesting or road related Activities in respect of the volume of timber specified in section 20 And subsection 21 (a) of the forest resources chapter unless the nisg̱a'a Nation has prepared a forest development plan that:
A. has been approved by the forestry transition committee; and B. is in effect before the activities take place.
20.
A person referred to in section 18 or 19 may apply to the forestry Transition committee for an exemption from the requirement to have an Approved forest development plan if:
A. the only harvesting that will take place on the area is:
I. the felling and removal of trees to eliminate a safety hazard, Ii. the felling of trees to facilitate the collection of seed, and the Proposed harvesting will not result in an opening of greater than one Hectare, or Iii. the felling and removal of trees that have been or will be treated To facilitate entrapment of pests; and B. no road construction is required to provide access for the timber Harvesting referred to in subsection (a).
Period and term of a forest development plan 21.
A forest development plan will cover a period up to the end of the Transition period, but will be for a shorter period if:
A. the term of the licence to which the plan relates terminates before The end of the transition period; or B. the forestry transition committee is satisfied that a plan cannot be Developed to the end of the transition period because:
I. a significant portion of the plan is for the harvesting of blowdown Or timber damaged by insects or fire and the exact location of the Damaged timber cannot be determined, Ii. there is insufficient timber available to provide operational Activities for the required period, or Iii. other similar circumstances exist that prevent a plan being Developed for the required period.
22.
Unless otherwise specified by the forestry transition committee, a Forest development plan expires one year from the date of approval of The plan.
23.
Before or after a forest development plan expires, the forestry Transition committee, may:
A. extend the term of the forest development plan for a period or Periods not exceeding a total of one year at the request of or with the Consent of the person who prepared the plan; and B. place conditions on the extension.
Content of a forest development plan 24.
A forest development plan will address an area sufficient in size to Include all areas affected by the timber harvesting and road Construction or modification operations proposed under the plan.
25.
A forest development plan will include maps, schedules and other Information for the area under the plan, sufficient to permit adequate Assessment by the forestry transition committee and resource agencies Of:
A. the topography and natural features of the area under the plan; and B. the proposed timber harvesting and road construction or modification Operations to be carried out under the plan.
26.
Without limiting section 25, a forest development plan in respect of a Licence will:
A. contain information required under the Forest practices code of british columbia act And its regulations in respect of forest development plans for a holder Of a major licence; B. contain information to the standard required by the district manager Of the kalum forest district for a forest development plan in that Forest district in respect of:
I. logging method, Ii. silvicultural system, Iii. harvest season, and Iv. wildlife tree patches; C. specify for each cutblock where harvesting is proposed during the First two years of the plan:
I. the maximum proportion of the area that may be occupied by permanent Access structures, Ii. the maximum proportion of the net area to be reforested that may be Occupied by temporary access structures, and Iii. the free growing stocking standards that will apply to the area; D. specify, for each proposed road, the proposed right of way, which Will not exceed 30 metres in width unless a greater width is approved by The forestry transition committee; and E. unless otherwise authorized by the forestry transition committee, be Consistent with the relevant material specified for similar sites and Conditions contained within ministry of forests guidebook publications Associated with the Forest practices code of british columbia act, And the regulations under that act.
27.
Without limiting section 25, a forest development plan submitted by the Nisg̱a'a nation will contain the following:
A. all information required under laws made under paragraph 6 of the Forest resources chapter; and B. for the area under the plan:
I. the size, shape and location of cutblocks proposed for harvesting During the term of the plan, and Ii. the timing of proposed timber harvesting and related road Construction, maintenance and deactivation.
28.
A forest development plan will comply with the following constraints:
A. timber harvesting is not permitted within the following areas as Shown in schedule 1 to this appendix:
I. the nass bottomlands polygon, Ii. any ecological reserve polygon, Iii. any archeological polygon, and Iv. 100 metres of either side of the centre line of the grease trail; B. timber harvesting of a road right of way is not permitted if that Harvesting is for the sole purpose of facilitating the extraction of Gravel;
C. for the pine mushroom polygon as shown in schedule 1 to this Appendix:
I. timber harvesting, including that associated with roads, will retain A minimum of 80% of the forest cover at an age of at least 120 years, And
Ii. silvicultural systems, other than for areas to be occupied by roads, Will be a selection system and provide for retention of a minimum of 70% Of the total basal area of the cutblock; D. for the tseax polygon, as shown in schedule 1 to this appendix, Timber harvesting will not result in more than 10% of the visual area Having vegetation of a height of less than five metres; E. timber harvesting will not occur within one kilometre of former Kincolith ir #14, lagaltsap ir #9, new aiyansh ir #1 or gitwinksihlkw ir #7 without the agreement of the village government for the affected Former nisg̱a'a indian reserve; F. timber harvesting will not occur within one kilometre of the gingietl Creek ecological reserve without the agreement of the gitwinksihlkw Village government; and G. timber harvesting within one kilometre of nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed Park will not result in more than 10% of the visual area having Vegetation of a height of less than five metres.
29.
A forest development plan will contain:
A. if the plan is submitted by a holder of a licence, the signature of The holder or a person who has authority to sign the plan on behalf of The holder; and B. if the plan is submitted by the nisg̱a'a nation, the signature of a Person who has authority to sign the plan on behalf of the nisg̱a'a Nation.
30.
Notwithstanding sections 25 to 28, if the forestry transition committee Determines that a timber harvesting activity that is proposed to be Carried out is restricted to minor salvage operations, the forestry Transition committee may waive any of the forest development plan Content requirements specified in those sections.
Review and comment of a forest development plan 31.
The review and comment requirements of the forest practices legislation Apply to forest development plans during the transition period.
32.
Notwithstanding section 31, if the forestry transition committee Determines that a forest development plan or amendment is necessary to Address an emergency, the forestry transition committee may vary the Review and comment requirements.
Evaluation of a forest development plan 33.
The forestry transition committee:
A. subject to subsection (b), will approve a forest development plan That meets the requirements of this appendix; but B. may refuse to approve a cutblock or road proposed in the forest Development plan that meets the requirements of this appendix, if the Forestry transition committee determines that the plan, in respect of The matters referred to in section 26, does not adequately manage and Conserve the forest resources on nisg̱a'a lands.
34.
Subject to sections 35 and 36 and the dispute resolution rules adopted Under section 64, the forestry transition committee will make a Determination under section 33 within 45 days after receiving the Submission.
35.
Before concluding its evaluation of a forest development plan, the Forestry transition committee may require the person who submitted the Plan to submit additional information that the committee reasonably Requires to determine if the plan meets the requirements specified in This appendix.
36.
If the forestry transition committee makes a request under section 35, The time period specified in section 34 is extended by the period of Time between the request for additional information and the receipt of That information.
Silviculture prescription requirements 37.
Timber harvesting, other than that associated with roads, must not occur Under a licence without an approved silviculture prescription for the Area.
38.
The district manager will prepare a silviculture prescription for an Area where the holder of a licence referred to in paragraph 29 of the Forest resources chapter has cut, removed, damaged or destroyed timber On nisg̱a'a lands in contravention of the forest practices legislation.
39.
The holder of a major licence will prepare and obtain approval of a Silviculture prescription for an area where the holder has cut, removed, Damaged or destroyed timber on nisg̱a'a lands in contravention of the Forest practices legislation.
40.
A person referred to in sections 38 and 39 may apply to the district Manager or the forestry transition committee, as the case may be, for an Exemption from the requirement to have an approved silviculture Prescription.
Content of a silviculture prescription 41.
A silviculture prescription will:
A. be consistent with an approved forest development plan for the area, Unless it is a silviculture prescription referred to in section 15; B. contain all information required under the Forest practices code of british columbia act And its regulations in respect of silviculture prescriptions, unless That information is contained within an approved forest development plan For the area; and C. unless authorized by the district manager or the forest transition Committee, as the case may be, be consistent with the relevant material Specified for similar sites and conditions contained within ministry of Forests guidebook publications associated with the Forest practices code of british columbia act And the regulations under that act.
Evaluation of a silviculture prescription 42.
The forestry transition committee or the district manager, as the case May be:
A. may require that a silviculture prescription be referred to resource Agencies for review and comment; and B. will approve a silviculture prescription that meets the requirements Of this appendix unless it is determined that the silviculture Prescription, in respect of matters referred to in section 41, does not Adequately manage and conserve the forest resources on nisg̱a'a lands.
43.
Subject to sections 44 and 45 and the dispute resolution rules adopted Under section 64, the forestry transition committee will make a Determination under section 42 within 45 snow free days after the Silviculture prescription being submitted for approval.
44.
Before concluding the evaluation of a silviculture prescription, the District manager or the forestry transition committee, as the case may Be, may require the person who submitted the prescription to submit Additional information that the district manager or committee reasonably Requires to determine if the prescription meets the requirements of this Appendix.
45.
If a request is made under section 44, the time period specified in Section 43 is extended by the period of time between the request for Additional information and the receipt of that information.
Requirements for permits Cutting permits 46.
Subject to the dispute resolution rules adopted under section 64, the District manager, or the forestry transition committee, as the case may Be, will issue a cutting permit within 45 days after receiving an Application for a cutting permit if the district manager or forestry Transition committee determines that:
A. the person making the application has the right to harvest timber and That right is not under suspension; B. the application complies with the requirements specified in this Appendix and any requirements specified in the licence; and C. the application is completely consistent with all operational plans Approved for the area.
Road permits and road use permits 47.
A holder of a licence must have a valid road use permit issued by the Forestry transition committee to use a road for timber harvesting and Related activities, unless the road is:
A. a crown road; or B. under a valid road permit held by the holder.
48.
The nisg̱a'a nation must have a valid road use permit issued by the Forestry transition committee to use a road for timber harvesting and Related activities, if the road is:
A. a crown road; or B. subject to a valid road permit.
49.
Subject to the dispute resolution rules adopted under section 64, the District manager or forestry transition committee, as the case may be, Will issue a road permit or road use permit within 45 snow free days After receiving an application for a road permit or road use permit if The district manager or forestry transition committee determines that:
A. the person making the application has the right to harvest timber and That right is not under suspension; B. the application complies with the requirements specified in this Appendix and any requirements specified in the licence; and C. the application is completely consistent with all operational plans Approved for the area.
Burning permits 50.
Forest practices legislation with respect to burning permits applies to:
A. timber harvesting and related activities by the holder of a licence On nisg̱a'a lands; and B. all persons carrying out timber harvesting and related activities on Nisg̱a'a lands during the transition period.
Forest practices Silviculture
51.
A free growing stand will be established within the net area to be Reforested on all areas of nisg̱a'a lands harvested by the holder of a Licence during the transition period.
Forest health 52.
If the forestry transition committee determines that there are insects Or diseases causing damage to a forest on an area of nisg̱a'a lands that Is subject to a holder of a licence's forest development plan, the District manager will, in a notice given to the holder of the licence, Order measures acceptable to the forestry transition committee to be Undertaken within a specified time to control or dispose of the insects Or diseases.
Forest operations on nisg̱a'a lands After the transition period 53.
Timber felled under a valid cutting permit issued to the holder of a Licence may not be removed after the transition period, unless the Holder of the licence:
A. was unable to remove the timber prior to the end of the transition Period as a result of events beyond the holder's control; and B. removes the timber within a period of not more than 30 days after the Nisg̱a'a nation and british columbia determine that conditions allow for The removal.
54.
A road permit or road use permit issued before the end of the transition Period may authorize the holder of the permit to continue to use the Road referred to in the permit after the transition period, to the Extent necessary to:
A. carry out fire hazard abatement activities; B. fulfil silviculture obligations; and C. complete road deactivation.
55.
Activities referred to in section 54 must be completed within a Reasonable time.
56.
Until the activities referred to in sections 53 and 54 are completed, The requirements of this appendix continue to apply, to the extent Necessary to address those activities and their enforcement.
General
Nisg̱a'a contractors 57.
A licence referred to in paragraph 27 of the forest resources chapter Will require the holder of the licence to use nisg̱a'a contractors to Harvest, during each transition year, the following percentages of the Actual volume harvested under the licence:
A.
Year 1
50%; B.
Year 2
70%; C.
Year 3
70%; D.
Year 4
70%; and E.
Year 5
70%.
58.
Contracts referred to in section 57 will be for a term of five years, or Until the end of the transition period, whichever period is shorter.
59.
Notwithstanding section 57, in any transition year, the holder of a Licence is relieved from the requirement in that section to the extent That no nisg̱a'a contractor is reasonably available to carry out full Phase logging of the required volume within that transition year.
Forestry transition committee 60.
The forestry transition committee consists of:
A. the district manager or person authorized by the district manager; And
B. a person authorized by the nisg̱a'a nation.
61.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation are each responsible for the Respective costs associated with their member of the forestry transition Committee.
62.
The forestry transition committee has the following mandate:
A. to evaluate all matters associated with operational plans, and Permits referred to it in paragraph 33 of the forest resources chapter, Including approvals, amendments, extensions and exemptions; B. to annually evaluate and report on the cut control status of each Holder of a licence to which section 3 applies and to impose any Resultant cut control reductions; C. to determine the volume of timber, if any, available under section 9 For harvesting by the nisg̱a'a nation; and D. to provide to british columbia, the nisg̱a'a nation and canada an Annual report concerning:
I. the cut control status, and Ii. the expenses incurred by the forestry transition committee during The preceding transition year.
63.
The forestry transition committee is not responsible for the Completeness and accuracy of information provided to it by british Columbia, the nisg̱a'a nation or the holder of a major licence.
Dispute resolution 64.
The forestry transition committee will adopt rules for arbitration of Disputes referred to in paragraph 38 of the forest resources chapter.
65.
The rules referred to in section 64 will provide that, unless the Members of the forestry transition committee otherwise agree, any Arbitration will be resolved within 45 days.
Annual reporting 66.
British columbia will, for each year of the transition period, provide To the nisg̱a'a nation a summary of compliance and enforcement activities On nisg̱a'a lands.
67.
British columbia will, on a quarterly basis, provide to the nisg̱a'a Nation a summary of timber marking and scale returns on nisg̱a'a lands.
Same economic position 68.
British columbia will pay to the nisg̱a'a nation an amount for each cubic Metre of timber harvested by a holder of a licence during the transition Period.
69.
The amount referred to in section 68 will be:
A. $6 per cubic metre; or B. if either billed stumpage or industry performance exceeds $6 per Cubic metre:
I. billed stumpage determined in accordance with the ministry of forests Interior appraisal manual, and Ii. industry performance up to a maximum of $10 per cubic metre, Determined as the value per cubic metre of the timber as at the date of Scaling on the vancouver log market, less the appraised operating costs Per cubic metre for that volume.
70.
British columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation will determine a conversion Factor for estimating the vancouver log market value of timber harvested On nisg̱a'a lands by species and grade.
71.
The operating costs referred to in subsection 69 (b) (ii) will be the Costs associated with each timber mark on nisg̱a'a lands as determined in Accordance with the ministry of forests interior appraisal manual, and Will include the following:
A. development costs; B. harvesting costs; C. transportation costs, including any barging cost adjustment; D. administration costs; E. post-logging treatment costs; F. silviculture costs; and G. stumpage costs.
72.
The amounts referred to in subsections 69 (a) and (b) (ii) will be Adjusted annually for inflation using the canada final domestic demand Implicit price index, as agreed to by the nisg̱a'a nation and british Columbia, commencing on the second anniversary of the effective date.
73.
Every three months, british columbia will pay to the nisg̱a'a nation the Amount referred to in subsection 69 (a).
74.
In addition to the payment referred to in section 73, british columbia Will pay to the nisg̱a'a nation, on a semi-annual basis unless otherwise Agreed to by british columbia and the nisg̱a'a nation, an amount equal to The difference between the amount calculated under subsection 69 (b) and The amount that was paid under section 73.
75.
British columbia will provide the nisg̱a'a nation with quarterly reports On the volume of timber harvested from nisg̱a'a lands by timber mark, Specifying:
A. species and grade; B. scale date; and C. billed stumpage.
76.
British columbia will provide the nisg̱a'a nation with a report on Operating costs by timber mark at the same frequency as specified in Section 74.
77.
British columbia will pay the nisg̱a'a nation any amount recovered from a Holder of a licence for having negligently caused or contributed to a Forest fire on nisg̱a'a lands during the transition period.
78.
The amount referred to in section 77 will be net of any reasonable costs Incurred by british columbia in controlling or suppressing a forest fire On nisg̱a'a lands.
Schedule 1
Map of forestry transition period planning criteria for forest Development plans Link to large map Appendix i Maps of nass area and areas For bivalve harvesting Appendix i - 1 Map of nass area with general location of intertidal zones for Bivalve harvesting Appendix i-2 Map of observatory inlet bivalve harvesting area Appendix i-3 Map of nasoga'a gulf bivalve harvesting area Appendix i-4 Map of winter inlet bivalve harvesting area Appendix i-1 Map of nass area with general location of intertidal zones for bivalve Harvesting
Link to large map Appendix i-2 Map of observatory inlet bivalve harvesting area Link to large map Appendix i-3 Map of nasoga'a gulf bivalve harvesting area Link to large map Appendix i-4 Map of winter inlet bivalve harvesting area Link to large map Appendix j Nass wildlife area Map and metes and bounds description of the nass wildlife area Map
Link to large map All that parcel or tract of land, together with all that land covered by Water lying below the present natural boundaries, situated in range 5 Coast and cassiar districts, and lying within the following described Area:
Commencing at boundary point no. 7 (formerly known as point "d"), being A monument set by survey upon the ground on the international boundary Between canada and alaska; Thence in a straight line to the nearest point on the westerly boundary Of the watershed of bear river; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of bear River to the northerly boundary of said watershed; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of bear River to the westerly boundary of the watershed of surprise creek; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Surprise creek to the northerly boundary of said watershed; Thence in a general easterly direction along the northerly boundaries of The watersheds of surprise creek, hanna creek, and tintina creek to the Easterly boundary of the watershed of tintina creek; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of tintina Creek to the northerly boundary of district lot 2473, cassiar district; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 2473 to the Northeast corner thereof; Thence on a bearing of 90° to the left natural boundary of nass river; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the left natural Boundary of nass river to the left natural boundary of vile creek; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the left natural Boundary of vile creek to the point where the left natural boundary of Vile creek meets the left natural boundary of the most easterly Northeasterly flowing fork thereof; Thence on a bearing of 135° to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Nass river; Thence southerly and southwesterly along the easterly and southeasterly Boundaries of the watershed of nass river to the northerly boundary of The watershed of khutzeymateen river; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Khutzeymateen river and continuing westerly along the northerly boundary Of the watersheds of those streams flowing southerly into khutzeymateen Inlet to the ridge that separates those streams flowing northwesterly Into steamer passage from those flowing northerly into kwinamass bay; Thence northwesterly along the ridge that separates those streams Flowing northwesterly into steamer passage from those flowing northerly Into kwinamass bay produced to the most northerly point on the natural Boundary of godu point; Thence on a bearing of 340° to the middle line of portland inlet; Thence southwesterly along the middle line of portland inlet to the Southeasterly prolongation of the middle line of wales passage; Thence northwesterly to and along the middle line of wales passage, Passing to the east of york island, and continuing northwesterly along The northwesterly prolongation of the middle line of wales passage Produced to the international boundary between canada and alaska; Thence in a general northerly direction along the international boundary Between canada and alaska to boundary point no. 7 (formerly known as Point "d"), being a point thereon, and also being the point of Commencement.
Appendix k Map of guide outfitter area Map of guide outfitter area with the general location of the nisg̱a'a Commercial recreation tenure areas Link to large map Appendix l Cultural artifacts and heritage Appendix l-1 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the canadian museum of Civilization to the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-2 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be shared by the canadian museum of Civilization and the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-3 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the royal british Columbia museum to the nisg̱a'a nation Appendix l-4 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be held by the royal british columbia Museum
Appendix l-1 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the Canadian museum of civilization to the nisg̱a'a nation Catalogue no.
Object
V11-c-22 Soul catcher V11-c-23 Charm
V11-c-24 Charm
V11-c-25 Charm
V11-c-28 Charm
V11-c-2097 Rattle
V11-c-1045 Mask
V11-c-2225 Sculpture
V11-c-360 Neck ring V11-c-412 Headdress
V11-c-323 ab Mask
V11-c-1733 Apron
V11-c-1735 Headdress
V11-c-1756 Neck ornament V11-c-1749 Rattle
V11-c-1801 Soul catcher V11-c-1774 Mask
V11-c-1790 Mask
V11-c-190 Charm
V11-c-191 Charm
V11-c-193 c Charm
V11-c-194 ab Charm
V11-c-196 ab Charm
V11-c-197 ab Charm
V11-c-198 Charm
V11-c-201 Charm
V11-c-206 Charm
V11-c-213 a Charm
V11-c-244 Charm
V11-c-245 Charm
V11-c-247 Charm
V11-c-264 Charm
V11-c-266 Charm
V11-c-272 Charm
V11-c-276 Charm
V11-c-277 Charm
V11-c-284 Charm
V11-c-286 Charm
V11-c-159 Soul catcher V11-c-168 Soul catcher V11-c-169 Soul catcher V11-c-170 Soul catcher V11-c-171 Soul catcher V11-c-172 Soul catcher V11-c-187 Soul catcher V11-c-199 a-c Soul catcher V11-c-249 Soul catcher V11-c-280 Soul catcher V11-c-281 b-f Soul catcher V11-c-282 b,c Soul catcher V11-c-175 Figure
V11-c-176 Figure
V11-c-181 Figure
V11-c-189 Figure
V11-c-193 abde Figure
V11-c-242 Figure
V11-c-247 Figure
V11-c-251 Figure
V11-c-252 Figure
V11-c-253 Figure
V11-c-265 Figure
V11-c-267a Figure
V11-c-267b Figure
V11-c-270 Figure
V11-c-243 a-f Charm
V11-c-254 Charm
V11-c-255 Charm
V11-c-268 a-f Charm
V11-c-278 Charm
V11-c-279 Charm
V11-c-281 a Charm
V11-c-282 a Charm
V11-c-283 Charm
V11-c-285 a-c Charm
V11-c-287 Charm
V11-c-288 Charm
V11-c-2314 Charm
V11-c-2315 Charm
V11-c-269 Tooth
V11-c-248 Bone
V11-c-202 ab Charm
V11-c-203 Charm
V11-c-204 Charm
V11-c-211a-e Charm
V11-c-212 a-g Charm
V11-c-205 Charm
V11-c-207 Charm
V11-c-208 Charm
V11-c-209 Charm
V11-c-2143 Charm
V11-c-123 Charm
V11-c-124 Charm
V11-c-147 Charm
V11-c-291 Charm
V11-c-149 Rattle
V11-c-151 Rattle
V11-c-152 Rattle
V11-c-153 Rattle
V11-c-154 Rattle
V11-c-215 Rattle
V11-c-163 Whistle
V11-c-179 Whistle
V11-c-257 Whistle
V11-c-174 Scratcher
V11-c-184 Scratcher
V11-c-185 Scratcher
V11-c-188 Scratcher
V11-c-241 Scratcher
V11-c-250 Scratcher
Appendix l-2 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be shared by the canadian museum of civilization And the nisg̱a'a nation Catalogue no.
Object
V11-c-20 Drinking cup V11-c-434 Grease dish V11-c-435 Grease bowl V11-c-95 Club (slave killer) V11-c-79 Axe (stone) V11-c-21 Mortar (lime) V11-c-460 Maul
V11-c-29ab Earrings
V11-c-30 Earring
V11-c-31 Earring
V11-c-1816 Earring
V11-c-1817 Earring
V11-c-1820 Earring
V11-c-1821 Earring
V11-c-1813 Ornament (nose) V11-c-1814 Nose ornament V11-c-1815 Ornament
V11-c-1818 Ornament
V11-c-1819 Ornament
V11-c-67 Labret
V11-c-430 Pipe
V11-c-27 Spindle whorl V11-c-177 Frontlet
V11-c-36 Spoon
V11-c-37 Spoon
V11-c-38 Spoon
V11-c-39 Spoon
V11-c-40 Spoon
V11-c-41 Spoon
V11-c-42 Spoon
V11-c-43 Spoon
V11-c-44 Spoon
V11-c-45 Spoon
V11-c-46 Spoon
V11-c-47 Spoon
V11-c-48 Spoon
V11-c-49 Spoon
V11-c-50 Spoon
V11-c-51 Spoon
V11-c-52 Spoon
V11-c-54 Spoon
V11-c-55 Spoon
V11-c-56 Spoon
V11-c-57 Spoon
V11-c-58 Spoon
V11-c-59 Spoon
V11-c-60 Spoon
V11-c-61 Spoon
V11-c-62 Spoon
V11-c-63 Spoon
V11-c-64 Spoon
V11-c-65 Spoon
V11-c-66 Spoon
V11-c-71 Spoon
V11-c-72 Spoon
V11-c-73 Spoon
V11-c-1974 Spoon
V11-c-328 Headdress
V11-c-326 Mask
V11-c-327 Mask
V11-c-1843 Figure (goat head) V11-c-1844 Figure (totem pole model) V11-c-94 Club (slave killer) V11-c-1046 Mask
V11-c-1427 Mask
V11-c-1183 ab Chest
V11-c-481 Hat (fighting cap) V11-c-482 Hat (fighting cap) V11-c-312 Mask
V11-c-313 Mask
V11-c-314 Mask
V11-c-315 Mask
V11-c-316 Mask
V11-c-317 Mask
V11-c-318 Mask
V11-c-319 Mask
V11-c-320 Mask
V11-c-321 Mask
V11-c-322 Mask
V11-c-324 Mask
V11-c-325a Mask
V11-c-458 Maul
V11-c-108 Whetstone
V11-c-437 Hammer
V11-c-438 Hammer
V11-c-443 Hammer
V11-c-210a Pendant
V11-c-112 Spoon
V11-c-210b Spoon
V11-c-118 Feast dish V11-c-119 Feast dish V11-c-1717 Spoon
V11-c-1743 Grind stone V11-c-1726 Gambling equipment V11-c-1824a-d Gambling equipment V11-c-1751 Grease dish V11-c-1732ab Dagger
V11-x-716 Knife
V11-c-1753a-c Box
V11-c-1730 Board (carved) V11-c-1734 Staff
V11-c-1713 Stick
V11-c-1748 Blanket (button) V11-c-1786 Rattle
V11-c-1801 Figure (soul catcher) V11-c-1802 Figure
V11-c-1754 Figure
V11-c-1755 Whistle
V11-c-1725 Mask
V11-c-1729 Mask
V11-c-1759 Mask
V11-c-1760 Mask
V11-c-1761 Mask
V11-c-1762 Mask
V11-c-1763 Mask
V11-c-1769 Mask
V11-c-1771 Mask
V11-c-1772 Mask
V11-c-1773 Mask
V11-c-1779 Mask
V11-c-1031 Clams
V11-c-1363 Food
V11-c-1421 Food
V11-c-1164ab Fire-making equipment V11-c-1424 Adze
V11-c-1469 Maul
V11-c-1398 Hook
V11-c-1399 Hook
V11-c-1400 Hook
V11-c-1401 Hook
V11-c-1402 Hook
V11-c-1403 Hook
V11-c-1404 Hook
V11-c-1405 Hook
V11-c-1470 Drum
V11-c-1394 Rattle
V11-c-1425 Rattle
V11-c-1417 Frontlet
V11-c-1707 Figure (min. totem pole) V11-c-1471 Figure (white squirrel) V11-c-1798 Figure (plaque) V11-c-1706 Totem pole V11-c-2146 Totem pole V11-c-2147 Totem pole V11-c-739 Mask
V11-c-1165 Mask
V11-c-1396 Mask
V11-c-1468 Mask
V11-c-1473 Mask
V11-c-1474 Mask
V11-c-1475 Mask
V11-c-1182 Figure (marionette) V11-c-1397ab Figure
V11-c-1481 Figure (stone) V11-c-706 Spoon
V11-c-1378abdefhij Spoons (8)
V11-c-1379abc Spoons (3)
V11-c-1380 Spoon
V11-c-1381abc Spoons (3)
V11-c-1382 Spoon
V11-c-1383 Spoon
V11-c-1384 Spoon
V11-c-1385 Spoon
V11-c-1386 Spoon
V11-c-1408 Spoon
V11-c-1410 Spoon
V11-c-1411 Spoon
V11-c-1829 Spoon
V11-c-1830 Spoon
V11-c-1831 Spoon
V11-c-1832 Spoon
V11-c-121 Ornament
V11-c-271 Ornament
V11-c-290 Bracelet
V11-c-260 Robe/blanket V11-c-259 Robe/blanket(chilkat) V11-c-132ab Leggings
V11-c-133ab Leggings
V11-c-178 Frontlet
V11-c-182 Labret
V11-c-183 Labret
V11-c-192 Labret
V11-c-149 Rattle (shaman) V11-c-151 Rattle (shaman) V11-c-152 Rattle
V11-c-156 Rattle
V11-c-157 Rattle
V11-c-214 Rattle
V11-c-105 Spoon
V11-c-126 Spoon
V11-c-218 Spoon
V11-c-219 Spoon
V11-c-220 Spoon
V11-c-221 Spoon
V11-c-222 Spoon
V11-c-223 Spoon
V11-c-225 Spoon
V11-c-226 Spoon
V11-c-227 Spoon
V11-c-228 Spoon
V11-c-229 Spoon
V11-c-230 Spoon
V11-c-231 Spoon
V11-c-232 Spoon
V11-c-233 Spoon
V11-c-234 Spoon
V11-c-235 Spoon
V11-c-236 Spoon
V11-c-237 Spoon
V11-c-238 Spoon
V11-c-239 Spoon
V11-c-274 Spoon
V11-c-1914 Spoon
V11-c-114 Dish
V11-c-115 Dish
V11-c-117 Dish
V11-c-122 Dish (grease) V11-c-130 Basket
V11-c-131 Basket
V11-c-135 Basket
V11-c-136 Basket
V11-c-106ab Box
V11-c-107ab Chest
V11-c-109 Chest
V11-c-128 Chest
V11-c-292 Mat
V11-c-125 Net (dip) V11-c-295 Arrow
V11-c-296 Arrow
V11-c-297 Arrow
V11-c-298 Arrow
V11-c-299 Arrow
V11-c-300 Arrow
V11-c-301 Arrow
V11-c-302 Arrow
V11-c-303 Arrow
V11-c-304 Arrow
V11-c-305 Arrow
V11-c-306 Arrow
V11-c-307 Arrow
V11-c-308 Arrow
V11-c-309 Arrow
V11-c-310 Arrow
V11-c-100 Gambling equipment V11-c-101 Gambling equipment V11-c-102 Gambling equipment V11-c-139 Gambling equipment V11-c-141 Gambling equipment V11-c-142 Gambling equipment V11-c-143 Gambling equipment V11-c-144 Gambling equipment V11-c-145 Gambling equipment V11-c-146 Gambling equipment V11-c-148 Gambling equipment V11-c-195 Gambling equipment V11-c-275 Gambling equipment V11-c-167 Dagger
V11-c-180 Dagger
V11-c-161 Knife
V11-c-216 Knife
V11-c-129 Loom
V11-c-217 Spindle
V11-c-164 Gauge (lancet) V11-c-127 Peeler
V11-c-289 Hammer
V11-c-186 Adze
V11-c-246 Adze
V11-c-258 Adze
V11-c-261 Adze
V11-c-263 Adze
V11-c-293 Adze
V11-c-480 Mortar (stone) Appendix l-3 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be transferred from the Royal british columbia museum To the nisg̱a'a nation Artifact no.
Object
1723 Stone adze 1528 Amalite
9534 Amalite
9683 Amalite
10032 Amalite
1701 Arrow point 10057 Point
17371 Arrow shaft 17372 Arrow shaft 17373 Arrow shaft 17374 Point
17375 Arrow shaft 17376 Arrow shaft 1610 Paint bag 1682 Bag
9639 Bag
9911 Bag
1603 Down bag 1582 Basket
1532 Button blanket 9535 Chilkat blanket 1641 Tray
9623 Tray
9915 Bowl
1564a,b Box and lid 9542a,b Box and lid 1605 Wooden dance hat 9688 Bear ear headdress 1511 Carving
1519 Carving
1565 Charm
1566 Charm
1567 Charm
1568 Charm
1569 Charm
1579 Charm
1585 Charm
1587 Charm
1590 Charm
1597 Charm
9544 Charm
9545 a Charm (1)
9547/c, al, ae, aj, Ak, ag, p, i, j, ai, k, f, Z, t, u, r, v, ad, and y Charms (19)
9674 Charm
9676 Charm
9678 Charm
10034 Charm
10035 Charm
10037 Charm
10039 Charm
10041 Charm
10055 Charm
1636a, b Chest and lid 9682a, b Chest and lid 1719/ggtj 6:8 Jade chisel 1699/ggtj 6:1 Club
1634 a-d Cradle and accessories 1573 Crown/ all part of dr.'s regalia (1564-74) 1574 Crown/ all part of dr.'s regalia (1564-74) 2883 Crown
9642 Crown
9686 Crown
1625 Dagger
9538 Dagger
1553 Dance apron 1554 Dance apron 1571 Dance apron 1613 a-ax Gambling sticks and bag 1616 Gambling stick 1706/gt-y:6 Stone hammer 1708/ggtj 1:1 Stone hammer 1710/ggtj 1:2 Stone hammer 16402 Hook
1644 Ladle
1652 Ladle
1653 Ladle
1501 Mask
1503 Mask
1505 Mask
1507 a,b Mask and accessory 1509 a,b Mask and accessory 1514 Mask
1515 Mask
1516 Mask
1518 Mask
1523 Mask
1525 Mask
1527 Mask
9641 Mask
9695 Mask
9696 Mask
9715 Mask
9718 Mask
9912a,b Mask
1621 Stone mirror 1623 Stone mirror 1499 Screen
1611 Clapper
1617 Gauge (?)
1618 Raw material 1632 Mortuary model 1633 Weasel skin 1675 Paint brush 1676/ggtj 7:3 Paint
1703/ggtj-y:1 Stone maul 9539 Copper
9638 Case
9693 Wood figure 14838a,b Totem pole 1715/ggtj 7:4 Mortar
1717/ggtj 6:7 Mortar
1537a Head ring 1537b Neck ring 1538 Neck ring 1539 Neck ring 1540 Neck ring 1713/ggtj 6:5 Pestle
9664 Wood pipe 1558 Rattle
1560 Rattle
1570 Rattle/ all part of dr.'s regalia (1564-74) 1572 Rattle/ all part of dr.'s regalia (1564-74) 1584 a,b Pectin shell 9685 Rattle
1686 Scraper
1689 Scraper
9622 a,b Scratchers (2)
9619 Soul catcher 1690 Loom
1693 Spindle whorl 1696 Needle
1648 Spoon
1649 Spoon
1651 Spoon
1656 Spoon
1659 Spoon
1661 Spoon
1662 Spoon
1668 c, b, j, a, i, f Spoons (6)
9624 Spoon
9628 Spoon
9631 Spoon
9632 Spoon
9633 Spoon
9634 Spoon
9635 Spoon
9637 Spoon
10031 Spoon
10045 Spoon
1591/ggtj 7:1 Fasting stone 1593 Stone
9690 Tumpline
17186 a, b Snowshoes
1520 Mask
1521 Mask
1522 Mask
Appendix l-4 Nisg̱a'a artifacts to be held by the Royal british columbia museum Artifact no.
Object
1724/ghtgs:1 Stone adze 13286 Stone adze 1529 Amalite
14310 Amalite
14319 Frontlet
1702 Arrow point 1684 Bag
9640 Bag
12711 Down bag 12712 Down bag 4815 Bailer
13284 Bailer
1683 Basket
15199 Basket
1609 Chilkat blanket 14294 Chilkat blanket 14927 Blanket
15193 Button blanket 1640 Dish
1669 Tray
13093 Bowl
14713 a,b Bowl and lid 15088 Bowl
16177 Dish
16187 Dish
18164 Bowl
448 Box
1637a,b Box and lid 14333 Box
16109 Pendant
16891 Bracelet
16892 Bracelet
17487 Brooch
18166 Brooch
1531 Cap
10053 Helmet
1500 Carving
1512 Carving
1535 Carving
13329 Carving fragment 1549 Charm
1578 Charm
1583 a,b Charm
1586 Charm
1588 Charm
1589 Charm
1594 Charm
1595 Charm
1596 Charm
9545 b Charm
9546 Charm
9547 B, g. l. a, af, ah, m, N, o, h, d, q, s, x, Ab, w, aa, ac, and e Charms (19)
In du.26 9621 Charm (1)
9675 Charm
9677 Charm
9679 Charm
9680 Charm
9681 Charm
10036 Charm
10038 Charm
10040 Charm
10054 Charm
1635a, b Chest and lid 1720 Jade chisel 1608 Sash
14314a, b Gloves
14316a, b Chilkat leggings 14649 Shirt
14297 Copper club/ See in the wake of the war canoe (page 280) 15907 Cradle
1545 Crown
1546 Crown
9536 Crown
14312 Crown
14313 Crown
14315a,b Dagger and sheath 1555 Dance apron 14293 Dance apron/see pn 9637 14330 Dance apron 1612 a-au Gambling sticks and bag 1615 a-av Gambling sticks and bag 1707/ggtj 6:4 Stone hammer 1709/gt-y:7 Stone hammer 1711/gt-y:8 Stone hammer 14329 Hook
1643 Ladle
1645 Ladle
13328 Ladle
14320 Ladle
14321 Ladle
1502 Mask
1504 Mask
1506 Mask
1508 a,b,c Mask and accessories 1510 a,b Mask and accessories 1517 Mask
1524 Mask
1526 Mask
9694 Mask
9714 Mask
9717 Mask
9913 Mask
14306 Mask
14307 Mask
14308 Mask
14309 Mask
14318 Mask
15082 Mask
19036 Mask
1622 Stone mirror 10030 Stone mirror 14331 Slate mirror 1513 Dance prop 1563 Staff
1642 Skimmer
1685 Mat
1688 Chopping block 9540 a, b Carved hands 9543 Teeth (27)
11163 a, b Objects (2)
13283 Whistle
13704 Paddle
14291 Puppet
14299 Cane
14302 Labret
17803 Card
1716/ggtj 6:6 Mortar
2882/gftl-y:1 Stone mortar 2886 Head ring 2887 Head ring 2888 Head ring 2889 Neck ring 14932 Neck ring 1712/ggtj 2:1 Pestle
13285 Stone pestle 14301a, b Wood pipe 15331a, b Print
15332a, b Print
15333a, b Print
15380a, b Print
15518a, b Print
15755 Print
16020 Print
16137 Print
16289 Print
16673 Print
16674 Print
17249 Print
17250 Print
17251 Print
1305 Rattle
1559 Rattle
14295 Rattle
14296 Rattle
14311 Rattle
15848 Rattle
1387 Scraper
1687 Scraper
9692 Scratcher
9620 Soul catcher 1692a, b Whorl and spindle 1694 Spindle rest 1695 Needle
1697 Needle
9689 Loom
15908a, b Whorl and spindle 1647 Spoon
1650 Spoon
1657 Spoon
1658 Spoon
1660 Spoon
1668/d, g, k, e, h, l Spoon (6)
9625 Spoon
9626 Spoon
9627 Spoon
9629 Spoon
9630 Spoon
9636 Spoon
14305 Soapberry spoons (4) 14322 Spoon
14323 Spoon
14324 Spoon
14325 Spoon
14326 Spoon
14327 Spoon
14965 a-c Spoon (3)
1592/ggtj 7:2 Fasting stone 9691 Tumpline
14994 Tumpline
Appendix m Dispute resolution Appendix m-1 Collaborative negotiations Appendix m-2 Mediation
Appendix m-3 Technical advisory panel Appendix m-4 Neutral evaluation Appendix m-5 Elders advisory council Appendix m-6 Arbitration
Appendix m-1 Collaborative negotiations 1.
In this appendix:
A.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter; B.
"party" Means a participating party to collaborative negotiations under this Appendix; and C.
"section" Means a section in this appendix.
General
2.
Collaborative negotiations commence:
A. on the date of delivery of a written notice requiring the Commencement of collaborative negotiations; or B. in the case of negotiations in the circumstances described in Subparagraph 7 (c) of the chapter, on the date of the first Negotiation meeting.
Notice
3.
A notice under paragraph 15 of the chapter requiring the commencement of Collaborative negotiations will include the following:
A. the names of the parties directly engaged in the disagreement; B. a brief summary of the particulars of the disagreement; C. a description of the efforts made to date to resolve the Disagreement;
D. the names of the individuals involved in those efforts; and E. any other information that will help the parties.
Representation
4.
A party may attend collaborative negotiations with or without legal Counsel.
5.
At the commencement of the first negotiation meeting, each party will Advise the other parties of any limitations on the authority of its Representatives.
Negotiation process 6.
The parties will convene their first negotiation meeting in Collaborative negotiations, other than those described in subparagraph 7 (c) of the chapter, within 21 days after the commencement of the Collaborative negotiations.
7.
Before the first scheduled negotiation meeting, the parties will discuss And attempt to reach agreement on any procedural issues that will Facilitate the collaborative negotiations, including the requirements of Paragraph 26 of the chapter.
8.
For purposes of subparagraph 26 (a) of the chapter, "timely Disclosure" means disclosure made within 15 days after a request for Disclosure by a party.
9.
The parties will make a serious attempt to resolve the disagreement by A. identifying underlying interests; B. isolating points of agreement and disagreement; C. exploring alternative solutions; D. considering compromises or accommodations; and E. taking any other measures that will assist in resolution of the Disagreement.
10.
No transcript or recording will be kept of collaborative negotiations, But this does not prevent a person from keeping notes of the Negotiations.
Confidentiality
11.
In order to assist in the resolution of a disagreement, collaborative Negotiations will not be open to the public.
12.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:
A. all oral and written information disclosed in the collaborative Negotiations; and B. the fact that this information has been disclosed.
13.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding, Whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the Collaborative negotiations, any oral or written information disclosed in Or arising from the collaborative negotiations, including:
A. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the Collaborative negotiations that are not otherwise produced or producible In that proceeding; B. any views expressed, or suggestions made, by any party in respect of A possible settlement of the disagreement; C. any admissions made by any party in the course of the collaborative Negotiations, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; and D. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept A proposal for settlement.
14.
Sections 12 and 13 do not apply:
A. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an Agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the Collaborative negotiation; B. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of The public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for Confidentiality; or C. if the oral or written information referred to in these sections is In the public forum.
Right to withdraw 15.
A party may withdraw from collaborative negotiations at any time.
Termination of collaborative negotiations 16.
Collaborative negotiations are terminated when any of the following Occurs:
A. the expiration of:
I. 30 days, or Ii. in the case of collaborative negotiations in the circumstances Described in subparagraph 7 (c) of the chapter, 120 days After the first scheduled negotiation meeting, or any longer period Agreed to by the parties in writing; B. a party directly engaged in the disagreement withdraws from the Collaborative negotiations under section 15; C. the parties agree in writing to terminate the collaborative Negotiations; or D. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written Agreement resolving the disagreement.
Appendix m-2 Mediation
Definitions
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter of the agreement; B.
"party" Means a participating party to a mediation under this appendix; and C.
"section" Means a section in this appendix.
General
2.
A mediation commences on the date the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement have agreed in writing to use mediation, or are deemed to Have agreed to use mediation, under paragraph 24 of the chapter.
Appointment of mediator 3.
A mediation will be conducted by one mediator jointly appointed by the Parties.
4.
A mediator will be:
A. an experienced and skilled mediator, preferably with unique qualities Or specialized knowledge that would be of assistance in the Circumstances of the disagreement; and B. independent and impartial.
5.
If the parties fail to agree on a mediator within 15 days after Commencement of a mediation, the appointment will be made by the neutral Appointing authority on the written request of a party that is copied to The other parties.
6.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a mediator may Employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support Services.
Requirement to withdraw 7.
At any time a party may give the mediator and the other parties a Written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the mediator to Withdraw from the mediation on the grounds that the party has Justifiable doubts as to the mediator's independence or impartiality.
8.
On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the mediator must Immediately withdraw from the mediation.
9.
A person who is a nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a nisg̱a'a citizen, must Not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the grounds of That citizenship or relationship.
End of appointment 10.
A mediator's appointment terminates if:
A. the mediator is required to withdraw under section 8; B. the mediator withdraws from office for any reason; or C. the parties agree to the termination.
11.
If a mediator's appointment terminates, a replacement mediator will be Appointed using the procedure in sections 3 to 5 and the required time Period commences from the date of termination of the appointment.
Representation
12.
A party may attend a mediation with or without legal counsel.
13.
If a mediator is a lawyer, the mediator must not act as legal counsel For any party.
14.
At the commencement of the first meeting of a mediation, each party will Advise the mediator and the other parties of any limitations on the Authority of its representatives.
Conduct of mediation 15.
The parties will:
A. make a serious attempt to resolve the disagreement by:
I. identifying underlying interests, Ii. isolating points of agreement and disagreement, Iii. exploring alternative solutions, and Iv. considering compromises or accommodations; and B. cooperate fully with the mediator and give prompt attention to, and Respond to, all communications from the mediator.
16.
A mediator may conduct a mediation in any manner the mediator considers Necessary and appropriate to assist the parties to resolve the Disagreement in a fair, efficient, and cost-effective manner.
17.
Within seven days of appointment of a mediator, each party will deliver A brief written summary to the mediator of the relevant facts, the Issues in the disagreement, and its viewpoint in respect of them and the Mediator will deliver copies of the summaries to each party at the end Of the seven day period.
18.
A mediator may conduct a mediation in joint meetings or private caucus Convened at locations the mediator designates after consulting the Parties.
19.
Disclosures made by any party to a mediator in private caucus must not Be disclosed by the mediator to any other party without the consent of The disclosing party.
20.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a mediation meeting but this Does not prevent a person from keeping notes of the negotiations.
Confidentiality
21.
In order to assist in the resolution of a disagreement, a mediation will Not be open to the public.
22.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:
A. all oral and written information disclosed in the mediation; and B. the fact that this information has been disclosed.
23.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding, Whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the Mediation, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from The mediation, including:
A. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the Mediation that are not otherwise produced or producible in that Proceeding;
B. any views expressed, or suggestions, or proposals made in respect of A possible settlement of the disagreement; C. any admissions made by any party in the course of the mediation, Unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; D. any recommendations for settlement made by the mediator; and E. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept A proposal or recommendation for settlement.
24.
Sections 22 and 23 do not apply:
A. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an Agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of a Mediation;
B. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of Public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for Confidentiality; or C. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is In the public forum.
25.
A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is not Compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and Written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a Result of the mediation, and all parties will oppose any effort to have That person or that information subpoenaed.
26.
A mediator, or anyone retained or employed by the mediator, is Disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party To the mediation.
Referral of issues to other processes 27.
During a mediation the parties may agree to refer particular issues in The disagreement to independent fact-finders, expert panels or other Processes for opinions or findings that may assist them in the Resolution of the disagreement, and in that event, the parties must Specify:
A. the terms of reference for the process; B. the time within which the process must be concluded; and C. how the costs of the process are to be allocated to the parties.
28.
The time specified for concluding a mediation will be extended for 15 Days following receipt of the findings or opinions rendered in a process Described under section 27.
Right to withdraw 29.
A party may withdraw from a mediation at any time by giving written Notice of its intent to the mediator.
30.
Before a withdrawal is effective, the withdrawing party will:
A. speak with the mediator; B. disclose its reasons for withdrawing; and C. give the mediator the opportunity to discuss the consequences of Withdrawal.
Termination of mediation 31.
A mediation is terminated when any of the following occurs:
A. subject to section 28, the expiration of 30 days after the Appointment of the mediator, or any longer period agreed by the parties In writing; B. the parties have agreed in writing to terminate the mediation or not To appoint a replacement mediator under section 11; C. a party directly engaged in the disagreement withdraws from the Mediation under section 29; or D. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written Agreement resolving the disagreement.
Mediator recommendation 32.
If a mediation is terminated without the parties reaching agreement, the Parties may agree to request the mediator to give a written non-binding Recommendation for settlement, but the mediator may decline the request Without reasons.
33.
Within 15 days after delivery of a mediator's recommendation under Section 32, the parties will meet with the mediator to attempt to Resolve the disagreement.
Costs
34.
A party withdrawing from a mediation under section 29 is not responsible For any costs of the mediation that are incurred after the date that Party's withdrawal takes effect.
Appendix m-3 Technical advisory panel Definitions
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter; B.
"member" Means a member of the panel; C.
"panel" Means a technical advisory panel appointed under this appendix; D.
"party" Means a participating party to a reference under this appendix; E.
"reference" Means a reference of a disagreement to the panel; and F.
"section" Means a section in this appendix.
General
2.
A question of law may not be referred to a panel.
3.
A reference commences on the date the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement have agreed in writing to use a technical advisory panel Under paragraph 24 of the chapter.
Appointment of panel members 4.
A panel will have three members unless the parties agree on a panel of Five members.
5.
A member will be skilled and knowledgeable in the technical or Scientific subject matter or issues of the disagreement.
6.
If there are two parties and the panel will have:
A. three members, each party will appoint one member and the two Appointed members will jointly appoint the third member; or B. five members, each party will appoint two members and the four Appointed members will jointly appoint the fifth member.
7.
If there are three parties and the panel will have:
A. three members, each party will appoint one member; or B. five members, each party will appoint one member and the three Appointed members will jointly appoint the fourth and fifth members.
8.
In the appointment procedures under sections 6 and 7, if:
A. a party fails to appoint the required number of members within 30 Days after commencement of the reference; or B. the appointing members fail to appoint the required number of Additional members within 15 days after the last appointing member was Appointed
The required appointments will be made by the neutral appointing Authority on the written request of a party that is copied to the other Parties.
End of appointment 9.
The appointment of a member who is jointly appointed by the parties, by The appointing members, or by the neutral appointing authority, Terminates if:
A. the member withdraws from office for any reason; or B. the parties agree to the termination.
10.
The appointment of a member appointed by one party, or by the neutral Appointing authority in place of the party, terminates if:
A. the member withdraws from office for any reason; or B. the appointing party terminates the appointment.
11.
If the appointment of a member jointly appointed by the parties, by the Appointing members, or by the neutral appointing authority in place of The parties or members, terminates, a replacement member will be Appointed under section 6 or 7, as applicable, within the required time Commencing from the termination of the former member's appointment.
12.
Subject to section 13, if the appointment of a member appointed by one Party or by the neutral appointing authority in place of the party Terminates, a replacement member will be appointed under section 6 or 7, As applicable, within the required time commencing from the termination Of the former member's appointment.
13.
A party may elect not to replace a member it had appointed but the party May not withdraw from the reference except as permitted under sections 31 to 35.
Terms of reference 14.
Not more than 15 days after the appointment of the last member of a Panel, the parties must provide the panel with written terms of Reference that set out at least the following:
A. the parties to the disagreement; B. the subject matter or issues of the disagreement; C. the kind of assistance that the parties request from the panel, Including giving advice, making determinations, finding facts, Conducting, evaluating and reporting on studies and making Recommendations;
D. the time period within which the parties request the assistance to be Provided;
E. the time periods or stages of the reference at the conclusion of Which the panel must provide the parties with written interim reports on The panel's progress on the referral and on expenditures under the Budget described in section 16 as they relate to that progress; F. the time within which the panel must provide the parties with the Budget described in section 16; and G. any limitations on the application of sections 36 to 42 to the Reference.
15.
The parties may discuss the proposed terms of reference with the panel Before they are finally settled.
16.
Within the time referred to in section 14 (f), the panel will provide The parties with a budget for the costs of conducting the reference, Including:
A. fees to be paid to the members who have been jointly appointed by the Parties, or by appointing members; B. costs of required travel, food and accommodation of members who have Been jointly appointed by the parties, or by appointing members; C. costs of any required administrative assistance; and D. costs of any studies.
17.
The parties will consider the budget submitted by the panel and approve That budget with any amendments agreed by the parties before the panel Undertakes any activities under the reference.
18.
The parties are not responsible for any costs incurred by the panel that Are in excess of those approved under section 17, and the panel is not Authorized to incur any costs beyond that amount without obtaining prior Written approval from all the parties.
19.
The parties may amend the written terms of reference or the budget from Time to time as they consider necessary, or on recommendation of the Panel.
Conduct of reference to panel 20.
The parties will:
A. cooperate fully with the panel; B. comply with any requests made by the panel as permitted or required Under this appendix; and C. give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the Panel.
21.
Subject to any limitations or requirements in the terms of reference Given and the limits of the budget approved under sections 17 to 19, the Panel may conduct its reference using any procedure it considers Necessary or appropriate, including holding a hearing.
22.
If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently as Possible and in the manner the panel specifies, after consultation with The parties.
23.
If a hearing is held, the panel must give the parties reasonable written Notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any event, be not less Than seven days.
24.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does not Prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the Hearing.
25.
The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a hearing before the panel.
26.
The panel will give the parties the interim and final written reports Specified in its terms of reference within the required times.
27.
A report of the panel is not binding on the parties.
Panel business 28.
A panel will appoint one of its members to act as chair of the panel.
29.
The chair of a panel is responsible for all communications between the Panel, the parties and any other person to whom the panel wishes to Communicate, but this does not preclude a member from communicating Informally with a party.
30.
A panel will make every reasonable effort to conduct its business, and Fulfill its obligations under its terms of reference, by consensus, but:
A. if consensus is not possible, by actions approved by a majority of Its members; or B. if a majority is not possible, by actions approved by the chair of The panel.
Right to withdraw 31.
If one of two parties to a reference, or two of three parties to a Reference, are not satisfied with the progress of the reference:
A. after receipt of an interim report; or B. as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report within The required time The dissatisfied party or parties, as the case may be, may give written Notice to the panel and the other party that the party or parties are Withdrawing from the reference and that the reference is terminated.
32.
If one of three parties to a reference is not satisfied with the Progress of the reference:
A. after receipt of an interim report; or B. as a result of the panel's failure to submit an interim report within The required time The dissatisfied party may give written notice to the panel and the Other parties that it is withdrawing from the reference.
33.
Two parties who receive a notice under section 32 will advise the panel In writing that they have agreed:
A. to terminate the reference; or B. to continue the reference.
34.
If no party gives a notice under sections 31 or 32 within 10 days after:
A. receipt of an interim report; or B. the time required to submit an interim report All parties will be deemed to be satisfied with the progress of the Reference until submission of the next required interim report.
35.
No party may withdraw from a reference except as permitted under Sections 31 to 34.
Confidentiality
36.
The parties may, by agreement recorded in the terms of reference of the Panel in section 14, limit the application of all or any part of Sections 37 to 42 in a reference.
37.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a reference Will not be open to the public.
38.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:
A. all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and B. the fact that this information has been disclosed.
39.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding, Whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the Reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from The reference, including:
A. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the Reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that Proceeding;
B. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible Settlement of the disagreement; C. any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference, Unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; D. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept A proposal or recommendation for settlement; and E. any reports of the panel.
40.
Sections 38 and 39 do not apply:
A. in any proceeding for the enforcement or setting aside of an Agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the Reference;
B. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of The public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for Confidentiality; or C. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is In the public forum.
41.
A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is not Compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral or written Information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a result of the Reference, and all parties will oppose any effort to have that person or That information subpoenaed.
42.
A member, or anyone retained or employed by the member, is disqualified As a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party To the reference.
Attempt to resolve after report 43.
Within 21 days after receipt of the final written report of a panel, the Parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the disagreement taking Into account the report of the panel or any other considerations.
44.
If the parties and the panel agree, the members of a panel may attend The meeting under section 43, and provide any necessary assistance to The parties.
Termination of reference to panel 45.
A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:
A. the reference has been terminated as permitted under section 31 or 33; B. the expiration of 30 days after receipt of the final report of the Panel, or any longer period agreed by the parties in writing; or C. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written Agreement resolving the disagreement.
Costs
46.
A party is not responsible for sharing any costs of the reference that Were incurred after the date that party notified the other parties, Under section 32, of its withdrawal from the reference.
Appendix m-4 Neutral evaluation Definition
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter; B.
"party" Means a participating party to a neutral evaluation under this appendix; And
C.
"section" Means a section in this appendix.
General
2.
A neutral evaluation commences on the date that the parties directly Engaged in the disagreement have agreed in writing to use neutral Evaluation under paragraph 24 of the chapter.
Appointment of neutral evaluator 3.
A neutral evaluation will be conducted by one person jointly appointed By the parties.
4.
A neutral evaluator will be:
A. experienced or skilled in the subject matter or issues of the Disagreement; and B. independent and impartial.
5.
If the parties fail to agree on a neutral evaluator within 21 days after Commencement of a neutral evaluation, the appointment will be made by The neutral appointing authority on the written request of a party that Is copied to the other parties.
6.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, a neutral evaluator May employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support Services.
Requirement to withdraw 7.
At any time a party may give a neutral evaluator and the other parties a Written notice, with or without reasons, requiring the neutral evaluator To withdraw from the neutral evaluation on the grounds that the party Has justifiable doubts as to the neutral evaluator's independence or Impartiality.
8.
On receipt of a written notice under section 7, the neutral evaluator Must immediately withdraw from the neutral evaluation.
9.
A person who is a nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a nisg̱a'a citizen, must Not be required to withdraw under section 7 solely on the grounds of That citizenship or relationship.
End of appointment 10.
A neutral evaluator's appointment terminates if:
A. the neutral evaluator is required to withdraw under section 8; B. the neutral evaluator withdraws from office for any reason; or C. the parties agree to the termination.
11.
Unless the parties agree otherwise, if a neutral evaluator's appointment Terminates, a replacement will be appointed under section 5 within the Required time commencing from the date of the termination of the Appointment.
Communications
12.
Except with respect to administrative details or a meeting under section 31, the parties will not communicate with the neutral evaluator:
A. orally except in the presence of all parties; or B. in writing without immediately sending a copy of that communication To all parties.
13.
Section 12 also applies to any communication by a neutral evaluator to The parties.
Conduct of neutral evaluation 14.
The parties will:
A. cooperate fully with the neutral evaluator; B. comply with any requests made by the neutral evaluator as permitted Or required under this appendix; and C. give prompt attention to and respond to all communications from the Neutral evaluator.
15.
A neutral evaluation will be conducted only on the basis of documents Submitted by the parties under section 20 unless the parties agree to, Or the neutral evaluator requires, additional submissions or other forms Of evidence.
16.
If a hearing is held, the hearing must be conducted as efficiently as Possible and in the manner the neutral evaluator specifies, after Consultation with the parties.
17.
If a hearing is held, the panel must give the parties reasonable written Notice of the hearing date, which notice must, in any event, be not less Than seven days.
18.
No transcript or recording will be kept of a hearing, but this does not Prevent a person attending the hearing from keeping notes of the Hearing.
19.
The legal rules of evidence do not apply to a neutral evaluation.
20.
Within 15 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, each party Must deliver to the other parties and to the neutral evaluator a written Submission respecting the disagreement, including facts upon which the Parties agree or disagree, and copies of any documents, affidavits and Exhibits on which the party relies.
21.
Within 21 days after the appointment of a neutral evaluator, a party may Submit a reply to the submission of any other party and, in that event, Will provide copies of the reply to the party and the neutral evaluator.
Confidentiality
22.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a neutral Evaluation will not be open to the public.
23.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:
A. all oral and written information disclosed in the neutral evaluation; And
B. the fact that this information has been disclosed.
24.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding, Whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the Neutral evaluation, any oral or written information disclosed in or Arising from the neutral evaluation, including:
A. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the neutral Evaluation which are not otherwise produced or producible in that Proceeding;
B. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible Settlement of the disagreement; C. any admissions made by any party in the course of the neutral Evaluation, unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; D. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept A proposal for settlement; and E. subject to section 28, the opinion of the neutral evaluator.
25.
Sections 23 and 24 do not apply:
A. in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an Agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of a neutral Evaluation;
B. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of The public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for Confidentiality; or C. if the oral or written information is in the public forum.
26.
A neutral evaluator, or anyone retained or employed by the neutral Evaluator, is not compellable in any proceedings to give evidence about Any oral and written information acquired or opinion formed by that Person as a result of a neutral evaluation under this appendix, and all Parties will oppose any effort to have that person or that information Subpoenaed.
27.
A neutral evaluator and anyone retained or employed by the neutral Evaluator is disqualified as a consultant or expert in any proceeding Relating to the disagreement, including any proceeding that involves Persons not a party to the neutral evaluation.
28.
Despite sections 23 to 26, after an arbitral tribunal has delivered its Final arbitral award, or a court has referred its decision, in respect Of a disagreement, a party, for the purpose only of making a submission On the allocation of costs of that arbitral or judicial proceeding, may Give to the arbitral tribunal or the court a copy of:
A. the neutral evaluator's opinion respecting that agreement; or B. the neutral evaluator's notice of termination under section 7.
Non-binding opinion 29.
Within 21 days after the later of:
A. delivery of the last submission required or permitted in a neutral Evaluation under this appendix; or B. completion of a hearing, The neutral evaluator will deliver to the parties a written opinion with Reasons in respect of the probable disposition of the disagreement Should it be submitted to arbitral or judicial proceedings, as the case May be, under the chapter.
30.
An opinion under section 29 is not binding on the parties.
Attempt to resolve after opinion 31.
Within 21 days after delivery of an opinion under section 29, the Parties will meet and make an effort to resolve the disagreement, taking Into account the opinion of the neutral evaluator or any other Considerations.
32.
If the parties and the neutral evaluator agree, the neutral evaluator May attend a meeting under section 31, and provide any necessary Assistance to the parties.
Failure to comply 33.
If a party fails to participate in the neutral evaluation as Contemplated in sections 14 to 21, the neutral evaluator may:
A. provide an opinion based solely upon the information and submissions They have obtained; or B. give a written notice of termination of the neutral evaluation And, in either event, the neutral evaluator must record that party's Failure.
Termination of neutral evaluation 34.
A neutral evaluation is terminated when any of the following occurs:
A. the neutral evaluator gives a notice of termination under section 33 (b); B. the expiration of 30 days after receipt of an opinion under section 29 or 33, as the case may be, or any longer period agreed by the Parties;
C. all the parties directly engaged in the disagreement agree in writing To terminate evaluation; or D. all the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written Agreement resolving the disagreement.
Costs
35.
A party that has failed to participate in a neutral evaluation as Contemplated in sections 14 to 21 is responsible for its share of the Costs of the neutral evaluation, despite its failure to participate.
Appendix m-5 Elders advisory council Definition
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter; B.
"council" Means the elders advisory council appointed under this appendix; C.
"elder" Means a member of a council; D.
"party" Means a participating party to the reference under this appendix; E.
"reference" Means a reference of a disagreement to the council; and F.
"section" Means a section in this appendix.
General
2.
A reference commences on the date the parties directly engaged in the Disagreement have agreed in writing to use an elders advisory council Under paragraph 24 of the chapter.
Appointment of elders 3.
Within 30 days after a reference has commenced, each party will appoint At least one, but not more than three, elders to the council.
4.
Preferably, the elders will be individuals who:
A. are recognized in their respective communities as wise, tolerant, Personable and articulate, and who:
I. are often sought out for counsel or advice, or Ii. have a record of distinguished public service; and B. are available to devote the time and energy as required to provide The assistance described in this appendix.
End of appointment 5.
Unless an elder:
A. has requested to be relieved of their appointment due to a conflict Of interest or otherwise; or B. is not able to fulfill their duties, due to incapacity or otherwise The elder's appointment to the council may not be terminated until Termination of the reference in which the elder is involved.
6.
If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances described In section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was the only elder of the council Appointed by a party to the reference, that party must replace the elder Within seven days.
7.
If an elder's appointment is terminated in the circumstances described In section 5 (a) or (b) and that elder was not the only elder of the Council appointed by a party to the reference, that party may replace The elder but the replacement must be made within seven days.
Conduct of reference 8.
In a reference, the parties will cooperate fully with the council, and Give prompt attention to, and respond, to all communications from the Council.
9.
Notwithstanding section 8, a party is not required to disclose to the Council or provide it with any information that the party would not be Required to disclose in any arbitral or judicial proceedings in respect Of the disagreement.
10.
The council is expected to conduct itself informally in order that the Parties may take full advantage of the council's good offices to resolve The disagreement.
11.
The council may establish its own process to suit the particular Circumstances of a reference including meeting with the parties together Or separately, conducting informal interviews or inquiries and Facilitating settlement negotiations.
12.
The council will give the parties its final advice or recommendations on A disagreement referred to it within 120 days after the commencement of The reference.
13.
The council may, at its option, provide its advice to the parties:
A. orally on the same occasion; or B. in writing.
14.
The council may, by unanimous decision, extend the time for giving Advice or recommendations under section 12, on one occasion only, to a Maximum of 60 additional days.
15.
The advice or recommendations of the council are not binding on the Parties.
16.
Subject to any limitations agreed to by the parties, the council may Employ reasonable and necessary administrative or other support Services.
Right to withdraw 17.
A party may not withdraw from a reference until its conclusion unless All the parties agree in writing.
Confidentiality
18.
In order to assist in the resolution of the disagreement, a reference Will not be open to the public.
19.
The parties, and all persons, will keep confidential:
A. all oral and written information disclosed in the reference; and B. the fact that this information has been disclosed.
20.
The parties will not rely on or introduce as evidence in any proceeding, Whether or not that proceeding relates to the subject matter of the Reference, any oral or written information disclosed in or arising from The reference, including:
A. any documents of other parties produced in the course of the Reference that are not otherwise produced or producible in that Proceeding;
B. any views expressed, or suggestions made, in respect of a possible Settlement of the disagreement; C. any admissions made by any party in the course of the reference, Unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; D. any advice or recommendations made by an elder or the council; and E. the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make or accept Any advice or recommendation for settlement.
21.
Sections 19 and 20 do not apply:
A. in any proceedings for the enforcement or setting aside of an Agreement resolving the disagreement that was the subject of the Reference;
B. if the adjudicator in any proceeding determines that the interests of The public or the administration of justice outweigh the need for Confidentiality; or C. if the oral or written information referred to in those sections is In the public forum.
22.
An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is not Compellable in any proceeding to give evidence about any oral and Written information acquired or opinion formed by that person as a Result of the reference and all parties will oppose any effort to have That person or that information subpoenaed.
23.
An elder, or anyone retained or employed by the council, is disqualified As a consultant or expert in any proceeding relating to the Disagreement, including any proceeding that involves persons not a party To the reference.
Decision-making 24.
The council must make its best efforts to reach consensus among the Elders before taking any action or giving any advice under the Reference.
25.
The council may not take any action under section 12 unless at least one Elder appointed by each party expressly agrees with the action taken.
Termination of reference 26.
A reference is terminated when any of the following occurs:
A. the council gives the parties its advice under section 12; B. the expiration of the applicable time period in section 12 or 14; or C. the parties directly engaged in the disagreement sign a written Agreement resolving the disagreement.
Appendix m-6 Arbitration
Definitions
1.
In this appendix:
A.
"applicant" Means:
I. in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 28 of the chapter, the Party that delivered the notice of arbitration, and Ii. in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 29 of the chapter, the Party that the parties have agreed will be the applicant in the Agreement to arbitrate; B.
"arbitral award" Means any decision of the arbitral tribunal on the substance of the Disagreement submitted to it, and includes:
I. an interim arbitral award, including an interim award made for the Preservation of property, and Ii. an award of interest or costs; C.
"arbitral tribunal" Means a single arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators appointed under this Appendix;
D.
"arbitration agreement" Includes
I. the requirement to refer to arbitration disagreements described in Paragraph 28 of the chapter; and Ii. an agreement to arbitrate a disagreement as described in paragraph 29 of the chapter; E.
"chapter" Means the dispute resolution chapter of the agreement; F.
"party" Means a participating party to arbitration under this appendix; G.
"respondent" Means a party other than the applicant; H.
"section" Means a section of this appendix; I.
"supreme court" Means the supreme court of british columbia.
2.
A reference in this appendix, other than in section 87 or 116 (a), To a claim, applies to a counterclaim, and a reference in this appendix To a defence, applies to a defence to a counterclaim.
3.
Despite paragraph 4 of the chapter, the parties may not vary section 53 Or 97.
Communications
4.
Except in respect of administrative details, the parties will not Communicate with the arbitral tribunal:
A. orally, except in the presence of all other parties; or B. in writing, without immediately sending a copy of that communication To all other parties.
5.
Section 4 also applies to any communication by the arbitral tribunal to The parties.
Waiver of right to object 6.
A party that knows that:
A. any provision of this appendix; or B. any requirement under the agreement or arbitration agreement Has not been complied with, and yet proceeds with the arbitration Without stating its objection to noncompliance without undue delay or, If a time limit is provided for stating that objection, within that Period of time, will be deemed to have waived its right to object.
7.
In section 6 (a) "any provision of this appendix" Means any provision of this appendix in respect of which the parties may Otherwise agree.
Extent of judicial intervention 8.
In matters governed by this appendix:
A. no court shall intervene except as provided in this appendix; and B. no arbitral proceedings of an arbitral tribunal, or an order, ruling Or arbitral award made by an arbitral tribunal shall be questioned, Reviewed or restrained by a proceeding under any legislation or other Law that permits judicial review except to the extent provided in this Appendix.
Construction of appendix 9.
In construing a provision of this appendix, a court or arbitral tribunal May refer to the documents of the united nations commission on International trade law and its working group respecting the preparation Of the uncitral model arbitration law and must give those documents the Weight that is appropriate in the circumstances.
Stay of legal proceedings 10.
If a party commences legal proceedings in a court against another party In respect of a matter required or agreed to be submitted to Arbitration, a party to the legal proceedings may, before or after Entering an appearance, and before delivery of any pleadings or taking Any other step in the proceedings, apply to that court to stay the Proceedings.
11.
In an application under section 10, the court must make an order staying The legal proceedings unless it determines that:
A. the arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable Of being performed; or B. the legal proceedings are permitted under the chapter.
12.
An arbitration may be commenced or continued, and an arbitral award Made, even if an application has been brought under section 10, and the Issue is pending before the court.
Interim measures by court 13.
It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a party to Request from a court, before or during arbitral proceedings, an interim Measure of protection as provided in paragraph 14 of the chapter, and For a court to grant that measure.
Commencement of arbitral proceedings 14.
The arbitral proceedings in respect of a disagreement:
A. required to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 28 of the chapter, Commences on delivery of the notice of arbitration to the parties; or B. agreed to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 29 of the chapter, Commences on the date of the arbitration agreement.
Notice of arbitration 15.
A notice of arbitration under paragraph 28 of the chapter must be in Writing and contain the following information:
A. a statement of the subject matter or issues of the disagreement; B. a requirement that the disagreement be referred to arbitration; C. the remedy sought; D. the suggested number of arbitrators; and E. any preferred qualifications of the arbitrators.
16.
A notice of arbitration under section 15 may contain the names of any Proposed arbitrators, including the information specified in section 17.
Arbitrators
17.
In an arbitration:
A. required to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 28 of the chapter, There will be three arbitrators; and B. agreed to be arbitrated as set out in paragraph 29 of the chapter, There will be one arbitrator.
18.
A person eligible for appointment as:
A. a single arbitrator or as chair of an arbitral tribunal will be an Experienced arbitrator or arbitration counsel or have had training in Arbitral procedure; and B. as a single arbitrator or member of an arbitral panel:
I. will be independent and impartial, and Ii. preferably, will have knowledge of, or experience in, the subject Matter or issues of the disagreement.
Appointment of arbitrators 19.
A party proposing the name of an arbitrator to another party under Section 20 will also submit a copy of that person's resume and the Statement that person is required to make under section 26.
20.
In an arbitration with a single arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree On the arbitrator within 30 days after the commencement of the Arbitration, the appointment will be made by the neutral appointing Authority, on the written request of a party that is copied to the other Parties.
21.
In an arbitration with three arbitrators and two parties, each party Will appoint one arbitrator, and the two appointed arbitrators will Appoint the third arbitrator.
22.
In the appointment procedure under section 21, if:
A. a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt Of a request to do so from the other party; or B. the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator Within 30 days after the last of them was appointed The appointment will be made by the neutral appointing authority, on the Written request of a party that is copied to the other parties.
23.
In an arbitration with three arbitrators and three parties, the three Parties will jointly appoint the three arbitrators.
24.
In the arbitration procedure under section 23, if the three parties fail To agree on the three arbitrators within 60 days after the commencement Of the arbitration, the appointments will be made by the neutral Appointing authority, on the written request of a party copied to the Other parties.
25.
The neutral appointing authority, in appointing an arbitrator, must have Due regard to:
A. any qualifications required of the arbitrator as set out in section 18 or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties; and B. other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an Independent and impartial arbitrator.
Grounds for challenge 26.
When a person is approached in connection with possible appointment as An arbitrator, that person must provide a written statement:
A. disclosing any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable Doubts as to their independence or impartiality; or B. advising that the person is not aware of any circumstances of that Nature and committing to disclose them if they arise or become known at A later date.
27.
An arbitrator, from the time of appointment and throughout the arbitral Proceedings, must, without delay, disclose to the parties any Circumstances referred to in section 26 unless the parties have already Been informed of them.
28.
An arbitrator may be challenged only if:
A. circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the Arbitrator's independence or impartiality; or B. the arbitrator does not possess the qualifications set out in this Appendix or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties.
29.
A party may only challenge an arbitrator appointed by that party, or in Whose appointment that party has participated, for reasons of which that Party becomes aware after the appointment has been made.
30.
A person who is a nisg̱a'a citizen, or related to a nisg̱a'a citizen, may Not be challenged under section 28 solely on the grounds of that Citizenship or relationship.
Challenge procedure 31.
A party who intends to challenge an arbitrator will send to the arbitral Tribunal a written statement of the reasons for the challenge within 15 Days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal, Or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in section 28.
32.
Unless the arbitrator challenged under section 31 withdraws from office, Or the other parties agree to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal must Decide on the challenge.
33.
If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under The procedure under section 31 is not successful, the challenging party, Within 30 days after having received notice of the decision rejecting The challenge, may request the neutral appointing authority to decide on The challenge.
34.
The decision of the neutral appointing authority under section 33 is Final and is not subject to appeal.
35.
While a request under section 33 is pending, the arbitral tribunal, Including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitral Proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:
A. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the neutral Appointing authority is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or B. the parties agree otherwise.
Failure or impossibility to act 36.
The mandate of an arbitrator terminates if the arbitrator becomes unable At law, or as a practical matter, to perform the arbitrator's functions, Or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay.
37.
If a controversy remains concerning any of the grounds referred to in Section 36, a party may request the neutral appointing authority to Decide on the termination of the mandate.
Termination of mandate and substitution of arbitrator 38.
In addition to the circumstances referred to under sections 31 to 33, And 36, the mandate of an arbitrator terminates:
A. if the arbitrator withdraws from office for any reason; or B. by, or pursuant to, agreement of the parties.
39.
If the mandate of an arbitrator terminates, a replacement arbitrator Must be appointed under sections 19 to 25, as applicable.
40.
If a single or chairing arbitrator is replaced, any hearings previously Held must be repeated.
41.
If an arbitrator other than a single or chairing arbitrator is replaced, Any hearings previously held may be repeated at the discretion of the Arbitral tribunal.
42.
An order or ruling of the arbitral tribunal made before the replacement Of an arbitrator under section 39 is not invalid solely because there Has been a change in the composition of the tribunal.
Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction 43.
An arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction.
44.
A plea that an arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction must be Raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; but a Party is not precluded from raising that plea by the fact that the party Has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator.
45.
A plea that an arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority Must be made as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its Authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.
46.
An arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in section 44 or 45, admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified.
47.
An arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in section 44 or 45 Either as a preliminary question or in the arbitral award.
48.
If an arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has Jurisdiction, any party, within 15 days after having received notice of That ruling, may request the supreme court to decide the matter.
49.
A decision of the supreme court under section 48 is final and is not Subject to appeal.
50.
While a request under section 48 is pending, an arbitral tribunal may Continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:
A. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the decision of the supreme Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or B. the parties agree otherwise.
Interim measures ordered by arbitral tribunal 51.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at The request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of Protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of The subject matter of the disagreement.
52.
The arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate Security in connection with a measure ordered under section 51.
Equal treatment of parties 53.
The parties must be treated with equality and each party must be given a Full opportunity to present its case.
Determination of rules of procedure 54.
Subject to this appendix, the parties may agree on the procedure to be Followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings.
55.
Failing any agreement under section 54, the arbitral tribunal, subject To this appendix, may conduct the arbitration in the manner it considers Appropriate.
56.
The arbitral tribunal is not required to apply the legal rules of Evidence, and may determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality And weight of any evidence.
57.
The arbitral tribunal must make all reasonable efforts to conduct the Arbitral proceedings in the most efficient, expeditious and cost Effective manner as is appropriate in all the circumstances of the case.
58.
The arbitral tribunal may extend or abridge a period of time:
A. set in this appendix, except the period specified in section 106; or B. established by the tribunal.
Pre-hearing meeting 59.
Within 10 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the tribunal Must convene a pre-hearing meeting of the parties to reach agreement and To make any necessary orders on:
A. any procedural issues arising under this appendix; B. the procedure to be followed in the arbitration; C. the time periods for taking steps in the arbitration; D. the scheduling of hearings or meetings, if any; E. any preliminary applications or objections; and F. any other matter which will assist the arbitration to proceed in an Efficient and expeditious manner.
60.
The arbitral tribunal must prepare and distribute promptly to the Parties a written record of all the business transacted, and decisions And orders made, at the pre-hearing meeting.
61.
The pre-hearing meeting may be conducted by conference call.
Place of arbitration 62.
The arbitration will take place in the province of british columbia.
63.
Despite section 62, an arbitral tribunal may meet at any place it Considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing Witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of documents, goods Or other personal property, or for viewing physical locations.
Language
64.
If the arbitral tribunal determines that it was necessary or reasonable For a party to incur the costs of translation of documents and oral Presentations in the circumstances of a particular disagreement, the Arbitral tribunal, on application of a party, may order that any of the Costs of that translation be deemed to be costs of the arbitration under Paragraph 44 of the chapter.
State of claim and defence 65.
Within 21 days after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the applicant Will deliver a written statement to all the parties stating the facts Supporting its claim or position, the points at issue and the relief or Remedy sought.
66.
Within 15 days after receipt of the applicant's statement, each Respondent will deliver a written statement to all the parties stating Its defence or position in respect of those particulars.
67.
Each party must attach to its statement a list of documents:
A. upon which the party intends to rely; and B. which describes each document by kind, date, author, addressee and Subject matter.
68.
The parties may amend or supplement their statements, including the list Of documents, and deliver counter-claims and defences to counter-claims During the course of the arbitral proceedings, unless the arbitral Tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow the amendment, supplement Or additional pleadings having regard to:
A. the delay in making it; and B. any prejudice suffered by the other parties.
69.
The parties will deliver copies of all amended, supplemented or new Documents delivered under section 68 to all the parties.
Disclosure
70.
The arbitral tribunal may order a party to produce, within a specified Time, any documents that:
A. have not been listed under section 67; B. the party has in its care, custody or control; and C. the arbitral tribunal considers to be relevant.
71.
Each party will allow the other party the necessary access at reasonable Times to inspect and take copies of all documents that the former party Has listed under section 67, or that the arbitral tribunal has Ordered to be produced under section 70.
72.
The parties will prepare and send to the arbitral tribunal an agreed Statement of facts within the time specified by the arbitral tribunal.
73.
Not later than 21 days before a hearing commences, each party will give The other party:
A. the name and address of any witness and a written summary of the Witness's evidence; and B. in the case of an expert witness, a written statement or report Prepared by the expert witness.
74.
Not later than 15 days before a hearing commences, each party will give To the other party and the arbitral tribunal an assembly of all Documents to be introduced at the hearing.
Hearings and written proceedings 75.
The arbitral tribunal must decide whether to hold hearings for the Presentation of evidence or for oral argument, or whether the Proceedings will be conducted on the basis of documents and other Materials.
76.
Unless the parties have agreed that no hearings will be held, the Arbitral tribunal must hold hearings at an appropriate stage of the Proceedings, if so requested by a party.
77.
The arbitral tribunal must give the parties sufficient advance notice of Any hearing and of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal for the purpose Of inspection of documents, goods or other property or viewing any Physical location.
78.
All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or Applications made to, the arbitral tribunal by one party will be Communicated to the other party, and any expert report or evidentiary Document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its decision Must be communicated to the parties.
79.
Unless ordered by the arbitral tribunal, all hearings and meetings in Arbitral proceedings, other than meetings of the arbitral tribunal, are Open to the public.
80.
The arbitral tribunal must schedule hearings to be held on consecutive Days until completion.
81.
All oral evidence must be taken in the presence of the arbitral tribunal And all the parties unless a party is absent by default or has waived The right to be present.
82.
The arbitral tribunal may order any individual to be examined by the Arbitral tribunal under oath or on affirmation in relation to the Disagreement and to produce before the arbitral tribunal all relevant Documents within the individual's care, custody or control.
83.
The document assemblies delivered under section 74 will be deemed to Have been entered into evidence at the hearing without further proof and Without being read out at the hearing, but a party may challenge the Admissibility of any document so introduced.
84.
If the arbitral tribunal considers it just and reasonable to do so, the Arbitral tribunal may permit a document that was not previously listed Under section 67, or produced as required under section 70 or 74, to be Introduced at the hearing, but the arbitral tribunal may take that Failure into account when fixing the costs to be awarded in the Arbitration.
85.
If the arbitral tribunal permits the evidence of a witness to be Presented as a written statement, the other party may require that Witness to be made available for cross examination at the hearing.
86.
The arbitral tribunal may order a witness to appear and give evidence, And, in that event, the parties may cross examine that witness and call Evidence in rebuttal.
Default of a party 87.
If, without showing sufficient cause, the applicant fails to communicate Its statement of claim in accordance with section 65, the arbitral Tribunal may terminate the proceedings.
88.
If, without showing sufficient cause, a respondent fails to communicate Its statement of defence in accordance with section 66, the arbitral Tribunal must continue the proceedings without treating that failure in Itself as an admission of the applicant's allegations.
89.
If, without showing sufficient cause, a party fails to appear at the Hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may Continue the proceedings and make the arbitral award on the evidence Before it.
90.
Before terminating the proceedings under section 87, the arbitral Tribunal must give all respondents written notice providing an Opportunity to file a statement of claim in respect of the disagreement Within a specified period of time.
Expert appointed by arbitral tribunal 91.
After consulting the parties, the arbitral tribunal may:
A. appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be Determined by the arbitral tribunal; and B. for that purpose, require a party to give the expert any relevant Information or to produce, or to provide access to, any relevant Documents, goods or other personal property or land for inspection or Viewing.
92.
The arbitral tribunal must give a copy of the expert's report to the Parties who must have an opportunity to reply to it.
93.
If a party so requests, or if the arbitral tribunal considers it Necessary, the expert must, after delivery of a written or oral report, Participate in a hearing where the parties must have the opportunity to Cross examine the expert and to call any evidence in rebuttal.
94.
The expert must, on the request of a party:
A. make available to that party for examination all documents, goods or Other property in the expert's possession, and provided to the expert in Order to prepare a report; and B. provide that party with a list of all documents, goods or other Personal property or land not in the expert's possession but which were Provided to or given access to the expert, and a description of the Location of those documents, goods or other personal property or lands.
Law applicable to substance of dispute 95.
An arbitral tribunal must decide the disagreement in accordance with the Law.
96.
If the parties have expressly authorized it to do so, an arbitral Tribunal may decide the disagreement based upon equitable Considerations.
97.
In all cases, an arbitral tribunal must make its decisions in accordance With the spirit and intent of the agreement.
98.
Before a final arbitral award is made, an arbitral tribunal or a party, With the agreement of the other parties, may refer a question of law to The supreme court for a ruling.
99.
A party may appeal a decision in the supreme court under section 98 to The british columbia court of appeal with leave of the british columbia Court of appeal. if the british columbia court of appeal:
A. refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the supreme Court under section 98; or B. hears an appeal from a ruling of the supreme court under section 98 The decision of the british columbia court of appeal may not be appealed To the supreme court of canada.
100.
While a request under section 98 is pending, the arbitral tribunal may Continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award unless:
A. the costs occasioned by proceeding before the ruling of the supreme Court is made would unduly prejudice the parties; or B. the parties agree otherwise.
Decision making by panel of arbitrators 101.
In arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, any decision of The arbitral tribunal must be made by a majority of all its members.
102.
If there is no majority decision on a matter to be decided, the decision Of the chair of the tribunal is the decision of the tribunal.
103.
Notwithstanding section 101, if authorized by the parties or all the Members of the arbitral tribunal, questions of procedure may be decided By the chair of the tribunal.
Settlement
104.
If, during arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the disagreement, The arbitral tribunal must terminate the proceedings and, if requested By the parties, must record the settlement in the form of an arbitral Award on agreed terms.
105.
An arbitral award on agreed terms:
A. must be made in accordance with sections 107 to 109; B. must state that it is an arbitral award; and C. has the same status and effect as any other arbitral award on the Substance of the disagreement.
Form and content of arbitral award 106.
An arbitral tribunal must make its final award as soon as possible and, In any event, not later than 60 days after:
A. the hearings have been closed; or B. the final submission has been made Whichever is the later date.
107.
An arbitral award must be made in writing, and be signed by the members Of the arbitral tribunal.
108.
An arbitral award must state the reasons upon which it is based, unless:
A. the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given; or B. the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 104 and 105.
109.
A signed copy of an arbitral award must be delivered to all the parties By the arbitral tribunal.
110.
At any time during the arbitral proceedings, an arbitral tribunal may Make an interim arbitral award on any matter with respect to which it May make a final arbitral award.
111.
An arbitral tribunal may award interest.
112.
The costs of an arbitration are in the discretion of the arbitral Tribunal which, in making an order for costs, may:
A. include as costs:
I. the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and expert witnesses, Ii. legal fees and expenses of the parties, Iii. any administration fees of a neutral appointing authority, or Iv. any other expenses incurred in connection with the arbitral Proceedings; and B. specify:
I. the party entitled to costs, Ii. the party who will pay the costs, Iii. subject to section 113, the amount of costs or method of Determining that amount, and Iv. the manner in which the costs will be paid.
113.
For purposes of section 112, an arbitral tribunal may award up to 50% of The reasonable and necessary legal fees and expenses that were actually Incurred by a party, and if the legal services were provided by an Employee or employees of that party, the arbitral tribunal may fix an Amount or determine an hourly rate to be used in the calculation of the Cost of those employee legal fees.
Termination of proceedings 114.
An arbitral tribunal must close any hearings if:
A. the parties advise they have no further evidence to give or Submissions to make; or B. the tribunal considers further hearings to be unnecessary or Inappropriate.
115.
A final arbitral award, or an order of the arbitral tribunal under Section 116, terminates arbitral proceedings.
116.
An arbitral tribunal must issue an order for the termination of the Arbitral proceedings if:
A. the applicant withdraws its claim, unless the respondent objects to The order and the arbitral tribunal recognizes a legitimate interest in Obtaining a final settlement of the disagreement; B. the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings; or C. the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings Has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.
117.
Subject to sections 118 to 123 and section 127, the mandate of an Arbitral tribunal terminates with the termination of the arbitral Proceedings.
Correction and interpretation of award; additional award 118.
Within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral award:
A. a party may request the arbitral tribunal to correct in the tribunal Award any computation errors, any clerical or typographical errors or Any other errors of a similar nature; and B. a party may, if agreed by all the parties, request the arbitral Tribunal to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the Arbitral award.
119.
If an arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 118 to be Justified, it must make the correction or give the interpretation within 30 days after receipt of the request and the interpretation will form Part of the arbitral award.
120.
An arbitral tribunal, on its own initiative, may correct any error of The type referred to in subsection 118 (a) within 30 days after the date Of the arbitral award.
121.
A party may request, within 30 days after receipt of an arbitral award, The arbitral tribunal to make an additional arbitral award respecting Claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the Arbitral award.
122.
If the arbitral tribunal considers a request made under section 121 to Be justified, it must make an additional arbitral award within 60 days.
123.
Sections 107 to 109, and sections 111 to 113 apply to a correction or Interpretation of an arbitral award made under section 119 or 120, or to An additional arbitral award made under section 122.
Application for setting aside arbitral award 124.
Subject to sections 129 and 131, an arbitral award may be set aside by The supreme court, and no other court, only if a party making the Application establishes that:
A. the party making the application:
I. was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of The arbitral proceedings, or Ii. was otherwise unable to present its case or respond to the other Party's case; B. the arbitral award:
I. deals with a disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within The terms of the submission to arbitration, or Ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to Arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to Arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that part Of the arbitral award that contains decisions on matters not submitted To arbitration may be set aside; C. the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure Was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless that Agreement was in conflict with a provision of this appendix from which The parties cannot derogate, or, failing any agreement, was not in Accordance with this appendix; D. the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or Fraudulent act; or E. the award was obtained by fraud.
125.
An application for setting aside may not be made more than three months:
A. after the date on which the party making that application received The arbitral award; or B. if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date On which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.
126.
An application to set aside an award on the ground that the arbitral Tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or fraudulent act or That the award was obtained by fraud must be commenced:
A. within the period referred to in section 125; or B. within 30 days after the applicant discovers or ought to have Discovered the fraud or corrupt or fraudulent act Whichever is the longer period.
127.
When asked to set aside an arbitral award, the supreme court may, where It is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the Proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time Determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:
A. to resume the arbitral proceedings; or B. to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion, Will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.
128.
A party that was not a participating party in an arbitration must be Given notice of an application under section 124, and is entitled to be A party to, and make representation on, the application.
Appeal on question of law 129.
A party may appeal an arbitral award to the supreme court, with leave, On a question of law, which the supreme court must grant only if it is Satisfied that:
A. the importance of the result of the arbitration to the parties Justifies the intervention of the court, and the determination of the Point of law may prevent a miscarriage of justice; or B. the point of law is of general or public importance.
130.
An application for leave may not be made more than three months:
A. after the date on which the party making the application received the Arbitral award; or B. if a request had been made under section 118 or 121, after the date On which that request was disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.
131.
The supreme court may confirm, vary or set aside the arbitral award or May remit the award to the arbitral tribunal with directions, including The court's opinion on the question of law.
132.
When asked to set aside an arbitral award the supreme court may, where It is appropriate and it is requested by a party, adjourn the Proceedings to set aside the arbitral award for a period of time Determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity:
A. to resume the arbitral proceedings; or B. to take any other action that, in the arbitral tribunal's opinion, Will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.
133.
A party that was not a participating party in an arbitration must be Given notice of an application under section 129 and is entitled to be a Party to, and make representation on the application.
134.
A party may appeal a decision of the supreme court under section 131 to The british columbia court of appeal with leave of the british columbia Court of appeal.
135.
If the british columbia court of appeal:
A. refuses to grant leave to a party to appeal a ruling of the supreme Court under section 131; or B. hears an appeal from a ruling of the supreme court under section 131, The decision of the british columbia court of appeal may not be appealed To the supreme court of canada.
136.
No application may be made under section 129 in respect of:
A. an arbitral award based upon equitable considerations as permitted in Section 96; or B. an arbitral award made in an arbitration commenced under paragraph 28 Of the chapter.
137.
No application for leave may be brought under section 129 in respect of A ruling made by the supreme court under section 98 if the time for Appealing that ruling has already expired.
Recognition and enforcement 138.
An arbitral award must be recognized as binding and, upon application to The supreme court, must be enforced subject to paragraph 136 and 137 of The nisg̱a'a government chapter.
139.
Unless the supreme court orders otherwise, the party relying on an Arbitral award or applying for its enforcement must supply the duly Authenticated original arbitral award or a duly certified copy of it.
Ground for refusing enforcement 140.
Subject to sections 128 and 133, a party that was not a participating Party in an arbitration must not bring an application under section 124 Or 129 to set the award aside but may resist enforcement of the award Against it by bringing an application under section 141.
141.
On the application of a party that was not a participating party in an Arbitration, the supreme court may make an order refusing to enforce Against that party an arbitral award made under this appendix if that Party establishes that:
A. it was not given copies of:
I. the notice of arbitration or agreement to arbitrate, or Ii. the pleadings or all amendments and supplements to the pleadings; B. the arbitral tribunal refused to add the party as a participating Party to the arbitration under paragraph 32 of the chapter; C. the arbitral award I. deals with a disagreement not contemplated by or not falling within The terms of the submission to arbitration, or Ii. contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to Arbitration
Provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can Be separated from those not so submitted, that part of the arbitral Award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may Be recognized and enforced; D. the arbitral award has not yet become binding on the parties or has Been set aside or suspended by a court; E. the arbitral tribunal or a member of it has committed a corrupt or Fraudulent act; or F. the award was obtained by fraud.