Protected areas of british columbia act [sbc 2000] chapter 17 Assented to june 29, 2000 Ecological reserves 1 (1) The ecological reserves named and described in schedule a are Continued or established for the purposes of the Ecological reserve act .
(2) The ecological reserves established and described in orders in council Referred to in schedule b are continued for the purposes of the Ecological reserve act .
Parks
2 The parks named and described in schedules c and d are continued or Established as class a parks for the purposes of the Park act .
Conservancies
2.1 The conservancies named and described in schedules e and f are Established or continued as conservancies for the purposes of the Park act .
Boundaries described by official plans 3 (1) For the purposes of this section, "official plan" Means a plan that is (a) Certified by the surveyor general, by signature on the plan, to be an Official plan, and (b) Kept on deposit in the crown land registry referred to in section 7 of The
Land act .
(2) All or part of the boundary of (a) An ecological reserve established under the Ecological reserve act Or established or continued by this act, (a.1) A conservancy established or continued by this act, or (b) A park established or continued by this act, May be described by reference to (c) One or more official plans, (d) Metes and bounds descriptions, (e) Lot or parcel descriptions, or (f) Any combination of the means referred to in paragraphs (c) to (e).
(3) To the extent of any variance between the marked representation of the Boundary on an official plan and the metes and bounds or other written Descriptions on the official plan, the metes and bounds or other Written descriptions prevail.
(4) Copies of official plans must be available for public inspection in The crown land registry during regular business hours, and a person May obtain a copy of an official plan on payment of a fee prescribed Under section 6 (3) of the Land act .
(5) A copy of an official plan, that is certified by the surveyor general To be a true copy, is admissible as evidence in a court without proof Of the signature or official character of the surveyor general.
(6) If an official plan referred to in schedule c or d contains a Reference to "by or under the Park act ", that reference is deemed to be a reference to "under the Park act Or the Protected areas of british columbia act ".
Spent
4-19 [consequential amendments. spent. 2000-17-4 to 19.] Schedule a Aleza lake ecological reserve Ambrose lake ecological reserve Anne vallee (triangle island) ecological reserve Baeria rocks ecological reserve Ballingall islets ecological reserve Bednesti lake ecological reserve Beresford island ecological reserve Big creek ecological reserve Big white mountain ecological reserve Blackwater creek ecological reserve Blue/dease rivers ecological reserve Bowen island ecological reserve Bowser ecological reserve Browne lake ecological reserve Buck hills road ecological reserve Burnt cabin bog ecological reserve Byers/conroy/harvey/sinnett islands ecological reserve Campbell brown (kalamalka lake) ecological reserve Canoe islets ecological reserve Cardiff mountain ecological reserve Catherine creek ecological reserve Cecil lake ecological reserve Charlie cole creek ecological reserve Chasm ecological reserve Checleset bay ecological reserve Chilako river ecological reserve Chilliwack river ecological reserve Chunamon creek ecological reserve Cinema bog ecological reserve Clanninick creek ecological reserve Claud elliott creek ecological reserve Clayhurst ecological reserve Cleland island ecological reserve Cougar canyon ecological reserve Det san ecological reserve Dewdney and glide islands ecological reserve Doc english bluff ecological reserve Drizzle lake ecological reserve Drywilliam lake ecological reserve Duke of edinburgh (pine/storm/tree islets) ecological reserve East redonda island ecological reserve Ellis island ecological reserve Evans lake ecological reserve Field's lease ecological reserve Fort nelson river ecological reserve Francis point ecological reserve Galiano island ecological reserve Gamble creek ecological reserve Gilnockie creek ecological reserve Gingietl creek ecological reserve Gladys lake ecological reserve Goosegrass creek ecological reserve Grayling river hot springs ecological reserve Haley lake ecological reserve Heather lake ecological reserve Honeymoon bay ecological reserve Hudson rocks ecological reserve Ilgachuz range ecological reserve Katherine tye ecological reserve Kingcome river/atlatzi river ecological reserve Kingfisher creek ecological reserve Klaskish river ecological reserve Kotcho lake ecological reserve Lasqueti island ecological reserve Lepas bay ecological reserve Lew creek ecological reserve Lily pad lake ecological reserve Liumchen ecological reserve Mackinnon esker ecological reserve Mahoney lake ecological reserve Mara meadows ecological reserve Mcqueen creek ecological reserve Megin river ecological reserve Meridian road (vanderhoof) ecological reserve Misty lake ecological reserve Moore/mckenny/whitmore islands ecological reserve Morice river ecological reserve Mount derby ecological reserve Mount griffin ecological reserve Mount maxwell ecological reserve Mount tinsdale ecological reserve Mount tuam ecological reserve Mount tzuhalem ecological reserve Nimpkish river ecological reserve Ningunsaw river ecological reserve Nitinat lake ecological reserve Oak bay islands ecological reserve Ospika cones ecological reserve Patsuk creek ecological reserve Portage brule rapids ecological reserve Robson bight (michael bigg) ecological reserve Rolla canyon ecological reserve Rose islets ecological reserve Rose spit ecological reserve Ross lake ecological reserve San juan ridge ecological reserve San juan river estuary ecological reserve Sartine island ecological reserve Satellite channel ecological reserve Sikanni chief river ecological reserve Skagit river cottonwoods ecological reserve Skagit river forest ecological reserve Skeena river ecological reserve Skihist ecological reserve Skwaha lake ecological reserve Smith river ecological reserve Soap lake ecological reserve Solander island ecological reserve Stoyoma creek ecological reserve Sutton pass ecological reserve Tahsish river ecological reserve Takla lake ecological reserve Ten mile point ecological reserve Torkelsen lake ecological reserve Tow hill ecological reserve Tranquille ecological reserve Trial islands ecological reserve Trout creek ecological reserve Tsitika mountain ecological reserve Upper shuswap river ecological reserve Vladimir j. krajina (port chanal) ecological reserve Westwick lakes ecological reserve Whipsaw creek ecological reserve Williams creek ecological reserve Woodley range ecological reserve Yale garry oak ecological reserve Yellow point bog ecological reserve Aleza lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1902.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 269 hectares.
Ambrose lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1961.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 295 hectares.
Anne vallee (triangle island) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 980 hectares (119 hectares of upland and 861 hectares of foreshore).
Baeria rocks ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in barclay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1904.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 140 hectares (2 hectares of upland and 138 hectares of foreshore).
Ballingall islets ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 29 tube 1839.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 0.5 hectares.
Bednesti lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 35 tube 1899.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 140 hectares.
Beresford island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 425 hectares (13 hectares of upland and 412 hectares of foreshore).
Big creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 36 tube 1899.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 256 hectares.
Big white mountain ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 953 hectares.
Blackwater creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1920.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 292 hectares.
Blue/dease rivers ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1900.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 965 hectares.
Bowen island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1907.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 399 hectares.
Bowser ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in newcastle district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 17 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 113 hectares.
Browne lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1855.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 114 hectares.
Buck hills road ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 35 Tube 1894.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 16 hectares.
Burnt cabin bog ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2024; except (1) wood lots wl 1512 a and wl 0100; and (2) the crown land referred to In crown lands file 6402590, as subject to an electric power line.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 669 hectares.
Byers/conroy/harvey/sinnett islands ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1891.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 11 923 hectares (215 hectares of upland and 11 708 hectares of foreshore).
Campbell brown (kalamalka lake) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1907; except british columbia hydro's powerline right of way.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 104 hectares.
Canoe islets ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 hectare.
Cardiff mountain ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1902; except a 20 metre road right of way centred on the non-status road passing Through the northwest corner of the ecological reserve.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 72 hectares.
Catherine creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1788.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 45 hectares.
Cecil lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1902.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 130 hectares.
Charlie cole creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1900.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 199 hectares.
Chasm ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 30 tube 1899.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 197 hectares.
Checleset bay ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2005.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 33 389 hectares (487 hectares of upland and 32 902 hectares of foreshore).
Chilako river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1900.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 66 hectares.
Chilliwack river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 2013.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 85 hectares.
Chunamon creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1901.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 344 hectares.
Cinema bog ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1901.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 72 hectares.
Clanninick creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1904; except a 30 metre right of way centred on the non-status east/west road crossing The most southerly third of the ecological reserve.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 60 hectares.
Claud elliott creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 233 hectares.
Clayhurst ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1907; subject To any and all prior rights acquired under the provisions of the Water act ; except a 100 metre right of way centred on clayhurst road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 400 hectares (294 hectares of upland and 106 hectares of foreshore).
Cleland island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1844.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 7 hectares.
Cougar canyon ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1869.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 553 hectares.
Det san ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot a, section 28, township 4, range 5, coast district, plan epp483.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 5.8 hectares.
Dewdney and glide islands ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore to the ordinary low water mark, situated in range 4, coast District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 1928.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 3 696 hectares.
Doc english bluff ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 2013.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 35 hectares.
Drizzle lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 2013.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 813 hectares.
Drywilliam lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1907.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 94 hectares.
Duke of edinburgh (pine/storm/tree islets) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And range 2, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 1 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 549 hectares (100 hectares of upland and 449 hectares of foreshore).
East redonda island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1913.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 6 182 hectares.
Ellis island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 24 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 6.6 hectares (0.6 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Evans lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 26 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 164 hectares.
Field's lease ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1928.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 4.5 hectares.
Fort nelson river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1907.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 158 hectares (125 hectares of upland and 33 hectares of foreshore).
Francis point ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 17 hectares (9 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).
Galiano island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in galiano island, cowichan District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1919.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 25 hectares.
Gamble creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1916.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 969 hectares.
Gilnockie creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 54 hectares.
Gingietl creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of that part of former "zaulzap" Indian reserve no. 29 lying to the north of nass river; Thence on an approximate bearing of 39°00'00" a distance of Approximately 2.066 kilometres to post number 81, which is to be set on The southeasterly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that Flows in a general southwesterly direction into nass river, with post Number 81 lying at bearing 0°00'00" a distance of approximately 403 Metres from the most westerly northwest corner of former "gitwinksihlkw" Indian reserve no. 7; Thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed Of that unnamed creek to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Shumal creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundary of The watershed of shumal creek to the easterly boundary of the watershed Of gingietl creek; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of the watershed of gingietl creek and continuing westerly Along the northerly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek that Flows in a general southeasterly direction into nass river to post Number 82, which is to be set; Thence on a bearing of 158°38'00" a distance of 2.478 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 154°51'00" a distance of approximately 1.080 Kilometres to post number 83 which is to be set on the right bank Natural boundary of nass river; Thence northerly along that part of the westerly boundary of former "zaulzap" indian reserve no. 29, lying to the north of nass river, to The northwest corner of nass river, with the northwest corner being the Point of commencement.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 873 hectares.
Gladys lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1961.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 40 541 hectares.
Goosegrass creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1908.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 699 hectares.
Grayling river hot springs ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1782.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 421 hectares.
Haley lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in dunsmuir district and Cowichan district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1911.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 888 hectares.
Heather lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1879.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 284 hectares.
Honeymoon bay ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 7.5 hectares.
Hudson rocks ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 50 hectares (2 hectares of upland and 48 hectares of foreshore).
Ilgachuz range ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1927.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 746 hectares.
Katherine tye ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 2, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 3.1 hectares.
Kingcome river/atlatzi river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 384 hectares.
Kingfisher creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1868.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 495 hectares.
Klaskish river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 149 hectares (122 hectares of upland and 27 hectares of foreshore).
Kotcho lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1785.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 64 hectares (49 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).
Lasqueti island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lasqueti island, nanaimo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 217 hectares.
Lepas bay ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1991.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1.5 hectares.
Lew creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 28 tube 1809.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 896 hectares.
Lily pad lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 33 Tube 1894.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 101 hectares.
Liumchen ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1847.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 161 hectares.
Mackinnon esker ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1893.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 545 hectares.
Mahoney lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1885.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 39 hectares (21 hectares of upland and 18 hectares of foreshore).
Mara meadows ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1876.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 178 hectares.
Mcqueen creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 18 Tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 35 hectares.
Megin river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2012.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 54 hectares.
Meridian road (vanderhoof) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4 coast district And cariboo district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1979.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 262 hectares.
Misty lake ecological reserve All those parcels of crown land, together with all that foreshore or Land covered by water, situated in rupert district and contained within The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1911; except ministry of Transportation's highway rest area, land and water british columbia inc.
File 1403793.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 73 hectares.
Moore/mckenny/whitmore islands ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore to the ordinary low water mark situated in range 3, coast District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1892.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 206 hectares.
Morice river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1902.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 355 hectares (343 hectares of upland and 12 hectares of foreshore).
Mount derby ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 557 hectares.
Mount griffin ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1854.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 249 hectares.
Mount maxwell ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in south saltspring island, Cowichan district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1999.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 418 hectares.
Mount tinsdale ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 2014.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 438 hectares.
Mount tuam ecological reserve All those parcels of crown land, together with all that foreshore or Land covered by water, situated in south saltspring island, cowichan District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1911; except road shown on plan 3 tube 1255 on deposit in The crown land registry.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 362 hectares.
Mount tzuhalem ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 20 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 18 hectares.
Nimpkish river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 19 hectares (15 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Ningunsaw river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1875.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 372 hectares.
Nitinat lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 21 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 77 hectares.
Oak bay islands ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in victoria district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1915.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 232 hectares (11 hectares of upland and 221 hectares of foreshore).
Ospika cones ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1870.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 282 hectares.
Patsuk creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1902.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 438 hectares.
Portage brule rapids ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1832.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 724 hectares.
Robson bight (michael bigg) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And rupert district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 715 hectares (467 hectares of upland and 1 248 hectares Of foreshore).
Rolla canyon ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1839; except Petroleum and natural gas tenure 47856.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 43 hectares.
Rose islets ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 hectare.
Rose spit ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1911.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 202 hectares.
Ross lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 Tube 1908.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 64 hectares.
San juan ridge ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 30 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 96 hectares.
San juan river estuary ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1911.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 191 hectares.
Sartine island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 091 hectares (30 hectares of upland and 1 061 hectares of Foreshore).
Satellite channel ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 340 hectares.
Sikanni chief river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 23 tube 1889.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 2 173 hectares.
Skagit river cottonwoods ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 59 hectares.
Skagit river forest ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 79 hectares.
Skeena river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1890; Subject to (1) pipeline right of way plan 6430, also shown as plan 7 Tube 951 deposited in the crown land registry; and (2) pipeline Right of way shown in plan 5 tube 1087 deposited in the crown land Registry and on land and water british columbia inc. file rw 0354957.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 341 hectares (163 hectares of upland and 178 hectares of foreshore).
Skihist ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 40 hectares.
Skwaha lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 32 Tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 849 hectares.
Smith river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1918.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 1 390 hectares.
Soap lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 33 Tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 936 hectares.
Solander island ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 16 tube 1904.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 10 hectares.
Stoyoma creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1999; except a 20 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests and range road fsr 7972-03, uztilius-stoyoma.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 71 hectares.
Sutton pass ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 31 tube 1894.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 5 hectares.
Tahsish river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1918.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 87 hectares (56 hectares of upland and 31 hectares of foreshore).
Takla lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1880.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 240 hectares.
Ten mile point ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in victoria district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 36 tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 15 hectares (1 hectare of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Torkelsen lake ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 158 hectares.
Tow hill ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 2007; except ministry of transportation's tow hill road no. 51 As shown on official plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1375 and plan 7 tube 1426.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 519 hectares (450 hectares of upland and 69 hectares of foreshore).
Tranquille ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 233 hectares.
Trial islands ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in victoria district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1901.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 14 hectares.
Trout creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 2016.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 83 hectares.
Tsitika mountain ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1849.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 554 hectares.
Upper shuswap river ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1902.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 90 hectares.
Vladimir j. krajina (port chanal) ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1990.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 9 174 hectares (8 057 hectares of upland and 1 117 hectares Of foreshore).
Westwick lakes ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1918; except a 30 metre road right of way as shown on plan 28 tube 727 deposited In the crown land registry.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 39 hectares (26 hectares of land and 13 hectares of foreshore).
Whipsaw creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 37 Tube 1914.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 32 hectares.
Williams creek ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1916.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 699 hectares.
Woodley range ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in oyster district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2015.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 159 hectares.
Yale garry oak ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1788; except (1) the land that is subject to the canadian National railway right of way, plan a525; (2) "yale" indian reserve no.
3; (3) "yale" indian reserve no. 19; and (4) "yale" indian reserve no.
20.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 11.65 hectares.
Yellow point bog ecological reserve All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in oyster district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1910.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 137 hectares.
Schedule b Baynes island ecological reserve, established by order in council 3762/75 Chickens neck mountain ecological reserve, established by order in Council 440/75
Columbia lake ecological reserve, established by order in council 1582/71 Comox lake bluffs ecological reserve, established by order in council 592/96 Fraser river ecological reserve, established by order in council 660/77 Haynes' lease ecological reserve, established by order in council 2782/80 Klanawa river ecological reserve, established by order in council 592/96 Mount elliott ecological reserve, established by order in council 1178/89 Narcosli lake ecological reserve, established by order in council 3293/73 Nechako river ecological reserve, established by order in council 3765/75 Parker lake ecological reserve, established by order in council 1829/73 Pitt polder ecological reserve, established by order in council 881/80 Race rocks ecological reserve, established by order in council 692/80 Ram creek ecological reserve, established by order in council 2721/71 Raspberry harbour ecological reserve, established by order in council 1265/78 Skagit river rhododendrons ecological reserve, established by order in Council 2318/81
Sunbeam creek ecological reserve, established by order in council 2099/72 Tacheeda lakes ecological reserve, established by order in council 3276/72 Tsitika river ecological reserve, established by order in council 1180/89 Vance creek ecological reserve, established by order in council 466/72 Schedule c Adams lake marine park Adams lake park – bush creek site Akamina-kishinena park Alexandra bridge park Alice lake park Allison harbour marine park Allison lake park Anderson bay park Anderson flats park Apodaca park Arbutus grove park Arctic pacific lakes park Atlin/a téix'gi aan tlein park Babine lake marine park Babine mountains park Babine river corridor park Bamberton park Banana island park Barkerville park Bear creek park Bear glacier park Beatton park Beatton river park Beaumont park Bellhouse park Big bar lake park Big bunsby marine park Bijoux falls park Birkenhead lake park Bishop river park Blanket creek park Blue river black spruce park Blue river pine park Bobtail mountain park Bocock peak park Bodega ridge park Border lake park Boulder creek park Boundary creek park Boyle point park Brackendale eagles park Brandywine falls park Bridal veil falls park Bridge lake park Bromley rock park Broughton archipelago park Buccaneer bay park Buckinghorse river wayside park Bugaboo park Bulkley junction park Bull canyon park Burges james gadsden park Burns lake park Butler ridge park Caligata lake park Call lake park Callaghan lake park Canim beach park Cape scott park Cariboo nature park Carmanah walbran park Carp lake park Catala island marine park Cathedral park Champion lakes park Charlie lake park Chase park Chemainus river park Chilliwack river park Choquette hot springs park Christie memorial park Christina lake park Chu chua cottonwood park Cinnemousun narrows park Clayoquot arm park Clayoquot plateau park Clendinning park Close-to-the-edge park Codville lagoon marine park Cody caves park Coldwater river park Collinson point park Columbia lake park Conkle lake park Copeland islands marine park Coquihalla canyon park Cormorant channel marine park Coste rocks park Cottonwood river park Crooked river park Crowsnest park Cultus lake park Cummins lakes park Dala-kildala rivers estuaries park Darke lake park Davis lake park Dawley passage park Desolation sound marine park Diana lake park Dionisio point park Discovery island marine park Dixie cove marine park Downing park Drewry point park Driftwood canyon park Drumbeg park Dry gulch park Duffey lake park Dune za keyih park [a.k.a. frog-gataga park] Eagle bay park Eakin creek canyon park Eakin creek floodplain park East pine park E. c. manning park Echo bay marine park Echo lake park Ed bird – estella lakes park Elk falls park Elk lakes park Elk valley park Ellison park Emar lakes park Emory creek park Eneas lakes park English lake park Englishman river falls park Entiako park Epsom park Erg mountain park Erie creek park Eskers park Ethel f. wilson memorial park Evanoff park Exchamsiks river park F. h. barber park Fillongley park Finlay-russel park Finn creek park Fintry park Flores island park Foch-gilttoyees park Fort george canyon park Fossli park French beach park Gabriola sands park Garden bay marine park Garibaldi park Gerald island park Gibson marine park Gilnockie park Gitnadoiks river park Goat range park Golden ears park Goldpan park Goldstream park Gordon bay park Great glacier park Green inlet marine park Green lake park Grohman narrows park Gwillim lake park Hai lake – mount herman park Halkett bay marine park Hamber park Hardy island marine park Harmony islands marine park Háthayim marine park [a.k.a. von donop marine park] Heather-dina lakes park Helliwell park Hemer park Herald park Hesquiat lake park Hesquiat peninsula park High lakes basin park Homathko estuary park Horsefly lake park Hwsalu-utsum park Hyland river park Inkaneep park Inland lake park Iskut river hot springs park Jackman flats park Jackson narrows marine park Jáji7em and kw'ulh marine park [a.k.a. sandy island marine park] James chabot park Jedediah island marine park Jewel lake park Jimsmith lake park Joffre lakes park Johnstone creek park Juan de fuca park Juniper beach park Kakwa park Kekuli bay park Kennedy lake park Kennedy river bog park Kentucky-alleyne park Keremeos columns park Khutzeymateen park [a.k.a. khutzeymateen/k'tzim-a-deen grizzly Sanctuary]
Kickininee park Kikomun creek park Kilby park Kinaskan lake park King george vi park Kiskatinaw park Kitimat river park Kitson island marine park Kitsumkalum park Kitwanga mountain park Kleanza creek park Klewnuggit inlet marine park Kokanee creek park Kokanee glacier park Koksilah river park Kootenay lake park Kwadacha wilderness park Lac la hache park Lakelse lake park Lakelse lake wetlands park Lanz and cox islands park L
Áu,wel Ṉ
E
W̱
/john dean park Lava forks park Lawn point park Liard river hot springs park Little andrews bay marine park Little qualicum falls park Lockhart beach park Lockhart creek park Loon lake park Loveland bay park Lowe inlet marine park Lower nimpkish park Lower skeena river park Lower tsitika river park Mabel lake park Macmillan park Main lake park Mansons landing park Mara park Marl creek park Martha creek park Maxhamish lake park Mcdonald creek park Memory island park Meziadin lake park Miracle beach park Mitlenatch island nature park Moberly lake park Momich lakes park Monck park Monkman park Montague harbour marine park Monte lake park Morden colliery historic park Morrissey park Morton lake park Mount assiniboine park Mount blanchet park Mount edziza park Mount elphinstone park Mount erskine park Mount maxwell park Mount pope park Mount richardson park Mount seymour park Mount terry fox park Moyie lake park M
Q
U
Q
W
In/brooks peninsula park Mud lake delta park Mudzenchoot park Muncho lake park Murrin park Muscovite lakes park Nahatlatch park Naikoon park Nairn falls park Nalbeelah creek wetlands park Nancy greene park Netalzul meadows park Nickel plate park Nicolum river park Nilkitkwa lake park Nimpkish lake park Ningunsaw park Niskonlith lake park Nitinat river park Norbury lake park North thompson islands park North thompson oxbows east park North thompson oxbows manteau park North thompson river park Nuchatlitz park Octopus islands marine park Okanagan lake park Okanagan mountain park Okeover arm park Oliver cove marine park Omineca park One island lake park Otter lake park Owyacumish river park Paarens beach park Peace arch park Pennask lake park Penrose island marine park Petroglyph park Pilot bay park Pine river breaks park Pinnacles park Pirates cove marine park Plumper cove marine park Porcupine meadows park Porpoise bay park Porteau cove park Premier lake park Princess louisa marine park Prophet river wayside park Prudhomme lake park Ptarmigan creek park Puntchesakut lake park Purden lake park Pure lake park Pyramid creek falls park Quatsino park Raft cove park Rathtrevor beach park Rearguard falls park Rebecca spit marine park Red bluff park Rendezvous island south park Roberts creek park Roberts memorial park Rolley lake park Roscoe bay park Rosebery park Rosewall creek park Ross lake park Rubyrock lake park Ruckle park Rugged point marine park Ruth lake park Ryan park St. mary's alpine park Sabine channel marine park Saltery bay park Sandwell park Santa gertrudis-boca del infierno park Sargeant bay park Sasquatch park Saysutshun (newcastle island marine) park Schoen lake park Sechelt inlets marine park Seeley lake park Seton portage historic park Seven sisters park Shannon falls park Shuswap lake marine park Shuswap lake park Silver beach park Silver lake park Silver star park Simson park Sir alexander mackenzie park Skagit valley park Skihist park Skookumchuck narrows park Sleeping beauty mountain park Slim creek park Small inlet marine park Small river caves park Smelt bay park Smuggler cove marine park Sooke potholes park South texada island park Sowchea bay park Spatsizi headwaters park Spatsizi plateau wilderness park Spectacle lake park Spider lake park Spipiyus park Sproat lake park Squitty bay park Stagleap park Stamp river park Steelhead park Stemwinder park Stikine river park Stone mountain park Strathcona park Stuart lake marine park Stuart lake park Sue channel park Sugarbowl-grizzly den park Sukunka falls park Summit lake park Sunnybrae park Sun-oka beach park Surge narrows park Sustut park Sutherland river park Sẁiẁs park Swan lake kispiox river park Swan lake park S
X̱
Ótsaqel/chilliwack lake park S
Xˇ
W
Ə
Xˇ
W
Nitk
W
Park [a.k.a. okanagan falls park] Sydney inlet park Syringa park Tā ch'ilā park [a.k.a. boya lake park] Tahsish-kwois park Takla lake marine park Tatlatui park Taylor arm park Taylor landing park Teakerne arm park Ten mile lake park Three sisters lakes park Thunder hill park Thurston bay marine park Top of the world park Topley landing park Tranquil creek park Trembleur lake park Tribune bay park Ts'ilɂos park Tsútswecw park Tudyah lake park Tuya mountains park Tweedsmuir park Tyhee lake park Union passage marine park Upper adams river park Upper lillooet park Upper seymour river park Valhalla park Vargas island park Vaseux lake park Victor lake park Wakes cove park Wallace island marine park Walloper lake park Walsh cove park Wapiti lake park Wardner park Wasa lake park Weewanie hot springs park West arm park West lake park West shawnigan lake park West twin park Weymer creek park Whaleboat island marine park Whiskers point park White river park Whiteswan lake park Windermere lake park Wire cache park Wistaria park Woss lake park Yahk park Yard creek park Adams lake marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Poplar point site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1778.
The whole site containing approximately 8 hectares.
Refuge bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 18 tube 1853.
The whole site containing approximately 43 hectares (30 hectares of upland and 13 hectares of foreshore).
Spillman beaches site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1778; except the forest service Road identified as road 9865.01.
The whole site containing approximately 211 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 262 hectares.
Adams lake park – bush creek site All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1853.
The whole park containing approximately 100 hectares (61 hectares of upland and 39 hectares of foreshore).
Akamina-kishinena park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at boundary monument 272, which marks the southeast corner of The province; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the province to the Westerly boundary of the watershed of starvation creek; Thence in a northeasterly direction along the westerly boundary of the Watershed of starvation creek, passing through starvation peak, and Continuing northeasterly along the southeasterly boundaries of the Watersheds of those unnamed creeks flowing northwesterly into kishinena Creek to a point on the starvation creek watershed boundary lying due West of the headwaters of ord creek; Thence due east to the left bank natural boundary of ord creek; Thence northeasterly along the left bank natural boundary of ord creek To the left bank natural boundary of beavertail creek; Thence northerly along the natural boundary of beavertail creek to a Point lying due west of the right bank natural boundary of way creek; Thence due east to the right bank natural boundary of way creek; Thence northeasterly along the natural boundary of way creek to its Intersection with a 6 200 foot (1 890 metre) contour; Thence in a general northerly and southeasterly direction along the 6 200 foot (1 890 metre) contour to its intersection with the Left bank natural boundary of per creek; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately 132° a distance of approximately 1.2 kilometres to a point lying 800 Metres due south and 250 metres due west of the southwest corner of District lot 11078; Thence due south 1.2 kilometres; Thence due east approximately 2.3 kilometres, crossing grizzly gulch, to The 6 200 foot (1 890 metre) contour; Thence in a general northerly and southeasterly direction along the 6 200 foot (1 890 metre) contour to its intersection with the Left bank natural boundary of the mainstream of biscuitboard creek; Thence northeasterly along the left bank natural boundary of the Mainstream of biscuitboard creek, crossing a northeasterly flowing Unnamed tributary, and continuing northeasterly along the left bank Natural boundary of wall creek, produced to the right bank natural Boundary of alkamine creek; Thence easterly along the right bank natural boundary of alkamine creek To the right bank natural boundary of zur creek; Thence northeasterly along the right bank natural boundary of zur creek To its intersection with the 6 200 foot (1 890 metre) contour; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along that contour to a Point lying due north of the middle line of kishinena creek, at the Headwaters of kishinena creek; Thence due north to the northerly boundary of the watershed of kishinena Creek;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Kishinena creek to the easterly boundary of the province; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the easterly boundary Of the province to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 10 921.5 hectares.
Alexandra bridge park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1919.
The whole park containing approximately 51 hectares.
Alice lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 4 tube 1898; except the garibaldi highway no. 99 Right of way as shown on plans 15522 and hwy plan 151.
Secondly: district lot 6861.
The whole park containing approximately 411 hectares.
Allison harbour marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1989.
The whole park containing approximately 132 hectares (89 hectares of upland and 43 hectares of foreshore).
Allison lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1902; except the merritt – princeton highway, no. 5a, shown on Ministry of transportation's plan a573.
The whole park containing approximately 21 hectares (13 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).
Anderson bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in texada island district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 31 tube 1768; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on texada forest service Road, project 5829-03; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on road use Permit 01-5829-98; and (3) the land that is the subject of district lot 514 - aquatic licence 235778, file 2401569.
The whole park containing approximately 35 hectares.
Anderson flats park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1978; except a 20 metre right of way centred on the travelled surface of hazelton Station road, no. 112.
The whole park containing approximately 99 hectares (83 hectares of upland and 16 hectares of foreshore).
Apodaca park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1906.
The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares (8 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Arbutus grove park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanoose district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of lot 1, block 681, plan 18711 lying south of ministry of Transportation's drawing no. r1-81-6 rw.
The whole park containing approximately 22 hectares.
Arctic pacific lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1932; except (1) the land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road, permit r3906, sections d, e and g; and (2) District lot 13029 shown on the official plan deposited in the crown Land registry as plan 3 tube 1894.
The whole park containing approximately 13 887 hectares.
Atlin/a téix'gi aan tlein park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2005; except The land subject to the licence of occupation for a communication site Identified in file 6408080, document no. 635852, on file at the ministry Of forests, lands and natural resource operations, smithers.
The whole park containing approximately 229 894 hectares.
Babine lake marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And cassiar district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Hook (deep) bay site In range 5, coast district, the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1875.
The whole site containing approximately 179 hectares (161 hectares of upland and 18 hectares of foreshore).
Pendleton bay site In range 5, coast district, the following boundaries described as:
District lots 7581 and 7584, except babine lake road; District lots 7631 and 7632; Blocks a & b of district lot 6684; Foreshore lot district lot 7823.
The whole site containing approximately 36.8 hectares (31.5 hectares of upland and 5.3 hectares of foreshore).
Pierre creek site In range 5, coast district, the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1875.
The whole site containing approximately 35 hectares (29 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Pinkut creek site In range 5, coast district, the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1875.
The whole site containing approximately 66 hectares (49 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).
Sandpoint site In range 5, coast district, the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1875.
The whole site containing approximately 54 hectares (41 hectares of upland and 13 hectares of foreshore).
Smithers landing site In cassiar district, the following boundaries described as:
Firstly: district lot 3748, except plan 3553; Lots 16 to 26 of district lot 3748 plan 3553; The unnamed roads adjoining the southerly boundaries of lots 16, 21, 23, 24, 25 and 26 of plan 3553 of district lot 3748; The unnamed roads adjoining the westerly boundaries of lots 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 26 of plan 3553 of district lot 3748; Lot 1 of district lot 3750, plan 3553; Lot 1 of district lot 3750, plan 3729.
Secondly: commencing at the northeasterly corner of lot 26 of district Lot 3748, plan 3553; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the southerly shore Natural boundary of babine lake; Thence in a general southeasterly then northeasterly direction along the Natural boundary of babine lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 121.0 hectares (110.0 hectares of upland and 11.0 hectares of foreshore).
The whole park containing approximately 491.8 hectares (421.5 hectares of upland and 70.3 hectares of foreshore).
Babine mountains park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And cassiar district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1851; except (1) wood lot 1506; and (2) a 15 metre road Right of way centred on driftwood road no. 23 to the entrance of the Sunny point parking lot.
The whole park containing approximately 31 146 hectares.
Babine river corridor park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1813; except (1) forest licence a16831 - cp441, blocks 7, 32, 43 and 48b; (2) forest Licence a16831 - cp 417, block 35; (3) forest licence a16829 - cp 161, Blocks 354a, 354d and 354e; and (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road, permit ro 3780.
Secondly: the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 28 tube 1866; except (1) district lot 7042; and (2) a 10 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road nilkitkwa, fsr 5897.00.
The whole park containing approximately 15 359 hectares.
Bamberton park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in malahat district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1920.
The whole park containing approximately 27 hectares.
Banana island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 16 Tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 6 hectares.
[ Barkerville park.
Description repealed 2006-15-33.] Bear creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1902.
The whole park containing approximately 158 hectares (151 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Bear glacier park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of Stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) with the middle line of an unnamed Creek that flows southwesterly into bear river, with the intersection Lying on a bearing of 101°15'00" a distance of approximately 708 metres From the most northerly northeast corner of district lot 5364, being the "some fraction" mineral claim; Thence on an approximate bearing of 214°04'00" a distance of Approximately 900 metres to the most easterly corner of district lot 5362, being the "heather 6" mineral claim; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of District lot 5362 to the most southerly southeast corner of district lot 5362; Thence on a bearing of 226°58'00" a distance of 764 metres; Thence on a bearing of 192°44'00" a distance of 662 metres; Thence on a bearing of 182°47'00" a distance of 348 metres; Thence on a bearing of 103°22'00" a distance of 609 metres; Thence on a bearing of 58°13'00" a distance of 2 346 metres; Thence on a bearing of 102°56'00" a distance of approximately 596 metres To the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows in a general Northerly direction into strohn lake; Thence northeasterly and northerly along the middle line of that unnamed Creek a distance of 854 metres; Thence on a bearing of 94°52'00" a distance of approximately 389 metres To the middle line of the unnamed creek that flows northeasterly into Strohn creek; Thence northeasterly along the middle line of that unnamed creek a Distance of approximately 800 metres to the right bank natural boundary Of strohn creek; Thence on a bearing of 0°00'00" a distance of approximately 115 metres To the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a); Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) to the point of commencement; except ministry of Transportation "25 mile south pit", more particularly described as Commencing at the intersection of the southerly boundary of Stewart-cassiar highway (highway 37a) with the southerly boundary of Bear glacier rest area access road; Thence southwesterly along the southerly boundary of bear glacier rest Area access road a distance of 325 metres; Thence on a bearing of 163°00'00" a distance of 125 metres; Thence on a bearing of 79°00'00" a distance of 325 metres; Thence on a bearing of 338°00'00" a distance of approximately 248 metres To the point of commencement, and containing approximately 6.6 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 542 hectares.
[ Beatton park.
Description repealed 2021-28-1.] Beatton river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1785.
The whole park containing approximately 185 hectares.
Beaumont park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1836; Except (1) highway no. 16 right of way shown on ministry of Transportation's plan 4167 and plan 4170 (also shown on official plans Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 575 and plan 3 Tube 575); (2) canadian national railway right of way plan 1152 (also shown on official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 1 tube 226 rlys); (3) ministry of transportation's nautley Road no. 48 shown on ministry of transportation's plan 4436; (4) british Columbia hydro right of way plan 5692 (also shown on official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 28 tube 807); (5) a 30 Metre right of way centred on ministry of transportation's fraser Mountain road no. 122, a section 42 Transportation act Highway; and (6) plan 4967 (also shown on official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 13 tube 771 rlys).
The whole park containing approximately 178 hectares (164 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Bellhouse park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1, section 5, galiano island, plan 16867.
The whole park containing approximately 2.5 hectares.
Big bar lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1906.
The whole park containing approximately 368 hectares (333 hectares of upland and 35 hectares of foreshore).
Big bunsby marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2004.
The whole park containing approximately 619 hectares (267 hectares of upland and 352 hectares of foreshore).
Bijoux falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 17 tube 1926; except The right of way of the british columbia railway, block a, district lot 11775, peace river district as shown on the preliminary plan prepared by Tom j. tryon, bcls, the survey completed november 8, 2000, a copy of Which is on file with crown land registry as 7ry307.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
Birkenhead lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1989.
The whole park containing approximately 10 439 hectares.
Bishop river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district, range 1, coast district and range 2, coast district, and contained within the Described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1836.
The whole park containing approximately 19 947 hectares.
Blanket creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 26 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 318 hectares.
Blue river black spruce park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the kamloops division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 2023.
The whole park containing approximately 236 hectares.
Blue river pine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 19 Tube 1780.
The whole park containing approximately 28 hectares.
Bobtail mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1844.
The whole park containing approximately 1 360 hectares.
Bocock peak park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1841.
The whole park containing approximately 1 142 hectares.
Bodega ridge park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in galiano island, cowichan District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2011; except a 20 metre right of way centred on porlier pass Drive.
The whole park containing approximately 397 hectares (321 hectares of upland and 76 hectares of foreshore).
Border lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1867.
The whole park containing approximately 814 hectares.
Boulder creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1788; except Boulder creek road to sultana group listed on the mine road data base as 93-m/8.
The whole park containing approximately 53 hectares.
Boundary creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained with the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the westerly limit of the right of way of Highway no. 3 lying 201.2 metres south and 191.14 metres east of the Northwest corner of lot 1012; Thence westerly in a direction parallel to the northern boundary of lot 1012 to the left bank of boundary creek; Thence northerly and easterly along the left bank of boundary creek to Its intersection with the westerly limit of the right of way for highway No. 3;
Thence southerly along the westerly limit of the right of way for Highway no. 3 to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 2 hectares.
Boyle point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1999; except British columbia hydro and power authority right of way plan 2083rw, as Also shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 3 tube 973.
The whole park containing approximately 188 hectares.
Brackendale eagles park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1979; Except (1) "cheakumus" indian reserve no. 11; (2) "yookwitz" indian Reserve no. 12; (3) "pohquiosin and skamain" indian reserve no. 13; (4) "waiwakum" indian reserve no. 14; (5) "aikwucks" indian reserve no. 15; (6) "seaichem" indian reserve no. 16; (7) "yekwaupsum" indian reserve No. 19; and (8) baynes island ecological reserve.
The whole park containing approximately 765 hectares.
Brandywine falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1999; except (1) the land shown on highway plan h-105, lto Plan bcp 31821 and lto plan bcp 40130, except that part included within "reference plan of closed road dedicated on highway plan h-105 and bcp 31821, d.l. 4098, and as shown on highway plan h-104, d.l. 4099, group 1, new westminster district", as shown on bunbury & assoc. drawing W-3551-1, on file at the ministry of environment, parks and protected Areas division, victoria; (2) district lot 2945; and (3) lto plan Bcp24386.
The whole park containing approximately 420 hectares.
Bridal veil falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1899; Except road right of way shown on plan 13641.
The whole park containing approximately 33 hectares.
Bridge lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2020.
The whole park containing approximately 434 hectares.
Bromley rock park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1913; except (1) highway no. 3, shown on plans h909 and h10305 And also shown on plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 798 and plan 23 tube 1038; (2) a 20.1168 metre right of Way centred on ministry of transportation's old princeton-hedley road, No. 116, a section 42 Transportation act Highway; and (3) telephone right of way shown on plan a797 of district Lot 4067
S
.
The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares.
Broughton archipelago park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1901.
The whole park containing approximately 11 751 hectares (2 061 hectares of upland and 9 690 hectares of Foreshore).
Buccaneer bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1999.
The whole park containing approximately 45 hectares (0.5 hectares of upland and 44.5 hectares of foreshore).
Buckinghorse river wayside park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 2148; Thence due east 540.4 metres; Thence due south approximately 225 metres to a point lying due east of The southeast corner of district lot 585; Thence due east approximately 750 metres to the point of intersection With the left bank natural boundary of buckinghorse river; Thence on a bearing of 135° a distance of approximately 40 metres to the Middle thread of the buckinghorse river; Thence southerly, westerly, and northerly along the middle thread of the Buckinghorse river to a point lying on a bearing of 225° at a distance Of approximately 40 metres from the southeast corner of district lot 585; Thence on a bearing of 225° a distance of approximately 40 metres to the Southeast corner of district lot 585; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 585 to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.
Bugaboo park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 16427; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 16427 to The northwest corner of district lot 16427; Thence due west a distance of 300 metres; Thence due north a distance of 800 metres; Thence due west a distance of approximately 1.85 kilometres to the Easterly boundary of the watershed of the unnamed creeks that include Cobalt lake within their drainage; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of the Unnamed creeks and continuing northerly along the easterly boundary of The watershed of vowell creek to triangulation station monument 122 (67), being a point; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 250° a distance Of approximately 6.25 kilometres to the westerly boundary of the Watershed of malloy creek; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of malloy Creek, passing through mount malloy, to the northerly boundary of the Watershed of east creek; Thence in a general easterly and southerly direction following the east Creek watershed boundary, passing through spear spire, snafflehound Spire, mount kelvin, wallace peak, howser spire, flattop peak and Thimble peak, respectively, to howser peak; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along sextet ridge, passing Through rock ridge peak, anniversary peak and frenchman mountain, to its Intersection with the 7 400 foot (2 255 metre) contour; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 46° to the 5 100 foot (1 555 metre) contour; Thence due north a distance of 350 metres; Thence due west to a point lying due south of the southwest corner of District lot 16427; Thence due north to the southwest corner of district lot 16427, being The point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 13 646.6 hectares.
Bulkley junction park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1898; except (1) ministry of transportation's quarrying reserve no. 84650 lying in Block b of district lot 147, as shown on file no. 6401981 on deposit at The skeena land and water british columbia inc. regional office in Smithers; and (2) a 20 metre right of way centred on ministry of Transportation's hazelton-kitwanga road no. 113.
The whole park containing approximately 169 hectares (120 hectares of upland and 49 hectares of foreshore).
Bull canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 36 tube 1809; except (1) highway 20, as shown on plan 31767, on deposit in the prince george Land title office; and (2) a gravel quarry, held by ministry of Transportation, contained within district lot 6698 as shown on crown Lands file 5402442.
The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares.
Burges james gadsden park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 25 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 404 hectares.
Burns lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 23 tube 1866.
The whole park containing approximately 65 hectares.
Butler ridge park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1841; except Petroleum and natural gas tenures (1) 41421; (2) 10360; (3) 14544; (4) 14545; (5) 44475; (6) 41422; (7) 44272; (8) 44274; and (9) a 40 metre Right of way centred on ministry of transportation's 12 mile road [a.k.a. dunlevy road].
The whole park containing approximately 6 024 hectares.
Caligata lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 20 Tube 1853.
The whole park containing approximately 153 hectares.
Call lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1788; Except (1) lot a, plan prp 13410, filed in the prince rupert land title Office; and (2) the 15 metre wide part of the bed and foreshore of call Lake fronting the waterfront portion of lot a, plan prp 13410, filed in The prince rupert land title office.
The whole park containing approximately 60 hectares.
Callaghan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And lillooet district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 32 tube 1894.
The whole park containing approximately 2 691 hectares.
[ Canal flats park.
Description repealed 2009-19-2.] Canim beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1907; except Ministry of transportation's road, plan h-10743 and shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 491.
The whole park containing approximately 8.2 hectares (3.6 hectares of upland and 4.6 hectares of foreshore).
Cape scott park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2016.
The whole park containing approximately 22 300 hectares (17 328 hectares of upland and 4 972 hectares of Foreshore).
Cariboo nature park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1904; except (1) the right of way of the caribou highway no. 97 as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 435; (2) the new right of way for highway no. 97 shown on Ministry of transportation plans titled "for right-of-way acquisition, Highway no. 97, wright station curves, drawing no. r2-640-103rw and Drawing no. r2-640-104rw" on file with the ministry of transportation Kamloops regional office; and (3) the transmission line right of way as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 528.
The whole park containing approximately 89 hectares.
Carmanah walbran park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1921.
The whole park containing approximately 16 365 hectares.
Carp lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1906; except (1) district lots 10121 and 10122, being "carp lake" indian reserve no.
3; (2) district lot 10120, being "war lake" indian reserve no. 4; (3) Canadian forest products road, ro 1860-sec. h1; (4) a 30 metre right of Way centred on canadian forest products road permit r7645 a1 sec. e; and (5) the mcleod lake treaty 8 adhesion lands.
The whole park containing approximately 38 149 hectares.
Catala island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 29 tube 1899.
The whole park containing approximately 955 hectares (259 hectares of upland and 696 hectares of foreshore).
Cathedral park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1915; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests' ashnola river forest service road 6296-01; (2) district lot 2056 S
; (3) district lot 2200 S
; and (4) district lot 3235 S
.
The whole park containing approximately 33 077 hectares.
Champion lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1912.
The whole park containing approximately 1 452 hectares.
Charlie lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1959; except The crown land that is the subject of the right of way of the alaska Highway as shown on plan a1027 and plan rs 3845.
The whole park containing approximately 176 hectares (167 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).
Chase park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1873.
The whole park containing approximately 36 226 hectares.
Chemainus river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in seymour district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1914; except (1) plan 384 right of way, also shown on plan 16 tube 328 deposited In the crown land registry; (2) plan 405 right of way; (3) plan 335 Right of way, also shown on plan 3ry202 and plan 10ry207; and (4) Ministry of forests' road no. 1059.
The whole park containing approximately 119 hectares (117 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Chilliwack river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 2, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of district lot 439 described as commencing at the Southeast corner of lot 6 of district lot 499, plan 24589; Thence north along the east boundaries of lot 6, "road", lot 1, all of District lot 499, plan 24589 and district lot 792 to the south boundary Of the road shown on plan 53768; Thence in a general easterly direction along the south boundary of the Road shown on plan 53768 to the west boundary of lot 3 of district lot 780, plan 37705; Thence south along the west boundaries of lots 3 and 5 of district lot 780, plan 37705 to the southwest corner of lot 5; Thence south along the southerly production of the west boundary of lot 5 to the north boundary of district lot 843; Thence west along the north boundary of district lot 843 to the Northwest corner of district lot 843; Thence in a general southeast direction along the south boundary of District lot 843 to the southeast corner of district lot 843; Thence north along the east boundary of district lot 843 to the point of Intersection with the south boundary of district lot 217; Thence east along the south boundary of district lot 217 to the Northeast corner of the remainder of lot 2 of district lot 439, plan 33276; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 52 to the natural boundary Of chilliwack river as determined in 1973 and shown in red on the plan Filed with parks and outdoor recreation, file 2-7-4-6; Thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of Chilliwack river to the point of intersection with the east boundary of District lot 499, as shown on plan on file 2-7-4-6; Thence in a general northeast direction along east boundary of district Lot 499 to the southwest corner of lot 4 of plan 24589; Thence due south 35.05 metres; Thence east in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 6 of District lot 499, plan 24589, being the point of commencement.
Secondly: lot 52 of district lot 439, plan 33276, except plan 36920.
The whole park containing approximately 23.1 hectares.
Choquette hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 36 tube 1866.
The whole park containing approximately 52 hectares.
[ Christie memorial park.
Description repealed 2012-32-2.] Christina lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 9 hectares.
Chu chua cottonwood park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 19 Tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 108 hectares.
Cinnemousun narrows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1912.
The whole park containing approximately 738 hectares (536 hectares of upland and 202 hectares of foreshore).
Clayoquot arm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1907; except The roads adjacent to the westerly boundary of the park in tree farm Licence 54 under road permit no. ro7674.
The whole park containing approximately 3 491 hectares.
Clayoquot plateau park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1907.
The whole park containing approximately 3 132 hectares (3 125 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Clendinning park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1803.
The whole park containing approximately 30 330 hectares.
Close-to-the-edge park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 35 tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 414 hectares.
Codville lagoon marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1970.
The whole park containing approximately 867 hectares (520 hectares of upland and 347 hectares of foreshore).
Cody caves park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1907.
The whole park containing approximately 49 hectares.
Coldwater river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1945.
The whole park containing approximately 69 hectares.
Collinson point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in galiano island, cowichan District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Lots a and b, district lot 8, vip 75577; The whole park containing approximately 23.68 hectares.
Columbia lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1902; except Lot 1, plan 3043.
The whole park containing approximately 290 hectares (275 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).
Conkle lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2017.
The whole park containing approximately 725 hectares.
Copeland islands marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point in the strait of georgia lying 152.5 metres (500 Feet) due south of triangulation station "cope", being marked with a Brass cap numbered 82h4765 and located in the vicinity of the most Southerly point of district lot 1422; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 60° a distance of 2.10 Kilometres to a point in thulin passage, at the southerly entrance of Thulin passage; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 330° a distance of 5.30 Kilometres to a point in the strait of georgia lying off turner bay; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 240° a distance of 503 metres; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 150° a distance of 2.0 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 240° a distance of 603.5 Metres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 150° a distance of 2.10 Kilometres;
Thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point in the strait of Georgia lying 152.5 metres due south of triangulation station "cope", Being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 423 hectares (145 hectares of upland and 278 hectares of foreshore).
Coquihalla canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly, commencing at the southwest corner of legal subdivision 13 of Section 6, township 5, range 25, w6m; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of legal subdivision 13 to The middle line of coquihalla river; Thence in general westerly and northwesterly directions along the middle Line of coquihalla river to the southerly production of the westerly Boundary of the southeast 1/4 of section 12, township 5, range 26, w6m; Thence northerly to and along the westerly boundary of the southeast 1/4 Of section 12 to the northwest corner of section 12; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the southeast 1/4 of Section 12 to the westerly boundary of parcel n of canadian pacific Railway plan a152; Thence in general northerly and northeasterly directions along the Westerly and northwesterly boundaries of plan a152 to the easterly Boundary of legal subdivision 9 of section 12, township 5, range 26, W6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 9 to The right bank natural boundary of coquihalla river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of coquihalla river to the southerly boundary of legal Subdivision 9;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of legal subdivision 9 to The left bank natural boundary of coquihalla river; Thence northeasterly along the left bank natural boundary of coquihalla River to the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of legal subdivision 12 Of section 7, township 5, range 25, w6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of section 12 to the westerly boundary of coquihalla highway, plan 36646; Thence in general southerly and southeasterly directions along the Westerly and southwesterly boundaries of plan 36646 to the easterly Boundary of legal subdivision 4 of section 7, township 5, range 25, w6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 4 of Section 7 and continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of legal Subdivision 13 of section 6, township 5, range 25, w6m to the Northwesterly boundary of hope-princeton highway, plan 37730; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of plan 37730 to The southerly boundary of legal subdivision 13 of section 6, township 5, Range 25, w6m; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of legal subdivision 13 to The southwest corner of legal subdivision 13, being the point of Commencement.
Secondly: the east 1/2 of legal subdivision 16, section 12 as shown on a Plan of said township dated at ottawa the 11th of february, 1919:
Township 5, range 26, west of the 6th meridian, kamloops division, yale District.
Thirdly: that part of the fractional east 1/2 of legal subdivision 9 of Section 12 lying to the north and west of the kettle valley railway Right of way plan a152 as shown on a plan of said township dated at Ottawa the 11th of february, 1919: township 5, range 26, west of the 6th Meridian, kamloops division, yale district.
Fourthly: plan a152, that part of fractional legal subdivision 9, Section 12, township 5, range 26, west of the 6th meridian, yale Division, yale land lying between the kettle valley railway right of way Plan a152 and the coquihalla river shown on plan of the southeast 1/4 of Said township.
The whole park containing approximately 159 hectares.
Cormorant channel marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1898.
The whole park containing approximately 775 hectares (245 hectares of upland and 530 hectares of foreshore).
Coste rocks park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1887.
The whole park containing approximately 29 hectares (1 hectare of Upland and 28 hectares of foreshore).
Cottonwood river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 8590.
The whole park containing approximately 66 hectares.
Crooked river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1846; except (1) the british columbia railway right of way as shown on plan cg 2264; (2) davie lake forest road, project 7719.03; and (3) john hart highway Right of way as shown on plans h 181 and 34934.
The whole park containing approximately 963 hectares.
Crowsnest park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1 of district lot 4588, plan 4240, except plan 7204.
The whole park containing approximately 46.11 hectares.
Cultus lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 2, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1999; except (1) a 50 foot (15.24 metre) right of way centred On lindell avenue as shown on subdivision plan 8335, section 15, Township 22; (2) all land on which a provincial public undertaking, as Defined in the Transportation act , related to columbia valley road is located; and (3) a 20 metre right Of way centred on edmeston road.
The whole park containing approximately 2 729 hectares.
Cummins lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1841.
The whole park containing approximately 21 812 hectares.
Dala-kildala rivers estuaries park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1887; Except (1) "thala" (kildala) indian reserve no. 4; (2) district lot 3130; (3) district lot 3131; and (4) district lot 3082.
The whole park containing approximately 741 hectares (111 hectares of upland and 630 hectares of foreshore).
Darke lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 1378; Thence due west a distance of 804.67 metres; Thence due south a distance of approximately 4 968.42 metres to a point Lying due west of the southwest corner of district lot 3761; Thence due east to the southwest corner district lot 3761; Thence in a northerly then easterly then southerly direction along the Westerly, northerly and easterly boundaries of district lot 3761 to the Southeast corner of district lot 3761; Thence due east a distance of approximately 1 106.42 metres to a point Lying due south of the southeast corner of district lot 3924; Thence due north to the southeast corner of district lot 3924; Thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of district lots 3924, 3923 and 1379 to a point lying due east of the northeast corner of District lot 1378; Thence due west to the northeast corner of district lot 1378; Thence westerly along the north boundary of district lot 1378 to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 1 470 hectares.
Davis lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in township 4, range 2, W7m, new westminster district and contained within the following Described boundaries:
Fractional legal subdivisions 9, 10, 14, 15 and 16 of section 8.
Fractional legal subdivisions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 11 of section 17.
The fractional west 1/2 of legal subdivision 1, the south 1/2 of legal Subdivision 12 and the northeast 1/4 of legal subdivision 12 of section 17.
The whole park containing approximately 192 hectares.
Dawley passage park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 1163; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1163 a Distance of approximately 300 metres to the easterly watershed boundary Of dawley passage; Thence in a general northeasterly and northwesterly direction along the Easterly watershed boundary of dawley passage to a point lying due north 940 metres and due west approximately 690 metres from the northeast Corner of district lot 1163; Thence in a northwesterly direction on a bearing of 322° a distance of 607 metres; Thence in a southwesterly direction on a bearing of 265° a distance of 240 metres; Thence in a southwesterly direction on a bearing of 215° a distance of 568 metres; Thence in a southwesterly direction on a bearing of 233° a distance of 752 metres; Thence in a southeasterly direction on a bearing of 154° a distance of Approximately 520 metres to a point lying due west of the northwest Corner of district lot 1163; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 1163, being the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 154.1 hectares (61.6 hectares of upland and 92.5 hectares of foreshore).
Desolation sound marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 4186, being a point On the southeasterly shore natural boundary of homfray channel; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 4186 to the Southeast corner of district lot 4186; Thence due east to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of the Unnamed creek which flows northwesterly into homfray channel passing Through the northeasterly portion of district lot 4186; Thence southeasterly along the watershed boundary of the unnamed creek To its intersection with the northwesterly boundary of the watershed of Theodosia river; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundaries of the Watersheds of theodosia river and theodosia inlet to the northerly Boundary of district lot 4926; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 4926 to the southeast corner of district lot 4926, being a point on the natural boundary of theodosia inlet; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 280° a distance Of 1.6 kilometres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 185° a distance Of 3.2 kilometres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 240° a distance Of 1.6 kilometres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 298° a distance Of 2.0 kilometres; Thence due west to a point due north of the most easterly northeast Corner of district lot 1476; Thence due south to the northeast corner of district lot 1476, being a Point on the southwesterly shore natural boundary of malaspina inlet; Thence southerly, westerly, northerly and easterly along the easterly, Southerly, westerly, and northerly boundaries of district lot 1476 to The most northerly northeast corner of district lot 1476, being a point On the natural boundary of malaspina inlet; Thence due north a distance of 810 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 320° a distance Of 3.2 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 810 metres; Thence due east a distance of 2.4 kilometres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 60° a distance Of 4.1 kilometres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 322° a distance Of 2.75 kilometres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 20° a distance Of 3.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point lying 400 metres due North of the northeast corner of district lot 4186; Thence due south to the northeast corner of district lot 4186, being a Point on the southeasterly shore natural boundary of homfray channel, And being also the point of commencement; Except (1) "kahkaykay" indian reserve no. 6; and (2) district lots 518, 1474, 2839, 4184, 4186, 4600, and 4933.
The whole park containing approximately 8 449 hectares.
Diana lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the southerly limit of the highway 16 right of Way, being the intersection of the southerly limit of the highway 16 Right of way with the westerly boundary of district lot 972, as shown on Plan 7138;
Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 972 a Distance of 66 metres; Thence north 68°05'35" east to the southerly limit of the highway 16 Right of way; Thence southeasterly along the southerly limit of the highway 16 right Of way a distance of 33 metres; Thence south 68°05'35" west to a point on the westerly boundary of District lot 972; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 972 to the Southwesterly corner of district lot 972; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 972 a Distance of 457 metres; Thence south 11° west a distance of approximately 2 210 metres to the Natural boundary of diana lake; Thence northwesterly, southwesterly and southerly along the natural Boundary of diana lake to its intersection with the southerly boundary Of district lot 2226; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of district lot 2226 and The westerly prolongation of the southerly boundary of district lot 2226, a total distance of 457 metres; Thence due north approximately 1 615 metres to a point on the northerly Boundary of district lot 2228; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 2228 to the Northeasterly corner of district lot 2228; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 233 hectares.
Dionisio point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in galiano island, cowichan District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1899.
The whole park containing approximately 141 hectares.
Discovery island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in victoria district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1901.
The whole park containing approximately 67 hectares.
Dixie cove marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 23 tube 1914; except (1) the crown land that is the subject of licence of occupation, land And water british columbia inc. file 1406671; and (2) woodlot licence W1613.
The whole park containing approximately 164 hectares (113 hectares of upland and 51 hectares of foreshore).
Downing park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 19 tube 1919; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of transportation's Pavilion-clinton road, cariboo district road no. 11, a section 42 Transportation act Highway; and (2) british columbia railway right of way shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 ry172 and Shown on land title plan a 179 as district lot 4572.
The whole park containing approximately 139 hectares (96 hectares of upland and 43 hectares of foreshore).
Drewry point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 34 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 26 hectares.
Driftwood canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1, section 13, township 2a.
Block a, section 12, township 2a.
That portion of driftwood creek shown on crown grant map 1324/484 Contained within lot 1, section 13, township 2a, plan 4806, and lying Outside of the road right of way designated by survey.
The whole park containing approximately 23 hectares.
Drumbeg park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in gabriola island, nanaimo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 40 Tube 1899.
The whole park containing approximately 56 hectares (21 hectares of upland and 35 hectares of foreshore).
Dry gulch park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 35 tube 1802; except a 20 metre right of way centred on dry gulch campsite road.
The whole park containing approximately 29 hectares.
Duffey lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1990; except The crown land that is the subject of duffey lake road, highway district Plan 26-99-403.
The whole park containing approximately 4 048 hectares.
Dune za keyih park [a.k.a. frog-gataga park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Cassiar district contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1880; except (1) mineral claim "chodi 1" 384009; and (2) Mineral claim "chodi 3" 384011.
The whole park containing approximately 330 774 hectares.
Eagle bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1887.
The whole park containing approximately 262 hectares (196 hectares of upland and 66 hectares of foreshore).
Eakin creek canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 22 Tube 1780.
The whole park containing approximately 10 hectares.
Eakin creek floodplain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 23 Tube 1780; except (1) mineral claim "luc 4" 218172; (2) mineral Claim "luc 6" 218174; (3) mineral claim "luc 8" 218176; and (4) eakin Creek road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway, identified on the highway road register as road 1071.
The whole park containing approximately 123 hectares.
East pine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 1470 except the crown land that is the subject of plans 11758, 13656 and a 1818.
Lots 1 to 9 of district lot 1470, plan 11758.
Lots 10 to 15 of district lot 1469, plan 11758.
The unnamed road on plan 11758 generally described as lying north and West of a line which joins the most easterly point of lot 14, plan 11758, and the most southerly point of lot 15, plan 11758.
That part of lot 16 of district lot 1471, plan 3973 lying south of plan A1818.
The whole park containing approximately 14.2 hectares.
[ E. c. manning park.
Description repealed 2012-32-1.] Echo bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at a point on the high water mark on the eastern Shore of echo bay, gilford island, lying 50.29 metres north and Approximately 15.24 metres east of the northwest corner of lot 1863; Thence east 73.15 metres; Thence south approximately 50.29 metres to the northerly boundary of lot 1863; Thence west along northerly boundary to the high water mark of echo bay; Thence northeasterly along high water mark of echo bay to the point of Commencement.
Secondly: the foreshore described as commencing at the northwest corner Of lot 1863; Thence north 50° west 97.5 metres; Thence north 40° east 60.9 metres; Thence south 50° east approximately 54.8 metres to a point on the high Water mark on the eastern shore of echo bay, gilford island; Thence southerly along the high water mark on the eastern shore of echo Bay, gilford island, to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 1.5 hectares.
Echo lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 219 hectares.
Ed bird – estella lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1873; except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' road finlay-russel No. 7829-00.
The whole park containing approximately 5 568 hectares.
[ Elk falls park.
Description repealed 2021-28-2.] Elk lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1927.
The whole park containing approximately 18 006 hectares.
Elk valley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1 of lot 4588, plan 4241.
The whole park containing approximately 81 hectares.
Ellison park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 1913; except eastside road as shown on plan epp94824.
The whole park containing approximately 220 hectares.
Emar lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1783.
The whole park containing approximately 1 618 hectares.
Emory creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1903.
The whole park containing approximately 29 hectares (15 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Eneas lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point lying 3.18 kilometres due west and 301.8 metres Due south of the northwest corner of district lot 1378; Thence due north a distance of 3.22 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 3.22 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 3.22 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of approximately 3.22 kilometres to the point Of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 1 036 hectares.
English lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and kootenay district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 14 tube 1877.
The whole park containing approximately 337 hectares.
Englishman river falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanoose district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1908.
The whole park containing approximately 97 hectares.
Entiako park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1978; Except mineral claim "cap" 238045.
The whole park containing approximately 126 023 hectares.
Epsom park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 27 Tube 1779; except the canadian national railway right of way, as Shown on plan a462 on deposit in the kamloops land title office.
The whole park containing approximately 74 hectares.
Erg mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1831.
The whole park containing approximately 1 011 hectares.
Erie creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1904.
The whole park containing approximately 15 hectares.
Eskers park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1847.
The whole park containing approximately 4 044 hectares.
Ethel f. wilson memorial park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1904; Except a 20 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' road no.
7697-00.
The whole park containing approximately 33 hectares (27 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Evanoff park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1836.
The whole park containing approximately 1 473 hectares.
Exchamsiks river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1887.
The whole park containing approximately 20 hectares.
F. h. barber park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of the fractional north 1/2 of the southwest quarter of Section 19, township 4, range 27, w6m, lying to the east of the fraser River and to the west of plan a718.
That part of the south 1/2 of the southwest quarter of section 19, Township 4, range 27, w6m, bounded on the west by the left bank of the Fraser river and the west boundary of the southwest quarter of section 19, township 4, range 27, w6m and on the east by the west boundary of Plan 25402ak.
That part of the north 1/2 of legal subdivision 13 of section 18, Township 4, range 27, w6m, lying to the west of plan a714.
That part of legal subdivision 16 of section 13, township 4, range 28, W6m, lying to the east of the east bank of a certain surveyed slough and To the west of plan a714.
That part of legal subdivision 1 of section 24, township 4, range 28, W6m, lying east of a certain surveyed slough and west of plan a714.
Those portions of fractional legal subdivision 11 of section 19, Township 4, range 27, w6m, lying to the northwest of plan a718, except That part lying north of the most northerly channel of wahleach creek.
The whole park containing approximately 8.5 hectares.
Fillongley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in denman island, nanaimo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1929.
The whole park containing approximately 26 hectares.
Finlay-russel park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1902.
The whole park containing approximately 109 214 hectares.
Finn creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 380 hectares.
Fintry park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 2016.
The whole park containing approximately 357 hectares.
Flores island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point lying due north 530 metres and due west 630 metres From the northeast corner of district lot 1373, and being a point on the Easterly shore natural boundary of sydney inlet; Thence due east a distance of 1.63 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 147° a distance of 175 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 159° a distance of 600 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 151° a distance of 340 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 142° a distance of 815 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125° a distance of 205 metres; Thence due east a distance of 815 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125° a distance of 190 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 149° a distance of 375 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 136° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 172° a distance of 1.20 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 242° a distance of 895 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 225° a distance of 195 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 219° a distance of 705 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 238° a distance of 675 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 188° a distance of 140 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 141° a distance of 510 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 130° a distance of 440 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 151° a distance of 175 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 188° a distance of 255 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 203° a distance of 1.30 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 178° a distance of 210 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 152° a distance of 275 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125° a distance of 350 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 139° a distance of 1.40 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 129° to the intersection with the Westerly boundary of district lot 1565; Thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of district Lot 1562;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1562 to the Northwest corner of district lot 1064; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1064 a Distance of 350 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 105° a distance of 655 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 120° a distance of 770 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 146° a distance of 1.10 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 161° a distance of 955 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 15° a distance of 695 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 194° to the southerly shore natural Boundary of flores island; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of flores island to the southwest corner of district lot 1370, being on The easterly boundary of gibson marine park; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 155° a distance of 1.30 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 235° a distance of 5.04 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 303° a distance of approximately 10.60 kilometres to a point lying due south 510 metres from rafael Point, and being a point parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly Distant from the westerly shore natural boundary of flores island; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 500 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Flores island to a point lying due north 40 metres and due west Approximately 1.68 kilometres from the northeast corner of district lot 1373; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly shore Natural boundary of sydney inlet lying due north 530 metres and due west Approximately 630 metres from the northeast corner of district lot 1373, Being the point of commencement; Except "tootoowiltena" indian reserve no. 28.
The whole park containing approximately 7 113.3 hectares (4 144.5 hectares of upland and 2 968.8 hectares of Foreshore).
Foch-gilttoyees park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 5 tube 1887; except (1) district lot 2576 "misgatlee" indian reserve no. 14; (2) district lot 2577 "giltoyees" Indian reserve no. 13; (3) crown granted mineral claim, district lot 2591; (4) district lot 2592, mineral claim no. 250452; (5) crown granted Mineral claim, district lot 2595; and (6) foch-gilttoyees protected area As shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 3 tube 1898.
The whole park containing approximately 61 089 hectares (58 338 hectares of upland and 2 751 hectares of Foreshore).
Fort george canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 40 tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 178 hectares.
Fossli park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1904.
The whole park containing approximately 52 hectares.
French beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1907.
The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.
Gabriola sands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in gabriola island, nanaimo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 19 Tube 1926.
The whole park containing approximately 6 hectares (2 hectares Of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Garden bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of district lot 3677, group 1 lying to the south and West of garden bay road.
Secondly: all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new Westminster district and contained within the following described Boundaries: commencing at the southwest corner of parcel "a" (reference Plan 2998) of district lot 2226, being a point on the northerly shore Natural boundary of garden bay; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of parcel "a" and Continuing northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 3991 a Distance of 201.2 metres; Thence due east to the easterly boundary of district lot 3991; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 3991 to the Northeast corner of district lot 3991; Thence due east a distance of 804.7 metres; Thence due north to the southerly boundary of district lot 4336; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 4336 to the Northwest corner of district lot 419; Thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 419 to a point on the southerly boundary Lying due north of the northwest corner of district lot 5359; Thence due south to the northwest corner of district lot 5359 and Continuing southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 5359 to The northerly boundary of district lot 3990; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 3990 to the Northeast corner of block b of district lot 3990, being a point on the Northerly boundary of district lot 3990; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of block b of district lot 3990 a distance of 201.2 metres; Thence due west to the easterly boundary of district lot 2226; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 2226 to the northeast corner of parcel "a" (reference plan 2998) of district lot 2226; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of parcel "a" to the Southeast corner of parcel "a" (reference plan 2998), being a point on The northerly shore natural boundary of garden bay; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 209° a distance Of 141 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 299° a distance Of 362 metres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the southwest corner of Parcel "a" (reference plan 2998) of district lot 2226, being a point on The southerly shore natural boundary of garden bay, and being the point Of commencement; Except "sawquamain" indian reserve no. 19a and the b.c. hydro right of Way as shown on reference plan 6245.
The whole park containing approximately 163 hectares (158 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).
Garibaldi park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And lillooet district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 188 667 hectares.
Gerald island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanoose district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 55-g.
The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.
Gibson marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1808.
The whole park containing approximately 143 hectares.
Gilnockie park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the left bank of gilnockie creek lying 2.5 Kilometres due north and approximately 200 metres due east from the Junction of the left bank natural boundaries of ward and gilnockie Creeks;
Thence southerly along the left bank of gilnockie creek to a point lying 1.74 kilometres due north and approximately 40 metres due east from the Junction of ward and gilnockie creeks; Thence due west to the westerly boundary of the watershed of gilnockie Creek;
Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of Gilnockie creek to a point lying 3.46 kilometres due east and Approximately 1.05 kilometres due south of the junction of the right Bank natural boundaries of norge creek and yahk river; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 335° a distance Of approximately 145 metres to the left bank natural boundary of an Unnamed creek, at the headwaters, that flows in a general easterly Direction into gilnockie creek; Thence easterly along the natural boundary of an unnamed creek to the Right bank natural boundary of gilnockie creek; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 111° a distance Of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 174° a distance Of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 127° a distance Of approximately 1.2 kilometres to the intersection of the 5 400 foot (1 646 metre) contour with the height of land immediately east of the Mainstream of gilnockie creek; Thence southerly along the height of land immediately east of the Mainstream of gilnockie creek produced to the left bank natural boundary Of an unnamed creek, with the unnamed creek flowing westerly into Gilnockie creek at a point lying 2.5 kilometres due north and Approximately 200 metres due east of the junction of the left bank Natural boundaries of ward and gilnockie creeks; Thence westerly along the left bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek To the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 2 842.2 hectares.
Gitnadoiks river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1886.
The whole park containing approximately 57 698 hectares.
Goat range park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1977; except (1) the balfour-kaslo-galena bay highway no. 31 as shown on plan 674p; (2) bridge street as shown on plan 892; (3) those parts of district lot 5704 shown as road on plans epp68064, epp75369, epp75370 and epp75371; (4) that part of district lot 17191 shown as road on plan epp80429; (5) That part of district lot 189 shown as road on plan epp68063; (6) the Part of 3rd street plan 892 lying south of lot a plan 892; (7) the part Of 1st street plan 892 lying north of that part of district lot 5704 Shown as road on plan epp68064 and south of that part of district lot 5704 shown as road on plan epp75369; (8) the part of riverside avenue Plan 892 lying north of that part of district lot 17191 shown as road on Plan epp80429 and south of both bridge street plan 892 and that part of District lot 5704 shown as road on plan epp68064; (9) the forest service Roads craig creek fsr 8432, healy creek fsr 7051 and hope creek Fsr 9600.
The whole park containing approximately 79 123 hectares.
Golden ears park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the intersection of the easterly shore natural Boundary of pitt lake with the northeasterly boundary of district lot 5579, being mineral claim "pioneer"; Thence southeasterly and southwesterly along the northeasterly and Southeasterly boundaries of district lot 5579 to the most northerly Corner of district lot 3177, being mineral claim "viking"; Thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of district lot 3177 to the intersection with the northerly boundary of district lot 7074; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 7074 to the Northeast corner of district lot 7074; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 7074 to the most southerly southwest corner Of district lot 7074, being a point on the easterly boundary of district Lot 6110;
Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 6110 to the most southerly southeast corner Of district lot 6110; Thence southerly in a straight line to the northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of section 27, township 12, ecm; Thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly And easterly boundaries of the northeast 1/4 of section 27 to the Northeast corner of section 27; Thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of section 26, township 12, ecm; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of section 26 to the right Bank natural boundary of alouette river; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of alouette river to the intersection with the southerly Boundary of fractional section 32, township 3, range 4, w7m; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of fractional section 32 to The southeast corner of the west 1/2 of fractional section 32; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of Fractional section 32 to the northeast corner of fractional section 32; Thence due north a distance of 402.4 metres; Thence due east a distance of 402.4 metres; Thence due north a distance of 201.2 metres; Thence due east to the westerly boundary of the southwest 1/4 of section 4, township 4, range 4, w7m; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the southwest 1/4 of Section 4 to the northwest corner thereof; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the southwest 1/4 of Section 4 a distance of 402.4 metres; Thence due north a distance of 402.4 metres; Thence due east a distance of 402.4 metres; Thence due north to the southerly boundary of district lot 5423; Thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the southerly, westerly And northerly boundaries of district lot 5423 to the westerly shore Natural boundary of alouette lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the westerly shore Natural boundary of alouette lake to the easterly boundary of section 15, township 5, range 3, w7m; Thence north to utm north 5474638 metres east 549441 metres; Thence east to the natural boundary of stave lake at utm north 5474838 Metres;
Thence northerly and easterly along the natural boundary of stave lake To its intersection with the east boundary of section 1, township 6, Range 3, w7m; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of section 1 and the Westerly boundary of section 7, township 6, range 2, w7m to the Northwest corner of the section 7; Thence north to the middle thread of the stave river at utm east 552625 Metres;
Thence northerly along the middle thread of the stave river to utm north 5487320 metres; Thence to utm north 5487297 metres east 549359 metres; Thence to utm north 5488504 metres east 549350 metres; Thence to utm north 5488895 metres east 547737 metres; Thence to utm north 5489297 metres east 547735 metres; Thence to utm north 5489297 metres east 547503 metres; Thence to utm north 5489700 metres east 542373 metres; Thence to utm north 5493920 metres east 542373 metres; Thence to utm north 5493920 metres east 538553 metres; Thence to utm north 5504062 metres east 538553 metres; Thence to utm north 5504062 metres east 543450 metres; Thence to utm north 5508927 metres east 543396 metres; Thence to utm north 5508935 metres east 545052 metres; Thence north to the southeast corner of garibaldi park; Thence west along the southerly boundary of garibaldi park a distance of 17.38 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 5.81 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 4.83 kilometres, of which the portion Crossing the natural boundary of corbold creek is surveyed under plan 14 Tube 1742 on file with the surveyor general of british columbia; Thence due south to the northerly boundary of the watershed of fish Hatchery creek; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of fish Hatchery creek a distance of approximately 2.1 kilometres to the summit Of an unnamed mountain (elevation 1 728 metres); Thence on a bearing of 184° a distance of 1.06 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 212° a distance of approximately 450 metres to The right bank natural boundary of fish hatchery creek; Thence southerly in a straight line a distance of approximately 1.25 Kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain, being a point on the Southerly boundary of the watershed of fish hatchery creek; Thence in general southeasterly, easterly and northeasterly directions Along the southerly boundary of the watershed of fish hatchery creek to A point lying due east of the northeast corner of district lot 4916; Thence due east a distance of 740 metres; Thence due south to a point lying due east of the northeast corner of District lot 2043; Thence due east to a point lying due north of the northwest corner of District lot 2109; Thence due south to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of District lot 3124; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 3124 and Continuing easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 3124 to The northeast corner of district lot 3124; Thence due east to a point lying due north of the northeast corner of District lot 2889; Thence due south to the northeast corner of district lot 2889; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 2889 to the most southerly southwest corner Of district lot 2889, being a point on the easterly boundary of section 20, township 6, range 4, w7m; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of section 20 to the theoretical southwest corner of section 20; Thence due south to the easterly shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly shore natural Boundary of pitt lake to the northwest corner of the north 1/2 of Fractional legal subdivision 3, section 8, township 6, range 4, w7m; Thence easterly, southerly and westerly along the northerly, easterly And southerly boundaries of the north 1/2 of fractional legal Subdivision 3 to the southwest corner of fractional legal subdivision 3, Being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly shore natural Boundary of pitt lake to the southwest corner of district lot 2722, Being mineral claim "silicon no. 2", with the southwest corner being Shown on plan 11861; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 2722 a Distance of 114.3 metres; Thence southeasterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 94°57' to the Easterly boundary of district lot 2722; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 2722 to the northeast corner of district lot 2724, being mineral claim "pitt fraction"; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 2724 to the Southeast corner of district lot 2724, being a point on the easterly Shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly shore natural Boundary of pitt lake to a point lying due west of lead plug no. 9 as Shown on the official plan of district lot 6530 on file with the Surveyor general of british columbia; Thence due east a distance of 165 metres; Thence due south a distance of 402.3 metres; Thence due west a distance of 402.3 metres; Thence due south a distance of approximately 402.3 metres to a point Lying due east of the northwest corner of the fractional northwest 1/4 Of section 29, township 5, range 4, w7m; Thence due west to the northwest corner of the fractional northwest 1/4 Of section 29, being a point on easterly shore natural boundary of pitt Lake;
Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly shore natural Boundary of pitt lake to the northwest corner of parcel "a" (reference Plan 17367) of the southwest 1/4 of section 12, township 5, range 5, W7m; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of parcel "a", reference plan 17367 to the northeast corner Of that portion of the southwest 1/4 of section 12, township 5, range 5, W7m, as shown on plan 23376; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of plan 23376 to the southwest corner of plan 23376, being a Point on the easterly shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Pitt lake to the northeast corner of district lot 5579, being the "pioneer" mineral claim, and the point of commencement; except block a, District lot 2722 and district lot 8028 as shown on crown land registry Plan 24 tube 1937.
Secondly: commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 5929, being A point on the easterly shore natural boundary of alouette lake; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 5929 to the Northeast corner of district lot 5423; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 5423 a Distance of 207.3 metres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 49°45' to the Southwesterly boundary of district lot 7226; Thence northwesterly along the southwesterly boundary of district lot 7226 to the most westerly corner of district lot 7226, being a point on The easterly shore natural boundary of alouette lake; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the easterly shore Natural boundary of alouette lake to the southwest corner of district Lot 5929, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 62 539 hectares.
Goldpan park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1908.
The whole park containing approximately 5.6 hectares (2.1 hectares of upland and 3.5 hectares of foreshore).
Goldstream park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in goldstream district, Highland district and malahat district and contained within the Described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1910; except (1) the british Columbia hydro right of way as shown on plan 2161 r/w; and (2) trans Canada highway no. 1 as shown on plans 671 r/w and 1000 r/w.
The whole park containing approximately 477 hectares (454 hectares of upland and 23 hectares of foreshore).
Gordon bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan lake district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lot a of section 15, plan 1501.
Section 19.
Secondly: that part of block 178 described as commencing at the Northeast corner of section 19, being a point on the high water mark on The south shore of cowichan lake; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of section 19, 201.2 Metres;
Thence due north 301.8 metres; Thence due east approximately 643.7 metres to the high water mark of Cowichan lake; Thence southerly and southwesterly along the high water mark of cowichan Lake to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: lot 1, section 37, plan vip82826.
The whole park containing approximately 104 hectares.
Great glacier park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1868.
The whole park containing approximately 9 313 hectares.
Green inlet marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1908.
The whole park containing approximately 33 hectares (15 hectares of upland and 18 hectares of foreshore).
Green lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Arrowhead site That part of district lot 3402 lying south of north bonaparte waggon Road.
The whole site containing approximately 2 hectares.
Black bear site Block b of district lot 3406.
The whole site containing approximately 5.3 hectares.
Blue spring site That part of district lot 3388 lying south of north bonaparte waggon Road.
The whole site containing approximately 4 hectares.
Boyd bay site Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of green lake lying 603.5 Metres due west and 221.28 metres due north of the southeast corner of District lot 1502, lillooet district; Thence due south a distance of 221.28 metres to the south boundary of District lot 1502; Thence easterly along the south boundary of district lot 1502 a distance Of 201.17 metres; Thence due north approximately 1 126.54 metres to the natural boundary Of green lake; Thence in a general westerly then southerly direction along the natural Boundary of green lake to the point of commencement, except plan cg480.
The whole site containing approximately 27 hectares.
Buckside hill site Block o of district lot 3794, except north bonaparte waggon road.
The whole site containing approximately 42 hectares.
Emerald bay site Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 1501; Thence westerly along the north boundary of district lot 1501 a distance Of 603.5 metres; Thence due south to the point of intersection of the natural boundary of Green lake, on the northerly shore of green inlet; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Green lake to the southeast corner of district lot 1501; Thence north along the east boundary of district lot 1501 to the Northeast corner, being the point of commencement, except north Bonaparte waggon road.
The whole site containing approximately 29 hectares.
Green lake islands site All crown islands situated in green lake, including: unnamed islands, Ant island, 1 mile island, twin islands, proposition island, sand Island, hat island and lot 3886.
The whole site containing approximately 119 hectares.
Little arrowhead site That part of district lot 3403 lying south of north bonaparte waggon Road.
The whole site containing approximately 3.2 hectares.
Nolan creek site Lot 54 of district lot 4540, plan 17200.
Lots 58 to 63 of district lot 4540, plan 18206 except a 20.12 metre Strip lying on either side of nolan creek.
The whole site containing approximately 2.4 hectares.
Sunset view site Commencing at the southeast corner of block a, lot 4630; Thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the easterly, northerly And westerly boundaries of block a, lot 4630, to the southwest corner Lot 4630;
Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of lot 4630 to the Southwest corner of lot 4630; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of lot 4630 to the Northwest corner of lot 4630, being a point on the southerly shore Natural boundary of green lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along natural boundary of Green lake to the northeast corner of lot 4544; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of lot 4544 to the Southeast corner of lot 4544; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of lot 4544 to the Southeast corner of block a, lot 4630, being the point of commencement, Except the subdivision access road through lots 4630 and 4544, Commencing at the most westerly terminus of the road shown on plan 17199 And terminating at the most easterly terminus of the road shown on plan 17200.
The whole site containing approximately 113 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 346.9 hectares.
Grohman narrows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1908.
The whole park containing approximately 10 hectares.
Gwillim lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1846; except (1) highway 29, plan 32141; and (2) petroleum and natural gas tenures 13187, 41875 and 42081.
The whole park containing approximately 32 326 hectares.
Hai lake – mount herman park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1887.
The whole park containing approximately 323 hectares.
Halkett bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1914.
The whole park containing approximately 448 hectares (293 hectares of upland and 155 hectares of foreshore).
Hamber park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1913.
The whole park containing approximately 25 137 hectares.
Hardy island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1915.
The whole park containing approximately 14 hectares.
Harmony islands marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 2020.
The whole park containing approximately 46 hectares (10 hectares of upland and 36 hectares of foreshore).
Háthayim marine park [a.k.a. von donop marine park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cortes island, sayward District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 18 Tube 1919; except (1) block a of district lot 744; (2) subdivided District lot 1168 including dedicated 20 metre road right of way in District lot 747 as shown on plan 38607 and also shown on plan 9 Tube 1168 deposited in the crown land registry; and (3) ministry of Forests' recreation site designated as block a on file 900-2-3-3012.
The whole park containing approximately 1 291 hectares (1 039 hectares of upland and 252 hectares of foreshore).
Heather-dina lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1873; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on parsnip west forest service road, File no. 6143.0; and (2) ministry of forests' gravel pits 5 and 6 file No. 11250-32/6143.00.
The whole park containing approximately 5 786 hectares.
Helliwell park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of the fractional northeast 1/4 of section 8 shown Dedicated as park on plan 21814, and the south 1/2 of section 7 as shown Coloured red on plan attached to crown grant dd129208i, except that part In plan 18395, all on hornby island.
Secondly: section 35, (flora islet).
Thirdly: commencing at the most northerly point of savoie rocks, located In lambert channel; Thence southwest on a bearing of 225° a distance of 650 metres; Thence on a bearing of 125° a distance of 6.0 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 64° a distance of 10.0 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 304° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the natural boundary Of hornby island; Thence in a general southeasterly then westerly direction along the Natural boundary of hornby island to the point of intersection with the Westerly boundary of that part of the northeast 1/4 of section 8, shown On plan 21814 and designated as park; Thence on a bearing of approximately 197° a distance of approximately 1.475 kilometres to the most northerly point of nash banks; Thence on a bearing of approximately 244° a distance of approximately 3.750 kilometres to the most northerly point of heron rocks; Thence on a bearing of approximately 273° a distance of approximately 350 metres to the most northerly point of toby island; Thence due west 500 metres; Thence on a bearing of approximately 320° a distance of approximately 1.100 kilometres to the most southerly point of maude reef; Thence in a general northwesterly direction a distance of approximately 500 metres along the southwesterly boundary of maude reef to the most Northerly point; Thence on a bearing of approximately 317° a distance of approximately 1.4 kilometres to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 2 872 hectares (69 hectares of upland and 2 803 hectares of foreshore).
Hemer park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cedar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1919.
The whole park containing approximately 109 hectares (94 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).
Herald park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the east 1/2 of the northeast 1/2 of section 17, township 21, Range 9, w6m; Except access easement plan a2833 and the area lying west of access Easement plan a2833 and south and east of sunnybrae and canoe point Road.
Secondly: the fractional west 1/2 of section 16, township 21, range 9, W6m.
Thirdly: the crown land covered by water in kamloops division, yale District described as commencing at the northwest corner of lot 5597 Lying on the natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly 100 metres along the westerly boundary of lot 5597; Thence in a general southwesterly direction 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a point lying 100 Metres due south of the most southerly corner of the southwest 1/4 of Section 16, township 21, range 9, w6m, lying on the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence north in a straight line 100 metres to the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of shuswap lake to the northwest corner of lot 5597, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 79.1 hectares (65.6 hectares of upland and 13.5 hectares of foreshore).
Hesquiat lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most westerly northwest corner of district lot 666, Being on the easterly shore natural boundary of hesquiat lake; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 666 and Continuing due south a distance of approximately 1.10 kilometres to a Point lying due east of the headwaters of an unnamed creek flowing Southwesterly into hesquiat lake; Thence due west approximately 90 metres to the right bank natural Boundary of that unnamed creek; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the natural boundary Of that unnamed creek to the intersection with the easterly shore Natural boundary of hesquiat lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Hesquiat lake to the most westerly northwest corner of district lot 666, Being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 61.7 hectares.
Hesquiat peninsula park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at escalante point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Hesquiat peninsula lying due north 20 metres and due west approximately 1.68 kilometres from the northeast corner of the south 1/2 of section 30, township 2; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Hesquiat peninsula to the intersection with the northerly boundary of The south 1/2 of section 30; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary a distance of approximately 1.04 kilometres to the southwesterly boundary of the watershed of Escalante river (as established on trim digital elevation model 092e058); Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the southwesterly Boundary of the watershed of escalante river to the intersection with The northerly boundary of section 20; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of section 20 to a point Lying 800 metres due east of the northwest corner of section 20; Thence due south a distance of approximately 8.0 kilometres to a point Lying due east 800 metres from the northeast corner of section 30, Township 1;
Thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point of intersection with The westerly boundary of section 28, township 1, lying due west of the Northwest corner of "teahmit" indian reserve no. 3; Thence due east to the northwest corner of "teahmit" indian reserve no.
3; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 37° to the intersection with the Northerly boundary of section 35, township 1; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of sections 35 and 36 to The southwest corner of "maahpe" indian reserve no. 4; Thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of "maahpe" indian Reserve no. 4 and district lot 1598 to the northwest corner of the lot; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1598 to the Westerly limit of pacific forest products road right of way r01008, Section 38;
Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the westerly limit of Pacific forest products road right of way r01008, sections 38 and 18, to Utm north 5482729 metres in utm zone 9; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District lot 1146; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1146 to the Northwest corner of district lot 1146, being a point on the easterly Shore natural boundary of hesquiat harbour; Thence due west to a point lying parallel to and 500 metres Perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore natural boundary of Hesquiat harbour; Thence in a general northerly, westerly, southerly and westerly Direction along a line drawn parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of the hesquiat peninsula on the Easterly, southerly and westerly shores of hesquiat harbour, to a point Lying south of estevan point lighthouse; Thence due north to the southerly shore natural boundary of hesquiat Peninsula;
Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary Of hesquiat peninsula, on the westerly shore of hesquiat harbour, to the Southeast corner of "homais" indian reserve no. 2; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of "homais" indian reserve no. 2 to the southeast corner of Section 18a, township 1; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of section 18a to the Natural boundary of hesquiat peninsula, on the westerly shore of Hesquiat harbour; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Hesquiat peninsula, on the westerly shore of hesquiat harbour, to Escalante point, being the point of commencement; Except (1) "hesquiat" indian reserve no. 1; (2) "teahmit" indian reserve No. 3; (3) "maahpe" indian reserve no. 4; (4) the south 1/2 of Fractional section 11, township 1; and (5) the foreshore area defined by Commencing at utm north 5482806 metres east 687631 metres in utm zone 9, Thence clockwise to utm north 5482798 metres east 687523 metres, thence To utm north 5482760 metres east 687442 metres, thence to utm north 5482656 metres east 687413 metres, thence to utm north 5482486 metres East 687400 metres, thence to utm north 5482415 metres east 687272 Metres, thence to utm north 5482522 metres east 687140 metres, thence to Utm north 5482840 metres east 687319 metres, thence to utm north 5482938 Metres east 687417 metres, thence to utm north 5482960 metres east 687559 metres, thence to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 7 888 hectares (6 689 hectares of upland and 1 199 hectares of Foreshore).
High lakes basin park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1777.
The whole park containing approximately 570 hectares.
Homathko estuary park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 1535, being a point On the northeasterly natural boundary of waddington harbour; Thence southwesterly along the bed of waddington harbour on a bearing of 252° a distance of 2.20 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 328° a distance of approximately 1.35 kilometres To the left natural boundary of the main stream of homathko river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the left bank natural Boundary of the main stream of homathko river, and continuing in a General northerly direction along the left bank natural boundary of Homathko river to the most southerly corner of "homalco" indian reserve No. 2a, being district lot 1047; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of "homalco" indian reserve No. 2a a distance of 360 metres; Thence due east a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence on a bearing of 213° a distance of 760 metres; Thence due south a distance of 600 metres; Thence due east a distance of 1.16 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 138° a distance of approximately 980 metres to The northeasterly natural boundary of waddington harbour; Thence southeasterly along the northeasterly natural boundary of Waddington harbour to the northwest corner of district lot 1535, being The point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 450 hectares (234 hectares of upland and 216 hectares of foreshore).
Horsefly lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1914; except The road shown on plan 5 tube 1722 deposited in the crown land Registry.
The whole park containing approximately 186 hectares (157 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).
Hwsalu-utsum park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered in water, situated in helmcken district and Malahat district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Lot a, blocks 291 and 932, as shown on plan epp79926.
The whole park containing approximately 143 hectares.
Hyland river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly limit Of the right of way for the alaska highway with the high water mark on The left bank of hyland river; Thence easterly along the northerly limit of the right of way for the Alaska highway a distance of 611.73 metres; Thence north 25°10' west a distance of 441.96 metres; Thence south 64°50' west a distance of approximately 594.36 metres to The high water mark on the left bank of hyland river; Thence southerly following the high water mark on the left bank of Hyland river to the point of commencement; Except lot 6372.
Secondly: commencing at a point on the high water mark on the right bank Of hyland river, being the northeasterly corner of lot 6370; Thence south 60°41' west along the northerly boundaries of lots 6370 and 6369 to the northwesterly corner of lot 6369; Thence north 30° west a distance of 301.75 metres; Thence north 60°41' east a distance of approximately 313.94 metres to The high water mark on the right bank of hyland river; Thence southerly following the high water mark on the right bank of Hyland river to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 34 hectares.
Inkaneep park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 2002.
The whole park containing approximately 16 hectares.
Inland lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1913; Except ministry of forests' road permit ro 7100.
The whole park containing approximately 2 757 hectares.
Iskut river hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1867.
The whole park containing approximately 6 hectares.
Jackman flats park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 39 tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 615 hectares.
Jackson narrows marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1970.
The whole park containing approximately 67 hectares (38 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).
Jáji7em and kw'ulh marine park [a.k.a. sandy island marine park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1918.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
James chabot park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of district lot 267 shown on plan 1143 described as:
Lots 8 to 14 and lot 21 of block 22, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 3 and lots 5 to 32 of block 23, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 32 of block 24, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 31 of block 25, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 14 of block 26, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 9 and lots 16 to 26 of block 27, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 9 and lots 13 to 21 of block 28, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 8 and lots 13 to 20 of block 29, plan 1143; Lots 1 to 8 and lots 13 to 20 of block 30, plan 1143.
Secondly: the road rights of way shown on plan 1143 described as:
Third avenue and fourth avenue lying south of mulock road; Marion street, gordon street, cook street and lake street lying east of The canadian pacific railway right of way and west of third avenue; The "lanes" shown in blocks 23, 24, 25 and 26; Those parts of the "lanes" shown in blocks 27, 28, 29 and 30 lying east Of the canadian pacific railway right of way; That part of the "lane" in block 22 lying east of lots 8, 9 and 10, Block 22 and south of the easterly production of the northerly boundary Of lot 10.
That part of district lot 267 generally described as bounded on the west And north by plan 1143, on the east by plan 2139, and on the south by The natural boundary of windermere lake.
Thirdly: the unsurveyed foreshore and land covered by the water of Windermere lake described as commencing at the most southerly southwest Corner of assigned parcel "c" of plan 2139; Thence south 40°55' east to the point of intersection with the natural Boundary of windermere lake as shown on plan 1143; Thence south 40°55' east a distance of 100 metres; Thence southwesterly along a line parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of windermere lake to A point, being the point of intersection with the southerly production Of the west boundary of fourth avenue as shown on plan 1143; Thence northerly along southerly production of the west boundary of Fourth avenue to the natural boundary of windermere lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of windermere lake to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 14 hectares.
Jedediah island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1961; except Licence of occupation 109748, site a and site b, described on integrated Land management bureau, ministry of agriculture and lands, file 1406851.
The whole park containing approximately 603 hectares (293 hectares of upland and 310 hectares of foreshore).
Jewel lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 2018.
The whole park containing approximately 49 hectares.
Jimsmith lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1809.
The whole park containing approximately 13.7 hectares.
Joffre lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 34 tube 1894.
The whole park containing approximately 1 487 hectares.
Johnstone creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2018.
The whole park containing approximately 44 hectares.
Juan de fuca park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district, and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 158, except that part shown as road on plan 1786 Rw and on official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1047.
Secondly: district lot 710 except that part shown as road on plan 1786 Rw and on official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1047 and the foreshore fronting district lot 710 described as, Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 444, being a point on The natural boundary of port san juan; Thence due west 400 metres; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line parallel to 400 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of port san Juan to a point lying northwesterly on a bearing of 315° from the most Northerly point of district lot 710; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to the most northerly point of District lot 710; Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of District lot 710 to the northwest corner of district lot 444, being the Point of commencement.
District lot 448, except that part shown as road on plan 1786 rw and on Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1047.
District lot 108, except that part shown as road on plan 1786 rw and on Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1047.
District lot 109, including that part of district lot 109, shown Coloured red on plan in absolute fees parcel book 10, folio 375, no.
6459c and the foreshore fronting district lots 108 and 109 described as, Commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 108, being a point on The natural boundary of juan de fuca strait; Thence due south a distance of 100 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 225° a distance of approximately 350 metres to the point of intersection with a line that is parallel to And 400 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan De fuca strait; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan de Fuca strait to a point lying due south of the southeast corner of District lot 109; Thence to the southeast corner of district lot 109; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the southerly Boundaries of district lots 109 and 108 to the southwest corner of District lot 108, being the point of commencement.
District lots 110, 206, 815 and 204.
Thirdly: commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 250, being a Point on the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 250 to a Point lying 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary Of juan de fuca strait; Thence in a general westerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan De fuca strait to a point lying due west a distance of 795 metres and Due north a distance of approximately 370 metres from the southeast Corner of district lot 247; Thence due south crossing the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait And continuing due south along the bed of juan de fuca strait to a point Lying 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Juan de fuca strait; Thence in a general easterly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan De fuca strait to a point lying due south of the southeast corner of District lot 250; Thence due north to the southeast corner of district lot 250, being the Point of commencement.
Fourthly: district lot 189 including lot 'a', district lot 189, plan 15632, and shown on plan vip 70616.
Fifthly: commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 189, being a Point on the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 189 to a Point lying 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary Of juan de fuca strait; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Juan de fuca strait to a point lying 300 metres north of the northerly Boundary of district lot 446; Thence due east to a point lying 75 metres perpendicularly distant from The right bank natural boundary of loss creek; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 75 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Loss creek to the easterly boundary of district lot 563; Thence north 306 metres along the easterly boundary of district lot 563; Thence due east 705 metres; Thence due south to the left bank natural boundary of loss creek; Thence southwesterly to the intersection of the east boundary of dl 563 And the left bank natural boundary of loss creek; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 563 to a Point lying parallel to and 75 metres perpendicularly distant from the Left bank natural boundary of loss creek; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line parallel to and 75 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of loss Creek to the intersection with the easterly boundary of district lot 446; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 446 to a Point lying 75 metres perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural Boundary of loss creek; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 75 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Loss creek to a point lying 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of juan de fuca strait, said point lying due north 165 Metres and due east approximately 40 metres from the northwest corner of District lot 447; Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 150 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait To the westerly boundary of district lot 564; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 564 to the Natural boundary of juan de fuca strait; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary Of juan de fuca strait to the southeast corner of district lot 189, Being the point of commencement; Except a 16.76 metres (55 foot) right of way lying south of the left Bank of loss creek and east of the public road and a public road Identified as the west coast/renfrew road on parks plan 6-1-31 and dated October 1978.
Sixthly: block a, district lot 564 and block a, district lot 565 as Shown on plan epc1657 deposited in the crown land registry.
Block a, district lot 566, block a, district lot 567 and section 64, and Block b, section 64 as shown on plan epc1656 deposited in the crown land Registry.
Lot 'a' of district lots 568, 569 and 570 as shown on plan vip63205.
District lot 113 and that part of district lot 113, described as a 20.12 Metres (1 chain) strip measured from the high water mark.
Section 10, including lot 1, section 10, plan 16029; except (1) the west Coast road (highway no. 14) right of way; and (2) a 30 metre right of Way on timberwest road 30 ro5414.
District lot 114 and that part of district lot 114, described as a 20.12 Metres (1 chain) strip measured from the high water mark; except (1) the West coast road (highway no. 14) right of way; and (2) a 30 metre right Of way centred on timberwest road north main r05414.
Seventhly: commencing at the point of intersection of the left bank Natural boundary of lines creek and the northerly boundary of district Lot 564;
Thence northeasterly along the left bank natural boundary of lines creek To the intersection with the southerly boundary of the right of way of The west coast road, being highway no. 14; Thence northwesterly along the southerly boundary of the right of way of The west coast road a distance of approximately 100 metres to the Intersection with the left bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek Flowing southwesterly into juan de fuca strait; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of that unnamed creek to The intersection with the easterly boundary of district lot 564; Thence southerly and easterly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 564 to the intersection of the left bank Natural boundary of lines creek, being the point of commencement.
Eighthly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 567, being A point on the easterly boundary of district lot 566; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 566 to a Point lying 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary Of juan de fuca strait; Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 150 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait To the intersection with the northerly boundary of district lot 567; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 567 to the Northwest corner of district lot 567, being the point of commencement.
Ninthly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 113, being a Point on the easterly boundary of district lot 570; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 570 to a Point lying 150 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary Of juan de fuca strait; Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 150 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of juan de fuca strait To the intersection with the northerly boundary of district lot 113; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 113 to the Northwest corner of district lot 113, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 1 533 hectares (1 386 hectares of upland and 147 hectares of foreshore).
Juniper beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of section 14, township 21, range 33, W6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of section 14, township 21, Range 33, w6m to the northwest corner of the southwest 1/4 of section 13, township 21, range 33, w6m; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of the southwest 1/4 of section 13, township 21, range 33, W6m produced to the middle thread of the thompson river; Thence in a general westerly direction along the middle thread of the Thompson river to a point due south of the southeast corner of lot 584; Thence due north to the southeast corner of lot 584; Thence northerly along the east boundary of lot 584; Thence westerly to the westerly boundary of the east 1/2 of section 15, Township 21, range 33, w6m; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the east 1/2 of section 15, township 21, range 33, w6m to the northeast corner of the east 1/2 Of section 15, township 21, range 33, w6m; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of sections 15 and 14, Township 21, range 33, w6m to the northeast corner of section 14, Township 21, range 33, w6m, being the point of commencement; Except (1) canadian national railway plan b-337; (2) trans-canada Highway no. 1 / no. 97 as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 11 tube 582; and (3) "mauvais rocher" Indian reserve no. 5.
The whole park containing approximately 248 hectares.
Kakwa park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Peace river district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1981.
The whole park containing approximately 171 973 hectares.
Kekuli bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of lot 1 of sections 6 and 7, township 9, plan 29934 Lying south of highway no. 97, except (1) plan 31173; and (2) plan 37599.
Secondly: the unsurveyed foreshore described as commencing at the point Of intersection of the natural boundary of kalamalka lake and the Southeasterly production of the northerly boundary of plan 31173, having A bearing of south 50°48'50" east; Thence south 50°48'50" east a distance of 100 metres; Thence in a general easterly direction along a line parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant to the natural boundary of kalamalka lake To a point lying due south of the easterly boundary of the southwest 1/4 Of the southeast 1/4 of section 6, township 9; Thence due north to the point of intersection with the natural boundary Of kalamalka lake; Thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of Kalamalka lake to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: commencing at the point of intersection of the easterly Production of the north boundary of lot a, plan 37286 and the natural Boundary of kalamalka lake; Thence due east 100 metres; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of kalamalka Lake a distance of 174 metres; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the natural boundary Of kalamalka lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Kalamalka lake to the point of commencement, except plan a641.
The whole park containing approximately 57 hectares (52 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).
Kennedy lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1918.
The whole park containing approximately 241 hectares (165 hectares of upland and 76 hectares of foreshore).
Kennedy river bog park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point lying 501 metres north and approximately 882 Metres east from the northeast corner of lot 1423, also being on the Westerly limit of an unnamed road right of way intersecting the Northerly limit of the right of way of the kennedy river road at a point Lying 23 metres north and approximately 945 metres east from the Northeast corner of lot 1423; Thence due north to the left bank natural boundary of kennedy river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the left bank natural Boundary of the kennedy river to a point lying 78 metres west and Approximately 1.130 kilometres north from the northeast corner of lot 1423; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 269°30' a distance of approximately 239 metres to a point on the left bank natural boundary of kennedy river Lying 317 metres west and approximately 1.128 kilometres north from the Northeast corner of lot 1423; Thence in a general westerly direction along the left bank natural Boundary of kennedy river to a point lying 394 metres west and Approximately 1.122 kilometres north from the northeast corner of lot 1423; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 256°30' a distance of approximately 75 metres to a point on the left bank natural boundary of kennedy river Lying 467 metres west and approximately 1.104 kilometres north from the Northeast corner of lot 1423; Thence in a general westerly direction along the left bank natural Boundary of kennedy river to a point lying 86 metres east and Approximately 269 metres north from the northeast corner of lot 1497; Thence due south approximately 269 metres to the northerly limit of the Right of way of kennedy river road lying due east of the northeast Corner of lot 1497; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the northerly limit of The right of way of the kennedy river road to the intersection of the Westerly limit of the right of way of unnamed road; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly limit of the Right of way of that unnamed road to the point of commencement; Except sections 81 and 82, alberni district (situated in clayoquot District).
The whole park containing approximately 11 hectares.
Kentucky-alleyne park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1904; except road right of way shown on plan 4 tube 1516 Deposited in the crown land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 190 hectares (144 hectares of upland and 46 hectares of foreshore).
Keremeos columns park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Formerly osoyoos division, yale district and contained within the Following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of lot 2963; Thence due north 402.4 metres; Thence due east 503 metres; Thence due south approximately 402.4 metres to the northerly boundary of Lot 2963;
Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of lot 2963 to the Northwest corner of lot 2963, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 20 hectares.
Khutzeymateen park [a.k.a. khutzeymateen/k'tzim-a-deen grizzly sanctuary] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1970; Except (1) "carm creek" indian reserve no. 38, district lot 3969; (2) "kateen river" indian reserve no. 39, district lot 3968; and (3) "khutzeymateen" indian reserve no. 49, district lot 3966.
The whole park containing approximately 45 052 hectares (44 588 hectares of upland and 464 hectares of Foreshore).
Kickininee park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the north corner of lot 5099, being on the high water mark Of okanagan lake and the easterly limit of highway 97 right of way; Thence 201.2 metres northerly on a perpendicular to the high water mark Of okanagan lake; Thence following a line southerly 201.2 metres perpendicular distance From the high water mark of okanagan lake to a point 201.2 metres Perpendicular distance from the south corner of lot 5097 lying on the Easterly limit of highway 97 right of way; Thence northerly along the east side of highway 97 right of way to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 48.76 hectares (2.83 hectares of upland and 45.93 hectares of foreshore).
Kikomun creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Sublots 1, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15 and 16 of district lot 323, plan x-6; Those parts of sublots 2, 3, 6, 12 and 13 of district lot 323, plan x-6 Lying east of kootenay river; Sublot 7 of district lot 323, plan x-6, except that part of the north 1/2 lying to the west of the british columbia southern railway right of Way as shown on plan 524-c.13; Sublot 8, of district lot 323, plan x-6, except plans 8067 and 11331; Parcel a (see 126218l) of sublot 7, district lot 323, kootenay district Plan x-6.
The whole park containing approximately 699 hectares.
Kilby park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 2 of section 27, township 3, range 30, w6m, plan 22952; Lot 3 of section 22, township 3, range 30, w6m, plan 22952; The road, shown on plan 22952, lying west of the northerly production of The east boundary of lot 3 of plan 22952.
The whole park containing approximately 3 hectares.
Kinaskan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 4546, being a point On the southerly shore natural boundary of kinaskan lake; Thence easterly along the southerly shore natural boundary of kinaskan Lake to its intersection with the westerly boundary of stewart-cassiar (stewart watson lake) highway right of way, as shown on plan 2 tray 7 Prince rupert, sheets 46, 47 and 48 on file with the surveyor general of British columbia; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the westerly boundary Of stewart-cassiar (stewart watson lake) highway right of way to a point Lying 1 300 metres due south and approximately 650 metres due east of Triangulation station "knuts"; Thence due west to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 500 metres Perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of iskut River;
Thence northerly along a line drawn parallel to and 500 metres Perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of iskut River to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of district lot 6545; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 6545; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 6545 to the Southwest corner of district lot 6545, being a point on the right bank Natural boundary of iskut river; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of iskut river to a Point lying due west of the northwest corner of district lot 6545; Thence due east to the left bank natural boundary of iskut river; Thence easterly along the natural boundary of iskut river to the Northwest corner of district lot 6546, being a point on the natural Boundary of iskut river; Thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly And easterly boundaries of district lot 6546 to the northeast corner of District lot 6546, being a point on the southerly shore natural boundary Of kinaskan lake, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 1 800 hectares.
King george vi park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Sub lot 149, township 9-a, registered plan x-63.
The whole park containing approximately 161.88 hectares.
Kiskatinaw park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1838.
The fractional southeast 1/4 of section 27, township 80, range 17, w6m, Except the right of way of the alaska highway as shown on plan a938, and The proposed easement for the transmission of electrical energy as shown On plan 7t504.
The whole park containing approximately 58 hectares.
Kitimat river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1885.
The whole ecological reserve containing approximately 57 hectares (55 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Kitson island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point lying due north 100 metres from the most Northerly point on the natural boundary of kitson islet; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the most Northerly point on the natural boundary of kitson island, being district Lot 1257;
Thence in a general southwesterly, southerly, easterly and northeasterly Direction along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of kitson island to a point lying due East of the most easterly point on the natural boundary of kitson Island;
Thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point lying due east 100 Metres from the most easterly point on the natural boundary of kitson Islet;
Thence northwesterly in a straight line to a point lying due north 100 Metres from the most northerly point of the natural boundary of kitson Islet, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 44.7 hectares (20 hectares of upland and 24.7 hectares of foreshore).
Kitsumkalum park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 6733 lying on the Natural boundary of kitsumkalum lake; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 6733 to the Southeast corner of district lot 6733; Thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of district Lot 1400;
Thence southerly along the east boundary of district lot 1400 a distance Of 402.336 metres (20 chains); Thence due west approximately 764.438 metres (38 chains) to the natural Boundary of kitsumkalum river; Thence northerly along the natural boundary of kitsumkalum river and Then along the natural boundary of kitsumkalum lake to the point of Commencement;
Except the crown land that is the subject of number 3 kalum lake road (gazetted oct. 21, 1982) and area for acquisition both shown on ministry Of transportation's plan 52-3-3-b, dated july 13, 1983.
The whole park containing approximately 40 hectares.
Kitwanga mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 3951; Thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 3951 to the westerly boundary of district lot 1411; Thence northerly and easterly along the westerly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 1411 to a point on the northerly boundary of District lot 1411 lying due north of the northeast corner of district Lot 3950;
Thence due north a distance of 350 metres; Thence on a bearing of 300° a distance of 2.80 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 256° a distance of 1.55 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 152° a distance of 1.15 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 600 metres; Thence on a bearing of 130° a distance of 750 metres; Thence on a bearing of 110° to a point lying due north of the northeast Corner of district lot 2349; Thence due south to the northeast corner of district lot 2349; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 2349 to the Northwesterly boundary of district lot 1197, being the canadian national Railway right of way as shown on plan 1228; Thence northeasterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 1197 to the westerly boundary of district lot 2392; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 2392 to the Southwest corner of district lot 3951, being the point of commencement; Except cedarvale-kitwanga road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway, identified as road no. 17 on the highway road register.
The whole park containing approximately 720 hectares.
Kleanza creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 2011.
The whole park containing approximately 220 hectares.
[ Kledo creek park.
Description repealed 2006-15-33.] Klewnuggit inlet marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1971.
The whole park containing approximately 1 800 hectares (1 508 hectares of upland and 292 hectares of foreshore).
Kokanee creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 255, being a point on The natural boundary of the west arm of kootenay lake, on the northerly Shore of kootenay lake; Thence southeasterly in a straight line for a distance of 201 metres, Being drawn perpendicular to the general trend of the natural boundary Of the west arm of kootenay lake; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 184° a distance Of 966 metres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 249° a distance Of 1.01 kilometres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 315° a distance Of approximately 765 metres to the intersection with the southwesterly Prolongation of the southeasterly boundary of lot 5 of district lot 790, Plan 2628;
Thence northeasterly to and along the southeasterly boundary of lot 5, Plan 2628, to the most easterly corner of lot 5, plan 2628; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the most southerly corner of Lot 20 of district lot 790, plan 2628; Thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundaries of lots 20 and 32, plan 2628, and continuing northeasterly along the northeasterly Prolongation of the southeasterly boundary of lot 32, produced to the Northerly limit of southern trans-provincial highway no. 3 (nelson-balfour highway); Thence northwesterly along the northerly limit of southern Trans-provincial highway no. 3 to the southeast corner of parcel "a" (reference plan 103536-i) of lot 6 of district lot 790, plan 813, being A point on the northerly limit of southern trans-provincial highway no.
3; Thence northeasterly, northwesterly and southwesterly along the Southeasterly, northeasterly and northwesterly boundaries of parcel "a" (reference plan 103536-i) to the most southerly southwest corner of that Portion of lot 8 of district lots 790 and 791, shown on reference plan 46654i, lying to the west of kokanee creek; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of that part of lot 8 shown On reference plan 46654i to the northwest corner of lot 8, being a point On the southerly boundary of district lot 791; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly Boundaries of district lot 791 to the northwest corner of district lot 791; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of district lots 791 and 255 to the northeast corner of district lot 255; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 255 to the Southeast corner of district lot 255, being the point of commencement, Except public road no. 179, southern trans-provincial highway no. 3 and The power transmission line right of way as shown on plan rw 56.
The whole park containing approximately 260 hectares (171 hectares of upland and 89 hectares of foreshore).
Kokanee glacier park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the summit of blacktail mountain, being a point on the Northerly boundary of the watershed of blacktail creek; Thence northeasterly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Blacktail creek to the summit of nasokwen mountain, being a point; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the intersection of the left Bank natural boundary of keen creek with the southerly boundary of District lot 819; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of kyawats Mountain;
Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing 20° a distance of Approximately 2.2 kilometres to a point on the right bank natural Boundary of klawala creek lying due south of the most southerly point of District lot 14369, surveyed as the "spokane" mineral claim; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the summit of satisfaction Peak;
Thence northeasterly along the northeasterly prolongation of a straight Line drawn between the summits of kyawats mountain and satisfaction Peak, being produced to the right bank natural boundary of ben hur Creek;
Thence due east a distance of approximately 1.0 kilometre to the Easterly boundary of the watershed of ben hur creek; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the point where the easterly Boundary of the watershed of deer creek meets the southerly boundary of The watershed of kemp creek, lying 2.4 kilometres due south and Approximately 500 metres due west of the summit of mount kemp; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of kemp Creek to a point lying 1.90 kilometres due west and approximately 500 Metres due south of the summit of true blue mountain; Thence due south to the northerly boundary of the watershed of fletcher Creek;
Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Fletcher creek to a point lying due south of the summit of trafalgar Mountain;
Thence due south a distance of 800 metres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District lot 10058, surveyed as the "white eagle" mineral claim; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly Boundary of the watershed of pontiac creek lying due east of the Northeast corner of district lot 2261, surveyed as the "tecumsie" Mineral claim; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of pontiac creek to the northerly boundary of the Watershed of lendrum creek; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the northerly boundary Of the watershed of lendrum creek to a point lying 800 metres due west And approximately 300 metres due south of the southwest corner of District lot 9267, surveyed as the "grant" mineral claim; Thence due south to the northerly boundary of the watershed of cedar Creek;
Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the watershed of cedar creek to the northerly boundary of The watershed of an unnamed creek that is tributary to and that flows Southerly into coffee creek; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of the watershed of that unnamed creek produced to the left Bank natural boundary of coffee creek; Thence southerly in a straight line, crossing coffee creek, to the point Where the natural boundary of coffee creek meets the natural boundary of An unnamed creek that flows northerly into coffee creek, on the right Banks of coffee creek; Thence southerly along the right bank natural boundary of the unnamed Creek to the headwaters of the unnamed creek; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing 152° a distance of Approximately 400 metres to the southerly boundary of the watershed of That unnamed creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundaries of Those unnamed creeks, that are tributary to and that flow northerly into Coffee creek, to a point lying 1.92 kilometres due south and Approximately 4.45 kilometres due east of the southwest corner of District lot 11486; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to a point lying 600 metres due North and 1.3 kilometres due west of the southwest corner of district Lot 11486;
Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 227° a distance Of 350 metres; Thence due west a distance of approximately 6.95 kilometres to the Natural boundary of the first unnamed creek lying to the west of alpine Creek that flows northwesterly into lemon creek, on the left bank of Lemon creek; Thence northwesterly along the left bank natural boundary of that Unnamed creek to the left bank natural boundary of lemon creek; Thence due north to the right bank natural boundary of lemon creek; Thence easterly a distance of approximately 400 metres along the right Bank natural boundary of lemon creek to the right bank natural boundary Of the unnamed creek, with the unnamed creek being tributary to and Flowing southerly into lemon creek; Thence in a general northerly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of the unnamed creek to the headwaters of the unnamed creek; Thence due north a distance of approximately 350 metres to the easterly Boundary of the watershed of crusader creek; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of Crusader creek to the summit of mount ruppel, being a point; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the summit of mount robert Smith, being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of timber Creek;
Thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of Timber creek, produced to the point where the right bank natural Boundary of timber creek meets the left bank natural boundary of Enterprise creek; Thence northerly in a straight line on a bearing 1° a distance of Approximately 3.6 kilometres to the intersection of that straight line With a 6 000 foot (1 830 metre) contour on the fennell creek watershed, And with that contour being located near the headwaters of fennell Creek;
Thence northeasterly along that contour line to a point lying due west Of the summit of blacktail mountain; Thence due east to the summit of blacktail mountain, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 32 035.4 hectares.
Koksilah river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in helmcken district and Malahat district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1913.
The whole park containing approximately 230 hectares (229 hectares of upland and 1 hectare of foreshore).
Kootenay lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Campbell bay site District lot 7393, except a 20 metre ministry of forests' right of way Described as murphy creek road, project 7475.
The whole site containing approximately 25 hectares.
Coffee creek site District lot 185 except plans 58 r/w, 15244, coffee creek road (being a Ministry of forests' road project 125), the right of way described in D.d. 17306-d and highway no. 31 right of way (as shown on ministry of Transportation's drawing no. 2211).
The whole site containing approximately 52 hectares.
Davis creek site The land as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 5 tube 2024.
The whole site containing approximately 14 hectares.
Lost ledge site The land within district lot 896 and shown on plan 11178 described as Lot 1 and that part of the road allowance adjacent to lot 1 shown on Plan attached to ministry of crown lands' ministerial order m40016.
The whole site containing approximately 38 hectares.
Midge creek site Firstly: district lot 895, except right of way plan 1760.
Secondly: commencing at the intersection of the north boundary of District lot 895 and the natural boundary of kootenay lake; Thence east along the easterly prolongation of the north boundary of District lot 895 a distance of 281 metres; Thence south 2 010 metres to the point of intersection with the easterly Prolongation of the south boundary of district lot 895; Thence west along the easterly prolongation of the south boundary of District lot 895 a distance of approximately 160.8 metres to the natural Boundary of kootenay lake; Thence in a northerly direction along the elevation of the natural Boundary of kootenay lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 223 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares.
Kwadacha wilderness park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Cassiar district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1928.
The whole park containing approximately 130 279 hectares.
Lac la hache park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1908; except Right of way of cariboo highway no. 99, shown on ministry of Transportation's plan h-948.
The whole park containing approximately 28 hectares (23 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).
Lakelse lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2019.
The whole park containing approximately 350 hectares.
Lakelse lake wetlands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1886; Except (1) a 10 metre road right of way centred on the non-status road Accessing district lot 683 from the south and east; and (2) the railway Right of way shown on plan 2ry236.
The whole park containing approximately 1 214 hectares (1 105 hectares of upland and 109 hectares of foreshore).
Lanz and cox islands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1849.
The whole park containing approximately 5 556 hectares (1 950 hectares of upland and 3 606 hectares of Foreshore).
L
Áu,wel Ṉ
E
W̱
/john dean park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in north saanich district And south saanich district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Lot 1 of sections 1, 2 and 3, range 1 east, north saanich district, plan 13307.
Lot 2 of section 1, range 1 east, south saanich district, plan 13307.
Lot 3 of section 1, range 1 west, south saanich district, plan 13307.
Section 1, range 1, west, north saanich district.
Lots 1 and 2, section 1, range 2 west, north saanich district, plan 10164.
That part of section 1, range 2 west, north saanich district lying east Of plan 10164.
The southerly 91.4 metres of the westerly 121.9 metres of section 1, Range 1 east.
The road right of way, known as thompson road, within sections 1, 2 and 3 of range 1 east, north saanich district.
The road right of way, known as thompson road, within section 1 of range 1 west, north saanich district.
The road right of way, known as thompson road, within section 1 of range 1 east, south saanich district.
The road right of way, known as thompson road, within section 1 of range 1 west, south saanich district.
The whole park containing approximately 173 hectares.
Lava forks park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1868.
The whole park containing approximately 7 463 hectares.
Lawn point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1896.
The whole park containing approximately 594 hectares (521 hectares of upland and 73 hectares of foreshore).
Liard river hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1816.
The whole park containing approximately 1 082 hectares.
Little andrews bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1788.
The whole park containing approximately 102.1 hectares.
Little qualicum falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district, Cameron district and newcastle district and contained within the Following described boundaries Firstly: in alberni district and cameron district; District lot 17.
Secondly: in cameron district; District lot 16 together with blocks 400, 940 and 941.
Thirdly: in cameron district and newcastle district; Block 388.
Fourthly: in newcastle district; Parcel a of block 359, as shown on plan 182r together with that part of District lot 92 lying to the south and west of a straight line drawn Between post 13, set on the easterly boundary of parcel a and shown on Plan 182r, and post 8, set on the northerly boundary of block 388, Cameron district, as shown on plan and field notes of the survey of Block 388 on file with the surveyor general of british columbia.
The whole park containing approximately 440 hectares.
Lockhart beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 15516; except a 20.117 metre right of way centred On highway 3a.
Secondly: a 100 metre wide foreshore area fronting district lot 15516.
The whole park containing approximately 8 hectares (4 hectares Of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Lockhart creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 15727; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 15727 to the northwest corner of district lot 15727; Thence northerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of district Lot 14391, and continuing northerly along the easterly boundary of District lot 14391 to the southerly boundary of district lot 12834; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 12834 to the southerly boundary of district Lot 197;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 197 to the Southeast corner of district lot 197; Thence due east a distance of approximately 600 metres to the northerly Boundary of the watershed of lockhart creek; Thence in a general easterly, southerly and westerly direction along the Northerly, easterly and southerly boundaries of the watershed of Lockhart creek to a point on the southerly boundary of the watershed of Lockhart creek lying due east of the southeast corner of district lot 15727; Thence due west to the southeast corner of district lot 15727, being the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 3 750.6 hectares.
Loon lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 5.9 hectares.
Loveland bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of block "c" of lot 51, more particularly described as Commencing at a point on the high water mark on the easterly shore of Loveland bay of lower campbell lake lying 2 434.52 metres north and Approximately 1 710.2 metres west of the northwest corner of lot 93; Thence due east 160.96 metres; Thence due north 543.24 metres; Thence due west 804.8 metres; Thence due south 201.2 metres; Thence due west 201.2 metres; Thence due south 342.04 metres; Thence due east approximately 140.84 metres to the northwesterly shore Of loveland bay; Thence in a general northeasterly and southerly direction along the Shore to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
Lowe inlet marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1971; Except (1) "kumowdah" indian reserve no. 3; and (2) district lot 2.
The whole park containing approximately 765 hectares (555 hectares of upland and 210 hectares of foreshore).
Lower nimpkish park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the northeasterly corner of "otsawlas" indian Reserve no. 5, being a point on the right bank natural boundary of the Nimpkish river; Thence due north to a point on the middle line of the nimpkish river; Thence in a general northwesterly and southwesterly direction along that Middle line to a point lying due east of the northeast corner of District lot 1134; Thence due west to the northeast corner of district lot 1134; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1134, 300 Metres;
Thence on a bearing of 21° approximately 650 metres to a point lying 200 Metres perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural boundary of Nimpkish river; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Nimpkish river to a point lying due west from the easterly boundary of Section 28, township 15; Thence due north to a point lying 200 metres perpendicularly distant From the left bank natural boundary of nimpkish river; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Nimpkish river to the easterly boundary of section 33, township 15; Thence southerly along easterly boundary to the intersection with the Left bank natural boundary of nimpkish river; Thence due south to a point on the middle line of nimpkish river; Thence in general southerly and northerly directions along that middle Line to the intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly Boundary of section 34, township 15; Thence easterly along that prolongation and northerly boundary to the Intersection with the westerly boundary of district lot 1577; Thence southeasterly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1577 to The intersection with the easterly boundary of section 34; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of section 34 to the Intersection with the westerly boundary of district lot 1577; Thence in a southwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of District lot 1577 approximately 650 metres to a point lying 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of nimpkish River;
Thence in a general southerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Nimpkish river to the intersection with the westerly boundary of District lot 1577; Thence in a southeasterly and southwesterly direction along the westerly Boundary of district lot 1577 to the intersection with the easterly Boundary of "otsawlas" indian reserve no. 5; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of "otsawlas" indian Reserve no. 5 to the northeast corner of "otsawlas" indian reserve no.
5, being the point of commencement.
Secondly: all crown islands and islets within the natural boundaries of Nimpkish river lying north of the easterly prolongation of the northerly Boundary of district lot 1134 and south of the easterly prolongation of The northerly boundary of section 34, township 15.
The whole park containing approximately 200 hectares.
Lower skeena river park Exstew site All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1886.
The whole site containing approximately 188 hectares.
Kasiks river site All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1886.
The whole site containing approximately 394 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 582 hectares.
Lower tsitika river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1849.
The whole park containing approximately 3 745 hectares.
Mabel lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1902; except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests' lumby – mabel lake road, no. 1111-01.
The whole park containing approximately 193 hectares (173 hectares of upland and 20 hectares of foreshore).
Macmillan park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1962; except The right of way of highway no. 4, shown on plan 5 tube 696 Deposited in the crown land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 301 hectares.
Main lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district on Quadra island and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1913; except (1) the crown land that is the subject of the Crown granted mineral claim, district lot 1358; (2) the crown land that Is the subject of the crown granted mineral claim, district lot 1370; And (3) that part below the natural boundary of okisollo channel.
The whole park containing approximately 3 530 hectares.
Mansons landing park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 64 except (1) plan 2761 o.s; and (2) seaford road Right of way; and (3) that part of sutil road right of way lying south Of a line drawn due west from the point of intersection of the east Boundary of sutil road and the north boundary of seaford road as shown On srw plan 46391.
That part of district lot 64 known as lake road as shown on plan 2761 O.s.
Secondly: all that unencumbered crown foreshore and crown lands covered By tidal waters situated in the sayward district and more particularly Described as commencing at the southwesterly corner of lot 64, cortes Island, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of cortes Island;
Thence due west 241.44 metres; Thence north 30° east approximately 1.63 kilometres to a point on the Westerly shore natural boundary of cortes island; Thence southeasterly, southwesterly, northerly and southwesterly along The natural boundary of cortes island to the southwesterly corner of lot 64, being the point of commencement and containing approximately 53 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 100.3 hectares.
Mara park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 39 Tube 1899.
The whole park containing approximately 13 hectares (7 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
[ Marble canyon park . description repealed 2010-13-3.] Marl creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in township 29, range 23, W5m, kootenay district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
The fractional south 1/2 of section 29, including river islands.
The fractional northwest 1/4 of section 20.
The 0.04 hectare portion of island no. 2 contained within legal Subdivision no. 8 of section 20.
Except the crown land that is the subject of the canadian pacific Railway right of way, as shown on plans 633 and 9113, within the Northwest 1/4 of section 20.
The gazetted road right of way, as per road survey 1818, within the South 1/2 of section 29.
The whole park containing approximately 167 hectares.
Martha creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point of intersection of the westerly boundary of Nakusp-mica creek highway 23, plan 17891, with a line drawn parallel to And 30 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural Boundary of martha creek; Thence in a westerly direction along a line drawn parallel to and 30 Metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of Martha creek to the intersection with the easterly shore high water Level of lake revelstoke, being the 573 metre contour; Thence due west to a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the high water level of lake revelstoke; Thence southerly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the high water level of lake revelstoke to A point lying due west of the middle line of an unnamed creek flowing Westerly through the northeast 1/4 of section 15, township 25, range 2, W6m, into lake revelstoke; Thence due east to the middle line of that unnamed creek and continuing Easterly along the middle line of the unnamed creek to the intersection With the westerly boundary of nakusp-mica creek highway 23, plan 17891; Thence in a northerly direction along the westerly boundary of highway 23, plan 17891 to a point lying parallel to and 30 metres Perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of martha Creek, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 71 hectares (49 hectares of upland and 22 hectares of foreshore).
Maxhamish lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8, tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 603 hectares.
Mcdonald creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 8036 except plan 1383 and sketch map 19766 A
.
Parcel a of district lot 8036 as shown on sketch map 19766 A
.
The road allowance as shown on sketch map 19766 A
Of district lot 8036.
Lots 1 to 4 of district lot 8036, plan 1383.
The road allowances as shown on plan 1383 of district lot 8036.
Blocks 1 to 5 of district lot 8036, plan 1085.
Lots 61, 62, 65 to 80, 84 to 89, and 96 to 98 all of district lot 8033, Plan 1037.
Those parts of lots 90, 91, 92, 93, 93a, 94, 94a, 95, 99, 100 and 101a All of district lot 8033, plan 1037 lying east of can cel logging road As shown on ministry of forests' file 0274815; except that part of lot 100 identified as "easement area" as shown on plan epp22925.
All those road allowances shown on plan 1037 of district lot 8033 lying East of can cel logging road as shown on ministry of forests' file 0274815.
That part of parcel a (see dd174368 I
) of district lot 8033 lying east of can cel logging road as shown on Ministry of forests' file 0274815.
Lots 1 to 15, lots 28 to 34, lots 37 to 41, lots 54 to 58 and lots 135 To 153 of district lot 8033, plan 1182.
All those road allowances and lanes shown on plan 1182 of district lot 8033.
That part of district lot 7106 lying west of plan 8809 except plan 2101 And reference plan 6680 I
.
Block 1 of district lot 7106, reference plan 6680 I
.
The road allowance as shown on reference plan 6680 I
.
Block 2 of district lot 7106, plan 2101.
The travelled road as shown on plan 2101 of district lot 7106.
Lots 1 to 11 of district lot 8035, plan 1606 except plans 1809 and 11874.
Lots 12 to 19 of district lot 8035, plan 1606 except plan rw130 and plan 11874.
That part of lot 20 of district lot 8035, plan 1606 lying west of plan 1809.
Those road allowances shown on plan 1606 of district lot 8035 which lie West of plan 1809.
That part of lot 21 of district lot 8049, plan 1606 lying west of plan 1809.
That part of district lot 8511 lying west of plan 1809.
The whole park containing approximately 468 hectares (268 hectares of upland and 200 hectares of foreshore).
Memory island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in shawnigan district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 171.
The whole park containing approximately 0.915 hectares.
Meziadin lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 2471.
That part of district lot 2464 lying west of highway 37, except plans 7035 and 5197.
Those parts of district lots 2470 and 2478 described as commencing at The point of intersection of the natural boundary of meziadin lake and The south boundary of district lot 2478; Thence east along the south boundaries of district lots 2478 and 2470 to The point of intersection with the west boundary of highway 37; Thence north along the west boundary of highway 37 a distance of 604 Metres;
Thence due west a distance of approximately 1 270 metres to the natural Boundary of meziadin lake; Thence in a general southeast direction along the natural boundary of Meziadin lake a distance of approximately 1 200 metres to the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 335 hectares.
Miracle beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in comox district and Nanaimo district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Firstly: the northeast 1/4 of section 5, township 5, comox district, Plan 552d.
Secondly: the southeast 1/4, section 8, township 5.
Thirdly: that part of the northeast 1/4, section 8, township 5 shown Outlined in red on plan 1425r.
Fourthly: that part of the northeast 1/4, section 8, township 5 lying to The south of a line which runs on a bearing of 83°2' commencing at a Point described as lying on the westerly boundary 301.7 metres (15 Chains) northwesterly from post no. 299, as shown on plan 552d.
Fifthly: lot 1, plan 25715, all of section 8, township 5, comox District, plan 552d.
Sixthly: district lot 283, nanaimo district.
The whole park containing approximately 137 hectares (109 hectares of upland and 28 hectares of foreshore).
Mitlenatch island nature park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 403, being mitlenatch island and an unnamed island Immediately east of mitlenatch island.
Secondly: all that foreshore, or land covered by water, situated in the Strait of georgia and lying between the natural boundary of district lot 403 and a line drawn parallel to and 305 metres perpendicularly distant From that natural boundary.
The whole park containing approximately 155 hectares (36 hectares of upland and 119 hectares of foreshore).
Moberly lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 99 hectares.
Momich lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1778; except adams west forest service road as shown on Ministry of forests' files 942-7458.15, 942-7458.12 and 942-7458.18.
The whole park containing approximately 1 605 hectares.
Monck park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1928; except (1) monck park road rs 2679, established by Gazette notice, march 23, 1969; (2) monck park road, shown on plans Kap73064 and kap73062; and (3) a 20 metre right of way centred on the Road identified as non-status road, ministry of forests and range file 0334705 and shown in red on the official plan deposited in the crown Land registry as plan 8 tube 1928.
The whole park containing approximately 118 hectares (92 hectares of upland and 26 hectares of foreshore).
Monkman park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2013.
The whole park containing approximately 63 119 hectares.
Montague harbour marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 38 tube 1899; except a 20 metre right of way centred on ministry of transportation's porlier Pass drive road.
The whole park containing approximately 102 hectares (70 hectares of upland and 32 hectares of foreshore).
Monte lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 18 Tube 1926.
The whole park containing approximately 5 hectares.
Schedule c (cont'd) Morden colliery historic park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cranberry district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Parcel 1 (dd 6974-n) and parcel 2 (dd 6974-n) of section 11.
The whole park containing approximately 4 hectares.
Morrissey park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Those portions of district lots 2314 and 2315 which are shown as "park Reserve" on plan of survey no. 2676.
The whole park containing approximately 4.57 hectares.
Morton lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 38 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 74 hectares.
Mount assiniboine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1927.
The whole park containing approximately 39 013 hectares.
Mount blanchet park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1852.
The whole park containing approximately 24 774 hectares.
Mount edziza park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1875; except (1) mineral claim "red dog 3" 222131; and (2) mineral claim "red dog 4" 222132.
The whole park containing approximately 266 180 hectares.
Mount elphinstone park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1940.
The whole park containing approximately 141 hectares.
Mount erskine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the north salt spring Island division, cowichan district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 8 tube 1978.
The whole park containing approximately 107 hectares.
Mount maxwell park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in south saltspring island, Cowichan district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1911.
The whole park containing approximately 231 hectares.
Mount pope park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1978; Except the crown land subject to the regional district of Bulkley-nechako licence of occupation no. 703487, file 7406922.
The whole park containing approximately 2 030 hectares.
Mount richardson park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 33 tube 1768; Except licence of occupation 111141, containing approximately 0.75 hectares on Land act File 2404948 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, nanaimo.
The whole park containing approximately 1 000 hectares.
Mount seymour park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lots 58, 59 and 60 of district lot 624, plan 3259.
Lots a, b and c of district lot 624, plan 10949.
Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of lot a of district lot 624, plan 10949; Thence west along the north boundary of lot a to the northwest corner of Lot a; Thence south along the west boundary of lot a to a point lying due east Of the southeast corner of block 25 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence due west to the southeast corner of block 25; Thence north along the east boundary of block 25 to the southeast corner Of lot 9 of block 25; Thence west along the southerly boundary of lot 9 to the southwest Corner of lot 9; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 8 of block 25; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 8 to the southwest corner of Lot 8;
Thence north along the west boundary of lot 8 to the northwest corner of Lot 8;
Thence north in a straight line to the southwest corner of lot 1 of Block 24 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 17 of Block 23 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 17 to the southwest corner Of lot 17; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 1 of block 23; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 1 to the southwest corner of Lot 1;
Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 17 of Block 22 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 17 to the southwest corner Of lot 17; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 1 of block 22; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 1 to the southwest corner of Lot 1;
Thence north along the west boundary of block 22 to the northwest corner Of block 22; Thence north in a straight line to the southwest corner of lot 1 of Block 11 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence north along the west boundaries of lots 1 and 2 of block 11 to The northwest corner of lot 2; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 17 of Block 12 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 17 to the southwest corner Of lot 17; Thence west in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 3 of block 12; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 3 to the southwest corner of Lot 3;
Thence north along the west boundary of block 12 to the northwest corner Of block 12; Thence north in a straight line to the southwest corner of lot 1 of Block 5 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence north along the west boundary of lots 1 to 7 of block 5 to the Northwest corner of lot 7; Thence east along the north boundary of lot 7 to the northeast corner of Lot 7;
Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 13 of Block 5;
Thence east along the north boundary of lot 13 to the northeast corner Of lot 13; Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 7 of block 6 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence east along the north boundary of lot 7, block 6 to the northeast Corner of lot 7, block 6; Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 13 of Block 6;
Thence east along the north boundary of lot 13, block 6 to the northeast Corner of lot 13, block 6; Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 7 of block 7 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence east along the north boundary of lot 7, block 7 to the northwest Corner of lot 7, block 7; Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 13 of Block 7;
Thence east along the north boundary of lot 13, block 7 to the northeast Corner of lot 13, block 7; Thence east in a straight line to the southwest corner of lot 8 of block 8 of district lot 623, plan 2428; Thence north along the west boundaries of lots 8, 9 and 10 w of block 8 To the northwest corner of lot 10 w; Thence north in a straight line to the north boundary of district lot 623; Thence east along the north boundary of district lot 623 to the Northeast corner of district lot 623; Thence north along the west boundary of district lot 625 to a point Lying due west of the southwest corner of block 4 of district lot 625, Plan 2584;
Thence due east to the southwest corner of block 4; Thence east along the south boundary of lots 50 to 38 of block 4 to the Southeast corner of lot 38; Thence north along the east boundary of lot 38 to the northeast corner Of lot 38; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 13 of Block 4;
Thence north along the east boundary of lot 13 to the northeast corner Of lot 13; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 38 of Block 3 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence north along the east boundary of lot 38, block 3 to the northeast Corner of lot 38, block 3; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 13 of Block 3;
Thence north along the east boundary of lot 13, block 3 to the northeast Corner of lot 13, block 3; Thence in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 38 of block 2 Of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence north along the east boundary of lot 38, block 2 to the northeast Corner of lot 38, block 2; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 13 of Block 2;
Thence north along the east boundary of lot 13, block 2 to the northeast Corner of lot 13, block 2; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 39 of Block 1 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence north along the east boundary of lot 39, block 1 to the northeast Corner of lot 39, block 1; Thence north in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 14 of Block 1;
Thence north along the east boundary of lot 14, block 1 to the northeast Corner of lot 14, block 1; Thence north in a straight line to the south boundary of district lot 947; Thence west along the south boundary of lot 947 to the southwest corner Of lot 947; Thence north along the west boundary of lot 947 to the northwest corner Of lot 947; Thence west along the south boundary of parcel a, reference plan 2699 of District lot 946 to the southwest corner of district lot 946; Thence north along the west boundary of parcel a to the south boundary Of block c of district lot 5083; Thence west along the south boundary of block c to the southwest corner Of block c; Thence in a northeast direction along the westerly boundaries of block C, parcel a, reference plan 2845 of district lot 1415 and parcel a, Reference plan 2844 of district lot 1000 to the west boundary of District lot 1005; Thence north along the west boundary of lot 1005 to the southwest corner Of district lot 1006; Thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of Reference plan 2637 to the most southerly southeast corner of plan 21104; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of Plan 21104 to the most northerly northwest corner of plan 21104; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundary of Parcel "a", plan 2932 to the northwest corner of parcel "a"; Thence in a general northerly direction along the height of land which Forms the easterly boundary of the watershed of seymour river to the Point of intersection with westerly boundary of district lot 5382; Thence northerly along the west boundary of district lot 5382 to the Northwest corner of district lot 5382, lying on the height of land Forming the east boundary of the watershed of seymour river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the watershed boundary of Seymour river to a point lying due west of the southwest corner of District lot 1027; Thence due east to the southwest corner of lot 1027; Thence east along the south boundary of lot 1027 to the northwest corner Of district lot 824; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 824 to the northeast corner Of district lot 1350; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 1350 to the northwest corner Of lot 1350; Thence south along the west boundaries of lot 1350 and district lot 1460 To the southwest corner of lot 1460; Thence east along the south boundary of lot 1460 to the northwest corner Of district lot 872; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 872 to the north boundary of District lot 1404; Thence west to the northwest corner of lot 1404; Thence south along the west boundaries of lot 1404 and district lot 873 To the southwest corner of lot 873; Thence east along the south boundary of lot 873 to the northwest corner Of district lot 1351; Thence south along the west boundaries of lot 1351 and district lot 1352 To the north boundary of district lot 871; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 871 to the northwest corner Of lot 871; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 871 to the north boundary of District lot 1353; Thence west, north and west along the north boundary of lot 1353 to the Northwest corner of lot 1353; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 1353 to the southwest corner Of lot 1353; Thence east along the south boundary of lot 1353 to the northwest corner Of district lot 2171; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 2171 to the northeast corner Of district lot 2130; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 2130 to the northwest corner Of lot 2130; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 2130 to the northeast corner Of district lot 1534; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 1534 to the northwest corner Of lot 1534; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 1534 to the north boundary Of district lot 1009; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 1009 to the northwest corner Of lot 1009; Thence south along the west boundaries of lot 1009 and district lot 1417 To the north boundary of district lot 1360; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 1360 to the northwest corner Of lot 1360; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 1360 to the northwest corner Of district lot 2049; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 2049 to a point lying due North of the northeast corner of lot 2 of block 3 of district lot 2049, Plan 3112;
Thence due south to the northeast corner of lot 2; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 2 to the southeast corner of Lot 2;
Thence west along the south boundary of lot 2 and lot 1, of block 3 to The southwest corner of lot 1; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 18 of block 3 to the Southwest corner of lot 18; Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of block 12 of Plan 3112;
Thence south along the west boundary of block 12 to the north boundary Of district lot 2699; Thence southwest along the north boundary of lot 2699 to the northwest Corner of lot 2699; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 2699 to the north boundary Of district lot 625; Thence west along the north boundary of lot 625 to a point lying due North of the northeast corner of lot 9 of block 2 of district lot 625, Plan 2668;
Thence due south to the northeast corner of lot 9; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 9 to the southeast corner of Lot 9;
Thence west along the south boundaries of lots 9 to 4 of block 12 to the Southwest corner of lot 4; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 48 of Block 12;
Thence south along the east boundary of lot 48 to the southeast corner; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 3 of Block 13 of district lot 625, plan 2668; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 3 to the southeast corner of Lot 3;
Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 48 of Block 13;
Thence south along the east boundary of lot 48, block 13 to the Southeast corner of lot 48; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 3 of Block 14 of district lot 625, plan 2668; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 3, block 14 to the southeast Corner of lot 3; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 48 of Block 14;
Thence south along the east boundary of lot 48, block 14 to the Southeast corner of lot 48; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 3 of Block 15 of district lot 625, plan 2668; Thence west along the north boundaries of lots 3, 2 and 1 of block 15 to The northwest corner of lot 1; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 1 to the southwest corner of Lot 1;
Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 50 of Block 15;
Thence south along the west boundary of lot 50 to the southwest corner Of lot 50; Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 1 of Block 16 of district lot 625, plan 2668; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 1 to the southwest corner of Lot 1;
Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 50 of Block 16;
Thence south along the west boundary of lot 50 to the southwest corner Of lot 50; Thence east in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 26 of Block 5 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence east along the south boundary of lots 26, 27 and 28 of block 5 to The southwest corner of lot 28; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 22 of Block 6 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 22 to the southeast corner Of lot 22; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 29 of Block 6;
Thence south along the west boundary of lot 29 to the southeast corner Of lot 29; Thence west along the south boundaries of lots 29 and 30 of block 6 to The southwest corner of lot 30; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 20 of Block 7 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 20 to the southeast corner Of lot 20; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 31 of Block 7;
Thence south along the east boundary of lot 31 to the southeast corner Of lot 31; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 20 of Block 8 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 20 to the southeast corner Of lot 20; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 31 of Block 8;
Thence south along the east boundary of lot 31 to the southeast corner Of lot 31; Thence west along the south boundary of lots 31 and 32, of block 8 to The southwest corner of lot 32; Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 18 of Block 9 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence west along the north boundaries of lots 18 to 14 of block 9 to The northwest corner of lot 14; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 14 to the southwest corner Of lot 14; Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 37 of Block 9;
Thence south along the west boundary of lot 37 to the southwest corner Of lot 37; Thence south in a straight line to the northwest corner of lot 14 of Block 10 of district lot 625, plan 2584; Thence west in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 13 of Block 10;
Thence west along the north boundaries of lots 13 to 1 of block 10 to The northwest corner of lot 1; Thence due west to the west boundary of district lot 625; Thence south along the west boundary of lot 625 to the northwest corner Of district lot 624; Thence east along the north boundary of lot 624 to a point lying due North of the northeast corner of lot 3 of district lot plan 1950; Thence due south to the northeast corner of lot 3; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 3 to a point lying 10.05 Metres north of the south boundary of lot 3; Thence east parallel to and 10.05 metres perpendicularly distant from The south boundaries of lots 3 and 2 of plan 1950 to the east boundary Of lot 1 of plan 1950; Thence south along the east boundary of lot 1 to the southeast corner of Lot 1;
Thence south in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot a of District lot 624, plan 10949, being the point of commencement; Except (1) lots 1 to 4 and 13 to 16 of block 6, lots 1 to 16 of block 7, Lots 1 to 16 of block 8, lots 1 to 4 and 13 to 16 of block 9, lots 1 to 16 of block 20 and lots 1 to 4 and 11 to 16 of block 21, all of district Lot 2049, plan 3112; and (2) mount seymour park road as shown on Ministry of transportation's drawings dated 7/11/91.
Thirdly: those parts of mount seymour park road contained within park Use permit 1505.
Fourthly: that part of district lot 1005 known as deep cove lookout.
Fifthly: that part of district lot 5083 known as vancouver lookout.
The whole park containing approximately 3 509 hectares.
Mount terry fox park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1813.
The whole park containing approximately 1 930 hectares.
Moyie lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: those parts of district lots 2799 and 2800 as shown on Reference plan 49537d.
Lots 3 to 12 of block 1 of district lot 2799, plan 1514.
Those parts of district lots 2799 and 2800 dedicated as promenade on Plan 1514, except that part described lying south of the southeasterly Prolongation of the north boundary of lot 2 of block 1, plan 1514.
That part of district lot 2799 dedicated as road on plan 1514 and lying South of the northwesterly prolongation of the south boundary of lot 13 Of block 1, plan 1514 and lying north of the northwesterly prolongation Of the north boundary of lot 2 of block 1, plan 1514.
Those parts of lot 1 of district lot 2800, plan 8124 lying south of the Canadian pacific railway right of way, plan 524-u-1.
Secondly: the unsurveyed land described as commencing at the point of Intersection of the southeasterly prolongation of the south boundary of Lot 13 of district lot 2799, plan 1514 and the east boundary of the Promenade shown on plan 1514; Thence southeast along that prolongation to the natural boundary of Moyie lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Moyie lake to the point of intersection with the southeasterly Prolongation of the northeasterly boundary of lot 3 of district lot 2800, plan 5247; Thence northwest along the lot 3 boundary prolongation to the point of Intersection with the east boundary of the promenade shown on plan 1514; Thence in a general southerly direction along the promenade east Boundary to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: those parts of the beds of moyie river and peavine creek Adjacent to district lot 2800 and lying south of the canadian pacific Railway right of way, plan 524-u-1.
Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the south boundary Of district lot 2800, being the natural boundary of moyie lake, and the West boundary of canadian pacific railway right of way plan 524u1; Thence due south 200 metres; Thence in a general westerly and southwesterly direction along a line Parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the elevation of The natural boundary of moyie lake to the point of intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the northerly boundary of lot 2 of block 1 Of district lot 2799, plan 1514; Thence northwest along that prolongation to the natural boundary of Moyie lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Moyie lake to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 90.46 hectares (69.46 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).
M
Q
U
Q
W
In/brooks peninsula park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and utm Zone 9 and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2004.
The whole park containing approximately 39 936 hectares (36 005 hectares of upland and 3 931 hectares of Foreshore).
Mud lake delta park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 25 Tube 1779; except district lot 4696.
The whole park containing approximately 435 hectares.
Mudzenchoot park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1852.
The whole park containing approximately 644 hectares.
Muncho lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at standard pipe post no. 92 set on the northerly boundary of The alaska highway right of way, in the vicinity of mile 427.5, and as Shown on plan h-489; Thence due south to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 4.83 Kilometres perpendicularly distant from the southerly boundary of the Alaska highway right of way, plan h-489; Thence westerly and northerly along a line drawn parallel to and 4.83 Kilometres perpendicularly distant from the southerly and westerly Boundaries of the alaska highway right of way as shown on plans h-489, H-533, h-505, h-542, h-517, h-534, h-541, h-529 and h-461, to its Intersection with the middle line of prochniak creek; Thence easterly along the middle line of prochniak creek, produced to Its intersection with the middle line of trout river; Thence due east to the easterly boundary of the watershed of trout River;
Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of trout River and muncho lake to a point lying due east of the most southerly Point on the southerly shore natural boundary of muncho lake; Thence easterly in a straight line to and continuing easterly and Southeasterly along the mainstream of nonda creek, on the right bank of Nonda creek, to the left bank natural boundary of toad river; Thence southwesterly along the left bank natural boundary of toad river To a point lying due north of standard pipe post no. 92 set on the Northerly boundary of the alaska highway right of way, as shown on plan H-489;
Thence due south to standard pipe post no. 92, being the point of Commencement;
Except (1) district lots 621 to 625, 627, 1168, 1172, 1173, 1174, 1179, 1182, 1183, 1641 and 1650; (2) the 9.75 hectare parcel of land reserved For ministry of transportation, in the vicinity of district lot 571, and Shown on the plan attached to file 8002605, a copy of which is held on Deposit with the ministry of water, land and air protection, victoria; And (3) the alaska highway right of way as shown on plans h-489, h-533, 31772, h-542, h-517, h-534, h-541, h-529 and h-461.
The whole park containing approximately 88 420 hectares.
Murrin park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1978.
The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares.
Muscovite lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1870.
The whole park containing approximately 5 708 hectares.
Nahatlatch park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 1800; except the crown land that is the subject of: (1) a 30 Metre right of way centred on nahatlatch lake forest service road 942-6996-00, 01 and 02; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests' road permit r03662; (3) file fn002246, cutting permit 27, Block 6 including allowances for landings and guyline clearances; and (4) file fn02248 - helicopter landing (kookipi fsr).
The whole park containing approximately 2 009 hectares.
Naikoon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2024.
The whole park containing approximately 69 149 hectares (67 039 Hectares of upland and 2 110 hectares of foreshore).
Nairn falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 4096, being a point On the left bank natural boundary of green river; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of district lot 4096 to the Intersection with the southeasterly boundary of bridge river power co.
Right of way as shown on plan b3324; Thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundaries of plans b3324, Cg253 (district lot 5445), b3581 and b3419 to the westerly boundary of District lot 5444, plan cg253; Thence southerly and northeasterly along the westerly and southeasterly Boundaries of district lot 5444 to the most westerly easterly boundary Of district lot 239; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 239 to the Southwesterly internal angle of district lot 239; Thence easterly along the most southerly northerly boundary of district Lot 239 to the northwesterly boundary of bc hydro right of way, plan C13012;
Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of bc hydro rights Of way, plans c13012 and c9525, to the right bank natural boundary of Green river; Thence in a general easterly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of green river to a point lying due south of the southwest Corner of district lot 259; Thence due south to a line drawn parallel to and 201.2 metres Perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary of green River;
Thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 201.2 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural Boundary of green river to a point lying southeasterly in a straight Line on a bearing of 120°30' from the southeast corner of district lot 4096; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of District lot 4096, being a point on the left bank natural boundary of Green river, and being the point of commencement; Except (1) district lot 4148; (2) plan a19; and (3) pemberton-squamish Highway no. 99.
The whole park containing approximately 170 hectares.
Nalbeelah creek wetlands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1886; Except ministry of forests' timber sale licence a55899 blocks 1, 2 and 3.
The whole park containing approximately 171 hectares.
Nancy greene park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of block b of district lot 16358; Thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of district Lot 13106 and continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of District lot 13106 to the southeast corner of district lot 13106, being A point on the easterly limit of highway 3b (rossland-sheep lake Highway), as shown on plan r-344; Thence westerly along the southerly boundaries of district lots 13106, 13105 and 12824 to the intersection of the southerly boundary of District lot 12824 with the easterly limit of highway 3 (southern Trans-provincial) as shown on plan r-238; Thence northeasterly along the easterly limit of highway 3 (southern Trans-provincial highway) as shown on plan r-238 to the most westerly Point of the southerly limit of highway 3b (rossland-sheep lake Highway), as shown on plan r-344; Thence easterly and southeasterly along the southerly and westerly Limits of highway 3b (rossland-sheep lake highway), plan r-344, to the Intersection of the westerly boundary with the right bank natural Boundary of blueberry creek; Thence northeasterly along the right bank natural boundary of blueberry Creek to the northeasterly boundary of block a of district lot 16358; Thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of block a of District lot 16358 to the most easterly corner of district lot 16358; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly corner of Block b of district lot 16358; Thence southeasterly along the northerly boundary of block b of district Lot 16358 to the most easterly northeast corner of district lot 16358; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of block b of district lot 16358 to the southeast corner of district lot 16358, being the point of Commencement;
Except (1) highway 3b (rossland-sheep lake highway), as shown on plan R-344; and (2) the road shown as 20 metres (66 feet) in width on plan 2 Tube 723 on file with the surveyor general of british columbia.
The whole park containing approximately 203 hectares.
Netalzul meadows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1788.
The whole park containing approximately 292 hectares.
Nickel plate park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point at the northeast corner of district lot 3316 S
; Thence due east 804.6 a distance of metres; Thence due north 1 207 a distance of metres; Thence due west 1 207 a distance of metres; Thence due south approximately 1 005.8 metres to the shore of nickel Plate lake; Thence northeasterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the shore of Nickel plate lake to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 105 hectares.
Nicolum river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: legal subdivision 12 of section 5, township 5, range 25, west Of the sixth meridian, except the hope-princeton highway no. 3 as shown On ministry of transportation's plan number h-80, dated january 16, 1995 And on plan 37730; Secondly: the south 1/2 of legal subdivision 13 of section 5, township 5, range 25, west of the sixth meridian; Thirdly: that part of nicolum creek within legal subdivision 12 and the South 1/2 of legal subdivision 13, both of section 5, township 5, range 25, west of the sixth meridian.
The whole park containing approximately 18 hectares.
Nilkitkwa lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained with the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1788.
The whole park containing approximately 10.3 hectares.
Nimpkish lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 226, being on the West shore natural boundary of nimpkish lake; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundaries of district lot 226 to the intersection with The right bank natural boundary of tlakwa creek; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of tlakwa creek to the Intersection with the northerly boundary of section 38; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of section 38 to the northwest corner of section 39; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of section 39 to the point Of intersection with the right bank natural boundary of tlakwa creek; Thence westerly along the right bank natural boundary of tlakwa creek to A point, lying due west 2.22 kilometres and due north approximately 400 Metres from the southwesterly corner of section 38, and is the point of Intersection of the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek, Tributary to the right bank of tlakwa creek; Thence westerly along the natural boundary of an unnamed creek a Distance of 200 metres; Thence westerly in a straight line to the height of land forming the Watershed boundary between an unnamed creek and tlakwa creek; Thence in a general westerly, northerly and northeasterly direction Along the southerly, westerly and northerly boundaries of the watershed Of tlakwa creek to the point of intersection with the easterly boundary Of the watershed of karmutzen creek; Thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of karmutzen creek to a point lying due south 240 metres And due west approximately 2.1 kilometres from the northwest corner of District lot 1263; Thence due east to the point of intersection of the westerly shore Natural boundary of nimpkish lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of nimpkish lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 226, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 3 949.8 hectares.
Ningunsaw park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2003.
The whole park containing approximately 15 704 hectares.
Niskonlith lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1902.
The whole park containing approximately 275 hectares (243 hectares of upland and 32 hectares of foreshore).
Nitinat river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in renfrew district and Barclay district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the most easterly northeast corner of "saouk" Indian reserve no. 16, barclay district; Thence southerly along the most easterly boundary of "saouk" indian Reserve no. 16 to the most easterly southeast corner of "saouk" indian Reserve no. 16; Thence due south a distance of 125 metres to a point lying in renfrew District;
Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 130° a distance of 425 metres; Thence due south a distance of 150 metres; Thence due east to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary Of the canadian national railway right of way as shown on plan 1 t 155 Rlys on file in the crown land registry services branch in victoria; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the westerly boundary Of canadian national railway rw to the point of intersection with the Northerly boundary of block b, section 51, renfrew district; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary to the most easterly Northeast corner of "saouk" indian reserve no. 16, being the point of Commencement;
Except all roads covered by ministry of forests' road permit r07655.
Secondly: commencing at the intersection of the northwesterly boundary Of the c.n. railway plan 53 rw; Thence southwesterly, northwesterly and southwesterly along the Northwesterly boundary of plan 53 rw to a point lying due east of the Northeast corner of section 16, renfrew district; Thence due north a distance of 900 metres; Thence due east to a point on the westerly boundary of block b, section 51, renfrew district; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to its intersection with the Northwesterly boundary of plan 53 rw; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of plan 53 rw to The point of commencement; Except all roads covered by ministry of forests' road permit r07655.
The whole park containing approximately 160 hectares.
Norbury lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Sublots 1 and 8 of district lot 318.
The whole park containing approximately 97 hectares.
North thompson islands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the left bank natural boundary of north Thompson river lying due west of the northeast corner of district lot 2025; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of north thompson river To a point lying due south 130 metres and due west approximately 200 Metres from the northeast corner of district lot 2026; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 278° a distance of 710 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 240° a distance of 420 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of District lot 1833, being a point on the right bank natural boundary of North thompson river; Thence in general northwesterly and northeasterly directions along the Natural boundary of north thompson river to the northeast corner of District lot 1833; Thence due east a distance of 80 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 17° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 70° to the left bank natural Boundary of north thompson river; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of north thompson river to a Point lying due west of the northeast corner of district lot 2025, being The point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 78.6 hectares.
North thompson oxbows east park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1784; except the crown land that is the subject of (1) timber Licence t0713, block 12, cp "f"; and (2) timber licence t0713, block 12 B.
The whole park containing approximately 288 hectares.
North thompson oxbows manteau park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1784; except the crown land that is the subject of timber Licence t0713, block 12 a.
The whole park containing approximately 516 hectares.
North thompson river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 3899.
That part of district lot 1682 lying east of plan a1383.
That part of district lot 1641 shown as road on plan 24642 except plan A1383.
Secondly: that part of district lot 1602 lying east of highway 5 (plan H-11130) except plan a1383, and that part described as commencing at the Southwest corner of district lot 1602; Thence north along the westerly boundary of district lot 1602 a distance Of 429 metres; Thence due east 168 metres; Thence due south approximately 429 metres to the south boundary of District lot 1602; Thence west along the south boundary of district lot 1602 to the point Of commencement.
Thirdly: lot 1 of district lot 73, plan 9223.
The whole park containing approximately 126 hectares.
Nuchatlitz park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 431, being on the Natural boundary of esperanza inlet; Thence due east 150 metres along the northerly boundary of district lot 431; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point on the easterly Boundary of district lot 432 lying 150 metres due north of the southeast Corner of district lot 432; Thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of district lots 432 and 433 to the southeast corner of district lots 432 and 433; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of district lots 439 and 429 to the most northerly northeast corner of district lot 429, being a Point on the westerly shore natural boundary of owossitsa lake; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of owossitsa lake to the most easterly northeast corner of district lot 429; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 429 to the Southeast corner of district lot 429, being a point on the northeasterly Shore natural boundary of port langford; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 240° a distance of 500 metres; Thence due south a distance of 2.20 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 4.40 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 5.30 kilometres; Thence due east to a point on the natural boundary of esperanza inlet, Being the westerly boundary of district lot 430; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of esperanza inlet to The point of commencement; Except (1) "nuchatl" indian reserve no. 1; (2) "nuchatl" indian reserve No. 2; (3) "ahpukto" indian reserve no. 3; (4) "opemit" indian reserve No. 4; (5) district lot 435; and (6) the crown land that is the subject Of an application dated april 25, 1996, under file nos. 1400087 and 1403596 and generally described as:
Firstly: commencing at a point lying 50 metres due west of a "post" Located on the westerly shore of district lot 438 as shown on a map in Bc lands, licence of occupation 102249; Thence due west 150 metres; Thence due north 200 metres; Thence due east 250 metres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.
Secondly: commencing at a point lying 60 metres due north of a "post" Located on the northerly shore of district lot 436a as shown on a map in Bc lands, licence of occupation 103907; Thence due north 250 metres; Thence due east 80 metres; Thence due south 250 metres; Thence due west to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: commencing at a point lying 10 metres due north of a "post" Located on the northwesterly shore of district lot 437 as shown on a map In bc lands, licence of occupation 103907; Thence due north 25 metres; Thence due west 100 metres; Thence due south 25 metres; Thence due east to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 2 105 hectares (442 hectares of upland and 1 663 of foreshore).
Octopus islands marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 2010; except District lots 1072 and 1076.
The whole park containing approximately 862 hectares (404 hectares of upland and 458 hectares of foreshore).
Okanagan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 22 Tube 1914; except the right of way of the okanagan highway no. 97 And the land required for the right of way expansion of highway no. 97, As shown on kamloops land title office plans h578, kap36630 and Kap77074.
The whole park containing approximately 90 hectares (69 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).
[ Okanagan mountain park . description repealed 2016-14-1.] Okeover arm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 2013.
The whole park containing approximately 3 hectares.
Oliver cove marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1971.
The whole park containing approximately 62 hectares (37 hectares of upland and 25 hectares of foreshore).
[ Omineca park . description repealed 2015-4-3.] One island lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most easterly southeast corner of lot 2027; Thence south 35°40'00" east 261.56 metres; Thence south 48°22'10" west 623.72 metres; Thence north 36°00'40" west approximately 261.56 metres to the southeast Boundary of lot 2029; Thence northeasterly and northwesterly along the southeasterly and Northeasterly boundaries of lot 2029 to the most northerly corner of lot 2029, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary of one island Lake;
Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of One island lake, being also the natural boundary of lot 2027, to the Most southerly southwest corner of lot 2026; Thence southwesterly, northwesterly, and northeasterly along the Southeasterly, southwesterly and northwesterly boundaries of lot 2028 to The most northerly northeast corner of the lot 2028, being a point on The natural boundary of one island lake; Thence northeasterly along the northwest boundary of lot 2026 to the Most easterly southeast corner of lot 2025; Thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of lot 2025 to the Most northerly northeast corner of lot 2025; Thence north 53°54'40" east 462.76 metres; Thence south 35°40'00" east 583.48 metres; Thence south 53°54'40" west approximately 402.40 metres to the Northeasterly boundary of lot 2027; Thence southeasterly along the northeasterly boundary of lot 2027 to the Most easterly southeast corner of lot 2027, being the point of Commencement, except (1) the public road right of way; and (2) petroleum And natural gas tenure 7304.
The whole park containing approximately 61 hectares.
Otter lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 2016.
The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.
Owyacumish river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1886.
The whole park containing approximately 805 hectares (803 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Paarens beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1808; Except sowchea road right of way as shown on plan 10375.
The whole park containing approximately 50 hectares.
Peace arch park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the north 55.47 metres (182 feet) of lot 3 of section 6, Township 7 as shown on plan 7026, containing approximately 1.00 hectare.
Secondly: the 2.323 hectare (5.74 acres) portion of "semiahmoo" indian Reserve in section 1, township 1 as shown outlined in red on sketch plan 8688.
Thirdly: commencing at the southwest corner of section 6, township 7, Ecm, being a point on the southerly boundary of the province; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the province to a point Lying due south of the southeast corner of lot 12 of section 6, township 7, plan 3240; Thence due north to the southeast corner of lot 12, plan 3240; Thence northerly along the easterly boundaries of lots 12, 13 and 15, Plan 3240, to a point on the easterly boundary of lot 15 lying due east Of the northeast corner of the 0.1295 hectare (0.32 acre) portion of lot 15 as shown on sketch plan 7182; Thence due west to the northeast corner of 0.1295 hectare (0.32 acre) Portion of lot 15, as shown on sketch plan 7182, and continuing westerly Along the northerly boundary of 0.1295 hectare parcel and the westerly Prolongation of the northerly boundary, produced to the westerly Boundary of section 6, township 7, ecm; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of section 6, township 7, Ecm a distance of 56.87 metres; Thence due west to the westerly boundary of peace arch highway right of Way, as shown on plan 5391; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of peace arch highway right Of way, as shown on plan 5391, and continuing southerly along the Westerly boundary of the 0.2428 hectare (0.60 acre) portion of "semiahmoo" indian reserve, as shown on sketch plan 7555, to the Southerly boundary of the province; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the province to the Southwest corner of section 6, township 7, ecm, being the point of Commencement;
Except those portions of the peace arch highway right of way deemed to Be arterial highways and contained within the described boundaries of Plan 5391.
The whole park containing approximately 9 hectares.
Pennask lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of lot 4253; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of lot 4253 to the easterly Boundary of lot 4821; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of lot 4821 to the Northeasterly shore natural boundary of pennask lake; Thence southerly in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 4834, Being a point on the southwesterly shore natural boundary of pennask Lake;
Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of lot 4834 to the easterly shore natural boundary of pennask Lake;
Thence in a general southerly and westerly direction along the natural Boundary of pennask lake to the northeast corner of lot 3759; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of lot 3759 a distance of 5 Chains;
Thence due east to the westerly shore natural boundary of peterson lake; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the natural boundary Of peterson lake to the southerly boundary of lot 5882; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly Boundaries of lot 5882 to the southerly boundary of lot 4252; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly Boundaries of lot 4252 to the northwest corner of lot 4252; Thence northerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of lot 4253 Being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 244 hectares.
Penrose island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1971.
The whole park containing approximately 2 095 hectares (945 hectares of upland and 1 150 hectares of foreshore).
Petroglyph park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1911.
The whole park containing approximately 1.8 hectares.
Pilot bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the southwest corner of sublot 80 of district lot 4595, plan x31; Thence easterly, northerly and westerly along the southerly, easterly And northerly boundaries of sublot 80, plan x31, to the southeast corner Of district lot 270; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 270 to the easterly boundary of district lot 207; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 207 to the northeast corner of plan 15710, Being a point on pilot bay road and a point on the northerly boundary of District lot 207; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of plan 15710 to the most Easterly southeast corner of plan 15710, being a point on the northerly Shore natural boundary of pilot bay; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of pilot bay to the northwest corner of lot 1 of district lot 207, plan 1315, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary of pilot bay; Thence southwesterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 215°, a Distance of 220 metres; Thence due south a distance of 604 metres; Thence due east to the easterly shore natural boundary of kootenay lake; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the easterly shore Natural boundary of kootenay lake to the southwest corner of sublot 80 Of district lot 4595, plan x31, being the point of commencement; Except that portion of pilot bay road lying to the south of reference Plan 82607
I
And to the east of plan 15710.
Secondly: that portion of pilot peninsula lying to the south and west of A line described as commencing at the southeast corner of lot 3 of District lot 207, plan 4827, being a point on the westerly shore natural Boundary of pilot bay; Thence northwesterly along the southwesterly boundaries of lot 3 to the Most westerly corner of lot 3; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly boundaries of The 20 metre (66 foot) road, dedicated on plan 4827, to the southeast Corner of lot 1 of district lot 207, plan 4827; Thence westerly, northerly and westerly along the southerly, westerly And southerly boundaries of lot 1, plan 4827, to the most westerly Southwest corner lot 1, being a point on the easterly shore natural Boundary of kootenay lake.
The whole park containing approximately 347 hectares (313 hectares of upland and 34 hectares of foreshore).
Pine river breaks park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1841.
The whole park containing approximately 614 hectares.
Pinnacles park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
The most westerly 1 005.8 metres of lot 8651, and that portion of Unsurveyed crown land lying south of lot 8651, and north of baker creek, Except the crown land that is the subject of plan 28062.
The whole park containing approximately 124.39 hectares.
Pirates cove marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 30 tube 1909.
The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares (26 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Plumper cove marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1911; except lease 232808 "shelter island estates" (log Hauling site) land and water british columbia inc. file no. 0190086.
The whole park containing approximately 66 hectares (33 hectares of upland and 33 hectares of foreshore).
Porcupine meadows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1773.
The whole park containing approximately 2 703 hectares.
Porpoise bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lots 10 to 36, block 1; Lots 1 to 22, block 2, of district lot 1557, plan 3661.
Secondly: that part of the old right of way of sechelt inlet road Covering lots 14, 15, 24 and 25, block 1 of district lot 1557, plan 3661 (this covers the right of way which was replaced by the new right of way As shown on ministry of transportation's district plan 31012-40 dated 80-10-24); Except the right of way of sechelt inlet road.
The whole park containing approximately 61 hectares.
Porteau cove park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1898.
The whole park containing approximately 56 hectares (4 hectares of upland and 52 hectares of foreshore).
Premier lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1809; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' road premier Lake no. 7612.01; and (2) ministry of transportation's premier lake road No. 151 shown on district plan 23-24.
The whole park containing approximately 837 hectares.
Princess louisa marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lots 4212 and 5385, together with parcel "a" of District lot 4211, as shown on reference plan 4645.
Secondly: district lot 4820, being macdonald (hamilton) island, and Those unnamed islands surveyed as district lots 3530 and 3534.
Thirdly: all that foreshore or land covered by water, at the head of Princess louisa inlet, lying to the north of a line drawn due west of a Point on the easterly shore natural boundary of princess louisa inlet Lying 221 metres due south and approximately 101 metres due west from The southeast corner of district lot 5385.
Fourthly: district lots 3514, 3515, 3524 and 3525.
The whole park containing approximately 964 hectares (936 hectares of upland and 27 hectares of foreshore).
Prophet river wayside park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 22 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 113 hectares.
Prudhomme lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 9 hectares.
Ptarmigan creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1831.
The whole park containing approximately 3 329 hectares.
Puntchesakut lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 11835.
Secondly: the unsurveyed crown land described as commencing at the Southeast corner of district lot 11835; Thence south along the southerly prolongation of the east boundary of District lot 11835 a distance of 400 metres; Thence due west a distance of approximately 200 metres to the east shore Natural boundary of puntchesakut lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Puntchesakut lake to the point of intersection with the south boundary Of district lot 11835; Thence easterly along the south boundary of district lot 11835 to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 38 hectares.
Purden lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1849.
The whole park containing approximately 2 521 hectares.
Pure lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 27 tube 1914.
The whole park containing approximately 142 hectares.
Pyramid creek falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 17 Tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.
Quatsino park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of "koprino" indian reserve no. 10, Being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of koprino Harbour;
Thence due south a distance of approximately 150 metres to the middle Line of an arm of koprino harbour; Thence southeasterly along the middle line of an arm of koprino harbour And the southeasterly prolongation of koprino harbour, to a point of Intersection with the southeasterly shore natural boundary of koprino Harbour;
Thence in a general southerly and westerly direction along the natural Boundary of koprino harbour to the northeast corner of "clatux" indian Reserve no. 9; Thence southerly, westerly and northerly along the easterly, southerly And westerly boundaries of "clatux" indian reserve no. 9 to the Northwest corner of "clatux" indian reserve no. 9, and being on the Easterly shore natural boundary of koprino harbour; Thence in a general southerly, easterly and northerly direction along The natural boundary of koprino harbour to a point lying due north 150 Metres and due east approximately 400 metres from the northeast corner Of lot 1, block a, district lot 1005, plan 3702; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 335° a distance of approximately 300 metres to a point on a height of land; Thence due west a distance of one kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of 240 metres; Thence due west a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 310° a distance of approximately 2 Kilometres to the intersection with the southerly boundary of a road South of simpson creek; Thence in a general westerly direction along that southerly boundary to The intersection with the left bank natural boundary of simpson creek; Thence westerly along the natural boundary of simpson creek to the Intersection with the easterly boundary of "koprino" indian reserve no.
10; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of "koprino" indian reserve No. 10 to the southeast corner of "koprino" indian reserve no. 10, being The point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 654.2 hectares.
Raft cove park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1915.
The whole park containing approximately 787 hectares (444 hectares of upland and 343 hectares of foreshore).
Rathtrevor beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanoose district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lots 41 and 59, except from district lot 59, lot 1 as Shown on plan 18359.
Secondly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 41, being a Point on the natural boundary of the strait of georgia; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 20° a distance Of 282 metres; Thence due east a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 168° a distance Of 1.5 kilometres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of lot 1 Of district lot 59, plan 18359, being a point on the westerly shore Natural boundary of the strait of georgia; Thence in a general northerly and northwesterly direction along the Westerly shore natural boundary of the strait of georgia to the Northwest corner of district lot 41, being a point on the natural Boundary of the strait of georgia, and being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 347 hectares (107 hectares of upland and 240 hectares of foreshore).
Rearguard falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 39 tube 1802.
The whole park containing approximately 46 hectares.
Rebecca spit marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 33, being a point on The easterly shore natural boundary of quadra island; Thence northeasterly in a straight line, on a bearing of 65° a distance Of 402 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 325° a distance Of 2.2 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 604 metres; Thence due south a distance of 423 metres; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the southwest corner of District lot 1490; Thence due east to the southwest corner of district lot 33, and Continuing easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 33 to The southeast corner of district lot 33, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 177 hectares (22 hectares of upland and 155 hectares of foreshore).
Red bluff park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the northeast corner of lot 7911, lying on the Natural boundary of babine lake; Thence in a westerly direction along the northerly boundary of lot 7911 Approximately 101 metres to the easterly boundary of the right of way of The topley landing road 118, shown on road survey plan 5778; Thence in a general northerly direction along the right of way of the Topley landing road 118 a distance of 1.33 kilometres; Thence due north 1.01 kilometres; Thence due east 120.70 metres; Thence due north 80.47 metres; Thence due east approximately 151 metres to the natural boundary of Babine lake; Thence in a general southerly, then easterly, then southerly, then Westerly and then southerly direction following the natural boundary of Babine lake to a westerly and then southerly direction following the Natural boundary of babine lake to the point of commencement; Except the crown land that is the subject of the right of way of the Topley landing road 118, shown on road survey plan 5778 and containing Approximately 83 hectares.
Secondly: all foreshore described as commencing at the northeast corner Of lot 7911, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of Babine lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly shore natural Boundary of babine lake to a point lying due west of another point lying 2.29 kilometres due north from the northeast corner of lot 7911; Thence due east 100 metres; Thence in a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from The natural boundary of babine lake following a general southerly Direction to a point lying 100 metres due east of the most easterly Point of red bluff point, being 310 metres east and 1.57 kilometres North of the northeast corner of lot 7911; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement and Containing approximately 65 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 148 hectares.
Rendezvous island south park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1804.
The whole park containing approximately 164 hectares (113 hectares of upland and 51 hectares of foreshore).
Roberts creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1901; Except the sunshine coast highway no. 101 as shown on plan 15 Tube 1136 on deposit in the crown land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 40 hectares (39 hectares of upland and 1 hectare of foreshore).
Roberts memorial park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cedar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1895.
The whole park containing approximately 14 hectares.
Rolley lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Lots 15 and 16 of the southwest 1/4 of section 26, plan 1664.
Lot 1 of the southeast 1/4 of section 26, plan 25494.
The north 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of section 26 except the easterly 201.17 metres of section 26.
The southeast 1/4 of the northwest 1/4 of section 26.
The northeast 1/4 of section 26 except that part lying to the northwest Of straight line which connects the mid points of the north boundary and West boundary of the northeast 1/4 of section 26.
The west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of the northwest 1/4 of section 25.
The whole park containing approximately 115 hectares.
Roscoe bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1901.
The whole park containing approximately 242 hectares (190 hectares of upland and 52 hectares of foreshore).
Rosebery park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lots 1 to 12 and lots 15 to 29 of block 1 of lot 298, shown on plan 569 Nelson, also the fractional south 1/2 of lot 2334 except the crown land That is the subject of the 40 foot road easement granted to the big bend Lumber company limited.
The whole park containing approximately 32 hectares.
Rosewall creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in newcastle district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of district lot 87, plan 1871 commencing at the southwest Corner of district lot 35; Thence south to the north boundary of district lot 95; Thence east along the north boundary of district lot 95 to the northeast Corner of district lot 95; Thence due east to the west boundary of district lot 29; Thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of district lots 29 and 15 to the southeast corner of district lot 50; Thence west along the south boundary to the southwest corner of district Lot 50;
Thence southerly along the east boundary of district lot 35 to the Southeast corner of district lot 35; Thence westerly along the south boundary of district lot 35 to the Southwest corner of district lot 35, being the point of commencement, Except (1) the crown land that is the subject of highway plan rw816, Reference highways drawing r6-v4334-h103; and (2) esquimalt and nanaimo Railway right of way plan dd17251-n.
The whole park containing approximately 54.3 hectares.
Ross lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: block a of district lot 2121 except that part of a 335.3 metre Long and 60.96 metre wide strip of land which is south of the canadian National railway right of way boundary and lays between miles 42.67 and 42.43 of the canadian national railway right of way.
Secondly: district lot 795, except the canadian national railway right Of way as shown on map 1162 and that part of a 335.3 metre long and 60.96 metre wide strip of land which is south of the canadian national Railway right of way boundary and lays between miles 42.67 and 42.43 of The canadian national railway right of way.
Thirdly: the bed of ross lake (formerly known as six mile lake) as shown On the field book plans for block a of district lots 2121 and 795.
The whole park containing approximately 307 hectares.
Rubyrock lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1927; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on the existing access roads To "ilch'az uz ta tsoh" indian reserve no. 44 and "ucausley" indian Reserve no. 4; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on the existing Access roads to "ye koo che" indian reserve no. 3.
The whole park containing approximately 41 221 hectares.
Ruckle park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in south saltspring island South division, cowichan district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 1 tube 1979.
The whole park containing approximately 529 hectares.
Rugged point marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Nootka district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1808.
The whole park containing approximately 349 hectares (162 hectares of upland and 187 hectares of foreshore).
Ruth lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 7551; Thence due east 300 metres; Thence due north approximately 1 207 metres to a point lying due east of The northeast corner of district lot 7692; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the east shore natural Boundary of ruth lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Ruth lake to the point of intersection with the east boundary of District lot 551; Thence south along the east boundary of district lot 7551 to the point Of commencement; Except the crown land that is the subject of district lot 7692, eagle Creek road as shown on highways drawing a339 and the road right of way In district lot 7692.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
Ryan park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 12260.
The whole park containing approximately 58 hectares.
St. mary's alpine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Spade creek lying due west of the most northerly northwest corner of sub Lot 50 of district lot 4592, plan x30; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 45° to the Easterly boundary of the watershed of white creek; Thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the easterly, northerly And westerly boundaries of the watershed of white creek, passing through The summits of mount alton, mount st. mary, nowitka mountain, trinity Mountain and mount manson, to the southeasterly boundary of the Watershed of spade creek; Thence northeasterly along the southeasterly boundary of the watershed Of spade creek to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 9 146 hectares.
Sabine channel marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1962.
The whole park containing approximately 2 254 hectares (164 hectares of upland and 2 090 hectares of foreshore).
Saltery bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest corner Of district lot 2091 and the natural boundary of jervis inlet; Thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of Jervis inlet to a point, being the southeast corner of district lot 4121; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 4121 to the Northeast corner of district lot 4121; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District lot 2091; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 2091 to the Point of commencement; Except (1) the british columbia hydro and power authority right of way Shown as district lot 6646; and (2) the provincial highway 101 shown as Right of way plan 4395.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest Corner of district lot 1630 and the natural boundary of jervis inlet; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1630 to a Point lying 100 metres south of the northwest corner; Thence due west 300 metres; Thence due south to the natural boundary of jervis inlet; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Jervis inlet to the point of commencement; Except (1) the british columbia hydro and power authority right of way Shown as district lot 6647; and (2) the provincial highway 101 shown as Right of way plan 4395.
Thirdly: the unsurveyed foreshore and land covered by water of jervis Inlet described as commencing at the point of intersection of the Southwest corner of district lot 2091 and the natural boundary of jervis Inlet;
Thence due south 400 metres; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the southerly Prolongation of the easterly boundary of district lot 4121; Thence northerly along that southerly prolongation of the natural Boundary of jervis inlet; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Jervis inlet to the point of commencement.
Fourthly: the unsurveyed foreshore and land covered by water of jervis Inlet described as commencing at the point of intersection of the Southwest corner of district lot 1630 and the natural boundary of jervis Inlet;
Thence southerly 400 metres along the southerly prolongation of westerly Boundary of district lot 1630; Thence due west 300 metres; Thence due north to the natural boundary of jervis inlet; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Jervis inlet to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 69.3 hectares (39.3 hectares of upland and 30 hectares of foreshore).
Sandwell park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 28 tube 1914.
The whole park containing approximately 17 hectares (3 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Santa gertrudis-boca del infierno park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 366b; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 366b to the Northeast corner of district lot 366b; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to a point lying 100 metres Perpendicularly distant northerly from the natural boundary of the Southerly shore of the entrance to boca del infierno bay; Thence in a general easterly and southeasterly direction along a line Drawn 100 metres perpendicularly distant from and parallel to the Natural boundary of boca del infierno bay to and continuing along a line Drawn 100 metres perpendicularly distant from and parallel to the Natural boundary of the westerly shores of mckay passage and cook Channel, to and across the mouths of a small unnamed bay and santa Gertrudis cove, to a point lying due east of the southeast corner of District lot 68; Thence due west to the southeast corner of district lot 68; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of district lot 68 to the Southwest corner of district lot 68; Thence westerly in a straight line to the southeast corner of district Lot 264 and continuing westerly in a straight line to the southwest Corner of district lot 264; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 264 to the Northwest corner of district lot 264; Thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of district lot 244 to the most northerly northeast corner of district lot 244; Thence due north to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of District lot 366b; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 366b, being the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 440 hectares (357 hectares of upland and 83 hectares of foreshore).
Sargeant bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1940.
The whole park containing approximately 146 hectares (143 hectares of upland and 3 hectares of foreshore).
Sasquatch park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 2013; except rockwell drive as shown on ministry of Transportation and infrastructure's district plan 55-17.
The whole park containing approximately 1 229 hectares.
Saysutshun (newcastle island marine) park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 19 tube 1914.
The whole park containing approximately 363 hectares (334 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).
Schoen lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1917.
The whole park containing approximately 8 775 hectares.
Sechelt inlets marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1803.
The whole park containing approximately 140 hectares.
Seeley lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of the southwest 1/4 of district lot 1379 lying south of Highway no. 16 and north of seeley lake.
That portion of the south 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of lot 1379 lying to The north of the northerly boundary of the right of way of provincial Highway no. 16.
That part of district lot 1382 lying north of seeley lake.
The whole park containing approximately 24 hectares.
Seton portage historic park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1, district lot 1592, plan 18256.
The whole park containing approximately 1 hectare.
Seven sisters park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Range 5, coast district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1840.
The whole park containing approximately 27 200 hectares.
Shannon falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
That part of district lot 608 as shown on an unregistered plan, drawing No. d-626 (j. 83511) produced by hermon, bunbury, & oke, b.c.l.s., And dated march 2, 1983; except the land required for the widening of Garibaldi highway no. 99 as shown on ministry of transportation Reference plan no. r10447-65 on file in the ministry of transportation Regional office, new westminster, and preliminary land title office plan From bunbury & associates land surveyor file w-3286-2 and on deposit In victoria, ministry of environment; Reference plan no. r10447-51 on file in ministry of transportation Regional office, new westminster; Parcel b of district lot 608, explanatory plan 7565; That part of parcel c of district lot 608, explanatory plan 7665, lying East of the squamish highway; Parcel h of district lot 608, explanatory plan 7565; except (1) the Crown land that is the subject of that part included in the unregistered Plan drawing no. d-626 (j. 83511) and (2) the land required for the Widening of garibaldi highway no. 99 as shown on ministry of Transportation reference plan no. r10447-65 on file in the ministry of Transportation regional office, new westminster; District lot 3538, except the crown land that is the subject of plans 2624, 10597 and 20152.
The whole park containing approximately 86 hectares.
Shuswap lake marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Albas site Firstly: district lots 3410 and 2831; Fractional legal subdivisions 12 & 13 of section 1, township 26, Range 8, w6m; Fractional legal subdivision 9, fractional legal subdivision 11, the Easterly 121 metres of fractional legal subdivision 12, that part of Fractional legal subdivision 15 lying east of bcfs road (project 724,03) & legal subdivision 16 all of section 2, township 26, range. 8, w6m, Blocks a & b of legal subdivision 15 of section 2, township 26, Range 8, w6m, l a of legal subdivision 10 of section 2, township 26, Range 8, w6m, pl. 20185 except parcels a & b (h59221); Parcel b (h59221) of legal subdivision 10 of section 2, township 26, Range 8, w6m.
Secondly: that part of the road allowance within legal subdivision 15 of Section 2, township 26, range 8 w6m described as commencing at the Northeast corner of block a of legal subdivision 15; Thence northeast in a straight line to the northwest corner of block b Of legal subdivision 15; Thence southerly along the west boundary of block b to the southerly Boundary of legal subdivision 15; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary to the southeast corner of Block a of legal subdivision 15; Thence north along the east boundary of block a to the point of Commencement.
Thirdly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 5828, being A point on the natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence easterly along the north boundary of district lot 5828; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to a point lying 100 metres due East of the southeast corner of district lot 5828; Thence in a general southerly then westerly direction along a line Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly Shore natural boundary of shuswap lake to a point on the line lying due South of a point on the natural boundary, the point on the natural Boundary lies 121 metres west and approximately 340 metres south from The northeast corner of legal subdivision 12 of section 2, township 26, Range 8, w6m; Thence due north to the natural boundary; Thence in a general easterly then northerly direction along the natural Boundary of shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 124 hectares (101 hectares of upland and 23 hectares of foreshore).
Aline hill site Commencing at the witness post in a stone mound on the southerly Boundary of section 10, township 23, range 8, w6m as shown on dominion Township plan of the southwest 1/4 of township 23, range 8, w6m dated at Ottawa, november 22, 1911; Thence due east to a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap Lake to a point lying due east of a point lying 804.7 metres due north Of the point of commencement; Thence due west to a point on the upland being parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap Lake;
Thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake at the Point lying due west of the point of commencement; Thence due east to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 20 hectares (10 hectares of upland and 10 hectares of foreshore).
Anstey view site Firstly: fractional southeast 1/4 of legal subdivision 10 and the Fractional east 1/2 of legal subdivision 7 of section 12, township 24, Range 8, w6m, kamloops division, yale district.
Secondly: commencing at a point lying 360 metres east and approximately 201 metres north of the southwest corner of legal subdivision 10 of Section 12, township 24, range 8, w6m, being a point on the westerly Shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence due east 100 metres; Thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap lake to a point lying due east of a point described as lying 201 Metres east and approximately 70 metres north of the southwest corner of Legal subdivision 7 of section 12, township 24, range 8, w6m; Thence due west to the described point, being also a point on the Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 12.5 hectares (6.5 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Beach bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1885.
The whole site containing approximately 67 hectares (50 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).
Bughouse bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1876.
The whole site containing approximately 34 hectares (13 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).
Cottonwood beach site Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap lake, lying due north a distance Of 260 metres and due west a distance of approximately 20 metres from The southwest corner of the fractional northeast 1/4 of section 35, Township 24, range 8, w6m, as shown on dominion township plan of Northeast 1/4 of township 24, dated at ottawa, may 9, 1912; Thence due east to a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap lake; Thence in a southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap Lake to a point lying due south a distance of 380 metres and due west a Distance of approximately 640 metres from the southwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 of the section 35; Thence southeast along a straight line a distance of 200 metres to a Point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant From the natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap lake, on the Easterly shore of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Seymour arm of shuswap lake to a point lying due west of the point of Commencement;
Thence due east to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 12 hectares (6 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Encounter point site Commencing at the iron post and stone mound set at the southwest corner Of fractional section 14, township 25, range 8, w6m, as shown on Dominion township plan of southeast 1/4 of township 25, range 8, w6m, Dated at ottawa, may 9, 1912; Thence due west a distance of 100.6 metres; Thence due south a distance of 402.3 metres; Thence due west a distance of 100 metres; Thence due south a distance of 402.3 metres; Thence due east a distance of approximately 140 metres to the westerly Shore natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap lake, and continuing Due east along the bed of shuswap lake to a point on a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly Shore natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap lake; Thence northerly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of seymour arm of Shuswap lake to a point lying due east of the witness post marking the Northwest corner of the fractional southwest 1/4 of section 14; Thence due west crossing the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap Lake to the witness post; Thence southerly in a straight line to the iron post and stone mound set At the southwest corner of fractional section 14, being the point of Commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 41 hectares (23 hectares of upland and 18 hectares of foreshore).
Fowler point site Firstly: the fractional west 1/2 of section 18, township 26, range 7, W6m.
Secondly: commencing at the most southerly southeast corner of district Lot 2920, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence due east 100 metres; Thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the point of Intersection of the easterly boundary of district lot 2912 with the Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence northwesterly 100 metres to the point of intersection of the Easterly boundary of district lot 2912; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 21.4 hectares (8.9 hectares of upland and 12.5 hectares of foreshore).
Hermit bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 37 tube 1809.
The whole site containing approximately 78 hectares (57 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).
Horseshoe bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1893.
The whole site containing approximately 9.83 hectares (4.25 hectares of upland and 5.58 hectares of foreshore).
Hungry cove site Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of anstey arm of shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap lake, lying due south a distance Of 460 metres and due west a distance of approximately 210 metres from The southeast corner of block c, section 22, township 22, range 8, w6m As shown on official plan 2t775 on file with the surveyor general of British columbia; Thence due west along the bed of shuswap lake to a point on a line Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of anstey arm of shuswap lake; Thence southerly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying due north a distance of 201.2 metres and due west a distance Of approximately 563 metres from the southeast corner of fractional Section 16, township 22, range 8, w6m as shown on dominion township plan Of the southwest 1/4, township 22, range 8, w6m, dated at ottawa, October 21, 1919;
Thence due east to a point on the natural boundary of shuswap lake and Continuing due east to a point lying due north a distance of 201.2 Metres, and due east a distance of approximately 201.2 metres from the Southeast corner of fractional section 16; Thence due north a distance of 1.01 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 201.2 metres; Thence due north a distance of 803.5 metres; Thence due east a distance of 100.6 metres; Thence due north to a point lying due east of the point of commencement; Thence due west to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 86.2 hectares (62.2 hectares of upland and 24 hectares of foreshore).
Mara point site Firstly: that part of fractional legal subdivision 14, section 24, Township 21, range 8, w6m lying east of plan a-402, being the canadian Pacific railway right of way.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the north boundary Of fractional legal subdivision 14, section 24, township 21, range 8, W6m and the westerly natural boundary of mara lake; Thence east 100 metres along the easterly production of the north Boundary of fractional legal subdivision 14, section 24, township 21, Range 8, w6m to the point of intersection with a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly natural boundary of Mara lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along that line to a point being Due east of the most southerly point of that part of fractional legal Subdivision 14, section 24, township 21, range 8, w6m, lying east of Plan a-402, being the canadian pacific railway right of way; Thence due west to the point of intersection with the westerly natural Boundary of mara lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the westerly natural Boundary of mara lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 5.8 hectares (3.8 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Marble point site Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of block a, section 22, Township 22, range 8, w6m as shown on official plan 2t775 on file with The surveyor general of british columbia and being on the natural Boundary of salmon arm of shuswap lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap Lake;
Thence due west to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distance from the natural boundary of salmon arm of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Salmon arm of shuswap lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly Distant in a straight line from the northwest corner of district lot 1851; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District lot 1851, being a point on the easterly shore natural boundary Of shuswap lake; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of district lots 1851 and 1850 to the most southeast corner Of district lot 1850; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 153°01'15" to a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to a point lying due east a distance of 402 metres and due North a distance of approximately 260 metres from the northeast corner Of fractional east 1/2 of southwest 1/4, section 34, township 22, range 8, w6m; Thence due south to a point lying due east of the northeast corner of Fractional east 1/2 of southwest 1/4, section 34, township 22, range 8, W6m; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of Fractional west 1/2 of northwest 1/4, section 27, township 22, range 8, W6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the fractional west 1/2 To the southeast corner of the fractional west 1/2; Thence due south a distance of 201 metres; Thence due west to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of salmon arm of Shuswap lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Salmon arm of shuswap lake to a point lying due east of the northeast Corner of block a, section 22, township 22, range 8, w6m; Thence due west to the northeast corner of block a and continuing Westerly along the northerly boundary of block a to the northwest of Block a, being the point of commencement.
Secondly: commencing at the most southerly corner of district lot 1852; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1852 to the Northwest corner of district lot 1852, being a point on the natural Boundary of salmon arm of shuswap lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap Lake;
Thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of salmon arm of shuswap lake lying 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the northwest corner of district lot 1852; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from The most northerly corner of district lot 1853; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most northerly corner of District lot 1853 and continuing southeasterly along the northeasterly Boundary of district lot 1853 to the most easterly corner of district Lot 1853;
Thence southwesterly along the southeasterly boundaries of district lots 1853 and 1852 to the most southerly corner of district lot 1852, being The point of commencement.
Thirdly: commencing at the northeast corner of block a of district lot 6056; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 6056 to the Northwest corner of district lot 6056, being a point on the natural Boundary of salmon arm of shuswap lake; Thence due west to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of salmon arm of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Salmon arm of shuswap lake to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly Distant from the northwest corner of district lot 6057; Thence easterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of district Lot 6057, being a point on the natural boundary of salmon arm of shuswap Lake;
Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of district lots 6057 and 6056 to the northeast corner of Block a of district lot 6056, being the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 174.9 hectares (111.7 hectares of upland and 63.2 hectares of foreshore).
Nielsen beach site Commencing at a point on the natural boundary of seymour arm of shuswap Lake, on the easterly shore of shuswap lake, lying due west a distance Of approximately 362 metres from the iron post set at the northeast Corner of fractional section 3, township 24, range 8, w6m as shown on Dominion township plan of the southeast 1/4 of township 24, range 8, W6m, dated at ottawa, april 30, 1912; Thence due west along the bed of shuswap lake to a point on a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary;
Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of seymour arm of Shuswap lake to a point lying due south a distance of 805 metres and due West a distance of approximately 120 metres from the northeast corner of Fractional section 3, township 24, range 8, w6m; Thence due east to the easterly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake And continuing due east to a point lying due south of the iron post set In at the northeast corner of fractional section 3; Thence due north a distance of 503 metres; Thence due west to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence northwesterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying due east from the point of commencement; Thence due west to the point of commencement, being a point on the Easterly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake.
The whole site containing approximately 17.6 hectares (9.1 hectares of upland and 8.5 hectares of foreshore).
Paradise point site Firstly: legal subdivisions 15 and 16 and fractional legal subdivision 9 Of section 22, township 21, range 9, w6m and the fractional northwest 1/4 of section 23, township 21, range 9, w6m.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly Boundary of section 23, township 21, range 9, w6m with the westerly Shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly 100 metres perpendicular to the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying 100 metres from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the point of Intersection of the natural boundary of shuswap lake with the westerly Boundary of legal subdivision 9 of section 22, township 21, range 9, W6m; Thence northwesterly 100 metres to that point of intersection; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 65.5 hectares (53 hectares of upland and 12.5 hectares of foreshore).
Roberts bay site Firstly: lot 1, section 8, township 24, range 7, w6m, plan kap64470.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the north boundary Of lot 1 of fractional section 8, township 24, range 7, w6m, plan Kap64470 and the easterly natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence westerly 100 metres along the westerly production of the north Boundary of lot 1 to the point of intersection with a line parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly natural Boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along that line to a point lying Due west of the most southerly point of lot 1, section 8, township 24, Range 7, w6m, plan kap64470; Thence due east to the point of intersection with the easterly natural Boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly natural Boundary of shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 26 hectares (21 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).
[ Shuswap lake east site . description repealed 2005-35-31.] St. ives site Commencing at the northeast corner of fractional legal subdivision 13 of Section 20, township 23, range 8, w6m and being on the westerly shore Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of fractional legal Subdivision 13 to the northwest corner of fractional legal subdivision 13; Thence due north 100 metres; Thence due east 200 metres; Thence due north 100 metres; Thence due east to the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake And continuing easterly in a straight line along the bed of shuswap lake To a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along a line parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake To the point lying due east of the point of commencement; Thence due west to the point of commencement; Except the ministry of forests and range forest service road shown on Plan 7 tube 2001 deposited in the crown land registry.
The whole site containing approximately 4.7 hectares (2.7 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Swall site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1893.
The whole site containing approximately 7 hectares (4 hectares Of upland and 3 hectares of foreshore).
Tiilis beach site Commencing at the northwest corner of the fractional southwest 1/4 of Section 32, township 22, range 8, w6m; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the fractional southwest 1/4 of section 32 to an iron post as shown on dominion township plan of The northwest 1/4 of township 22, range 8, w6m, dated at ottawa, june 21, 1922, being 404.8 metres from the northeast corner; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 89°56' to the westerly shore Natural boundary of shuswap lake and continuing along the bed of shuswap Lake to a point parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from The natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence along a line parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant From the natural boundary of shuswap lake to the intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the northerly boundary of the fractional Southwest 1/4 of section 32; Thence westerly along the easterly prolongation of the northerly Boundary of section 32 to the northwest corner of section 32, being a Point on the natural boundary of shuswap lake and continuing westerly Along the northerly boundary of the fractional southwest 1/4 of section 32 to the northwest corner of section 32, being the point of Commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 27 hectares (23 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Twin bays site Firstly: fractional legal subdivision 1 of section 19, and fractional Legal subdivision 4 of section 20, township 24, range 7, w6m.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the northerly Boundary of legal subdivision 4 of section 20, township 24, range 7, w6m To the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a southeasterly direction 100 metres perpendicular to the Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southwesterly direction parallel to and distant 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake To a point lying due east of the most southerly southeast corner of Legal subdivision 1 of section 19, township 24, range 7, w6m; Thence due west to the most southerly southeast corner of legal Subdivision 1, being also a point on the natural boundary of shuswap Lake;
Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of shuswap lake to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 15.3 hectares (7.3 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).
Two mile creek site Firstly: fractional legal subdivision 4 and that portion of legal Subdivision 5 lying south of two mile creek, section 35, township 25, Range 8, w6m.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the right bank of Two mile creek with the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly 100 metres perpendicular to the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake to a Point lying due east of the intersection of the southerly boundary of Section 35, township 25, range 8, w6m with the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence due east 100 metres to that point; Thence northerly along the natural boundary of shuswap lake to the point Of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 17.1 hectares (8.1 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).
Woods landing site Commencing at a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap Lake lying due south 280 metres and due west approximately 25 metres From the southwest corner of district lot 5826; Thence due west 105 metres to a point lying due east approximately 15 Metres from the centerline of the woods landing access road; Thence due north 840 metres; Thence due east to the natural boundary of shuswap lake and continuing In a straight line along the bed of shuswap lake to a point parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along a line parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of shuswap lake To a point lying due east of the point of commencement; Thence due west to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 17 hectares (9 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).
Woods landing south site Commencing at a point lying due south 895 metres and due west Approximately 1 320 metres from the southwest corner of the southeast 1/4 of section 22, township 24, range 8, w6m, being a point on the Westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence due west 120 metres; Thence due south 500 metres; Thence due east to the natural boundary of shuswap lake and continuing In a straight line along the bed of shuswap lake to a point on a line Drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant to the natural boundary of shuswap lake To a point lying due east of the point of commencement; Thence due west to the point of commencement.
The whole site containing approximately 10.5 hectares (5.5 hectares of upland and 5 hectares of foreshore).
The whole park containing approximately 894.33 hectares (600.05 hectares of upland and 294.28 hectares of foreshore).
Shuswap lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1978.
The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares (120 hectares of upland and 34 hectares of foreshore).
Silver beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of block e of district lot 612, as shown on plan 11425; Thence southwesterly along the westerly boundary of block e of district Lot 612, plan 11425 and the southwesterly prolongation of the westerly Boundary of block e of district lot 612, plan 11425, produced to the Intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of seymour arm of Shuswap lake, on the northerly shore of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly, northerly and southeasterly along a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of seymour arm of shuswap lake to the intersection with a Straight line drawn southwesterly on a bearing of 194° from the Southeast corner of lot 6 of district lot 663, plan 5824; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 14° to the Southeast corner of lot 6 of district lot 663, plan 5824; Thence northerly along the most easterly boundary of lot 6, plan 5824, To a point lying 237 metres southerly from the most easterly northeast Corner of lot 6, plan 5824, along the most easterly boundary of lot 6; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 287° a distance Of 83.8 metres; Thence due north a distance of 91.4 metres; Thence due east to the most easterly boundary of lot 6 of district lot 663, plan 5824; Thence northerly along the most easterly boundary of lot 6, plan 5824, To the most easterly northeast corner of lot 6; Thence westerly and northerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of lot 6, plan 5824, and continuing northerly along the Northerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of lot 6, plan 5824, Produced to the right bank natural boundary of seymour river; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of seymour river to the northerly boundary of district lot 663; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 663 to a Point lying due north of the northeast corner of lot 3 of block 2 of District lot 663, plan 562; Thence due south to the northeast corner of lot 3 of block 2, plan 562; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of lot 3 of block 2, plan 652 to the most northerly southeast corner of lot 3, being a point on The right bank natural boundary of seymour river; Thence southwesterly along the right bank natural boundary of seymour River, to the most southerly southeast corner of lot 3 of block 2, plan 562, being a point; Thence westerly along the southerly boundaries of lot 3 of block 2, plan 562 and lot a of district lot 663, plan kap 48203 to the southwest Corner of lot a, plan kap 48203; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of lot a, plan kap 48203 And the northerly production of lot a, produced to the northerly Boundary of district lot 663; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of district lot 663 to the northeast corner of block e of District lot 612, plan 11425, being a point on the westerly boundary of District lot 663; Thence northwesterly along the northerly boundary of block e, plan 11425, to the northwest corner of block e, being the point of Commencement.
Secondly: commencing at the southwest corner of lot 21 of district lot 2946, as shown on plan 7643, being a point on the northerly shore Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence due south along the bed of shuswap lake to a point on a line Drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the Northerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the northerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap lake to a point lying due south of the southeast corner of lot 22 of district lot 2946, plan 7634; Thence due north to the southeast corner of lot 22, plan 7634 and Continuing westerly along the northerly boundaries of lots 16 to 21 of District lot 2946, plan 7634, to the northwest corner of lot 21 of District lot 2946, plan 7634; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of lot 21, plan 7634, to The southwest corner of lot 21, being the point of commencement.
Thirdly: that portion of district lot 2946, shown dedicated as "park" on Plan 10404 together with all that foreshore or land covered by water, More particularly described as commencing at the southeast corner of lot A of district lot 2946, as shown on plan 15335, being a point on the Natural boundary of shuswap lake, on the westerly shore of shuswap lake; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 110° to a line Drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the Westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to a point lying due south of the southeast corner of lot 2 Of district lot 946, plan 10404, being a point on the natural boundary Of shuswap lake; Thence due north to the natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the northerly shore Natural boundary of shuswap lake to the southeast corner of lot a of District lot 2946, plan 15335, being a point on the natural boundary, And the point of commencement.
Fourthly: commencing at the southeast corner of lot 3 of district lot 2946, as shown on plan 15424, being a point on the northerly shore Natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of lot 3, plan 15424, To the southwest corner of lot a of district lot 946, plan 32136; Thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of lot a, plan 32136, To the southeast corner of lot a, being a point on the westerly boundary Of seymour arm road; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of seymour arm road, as Shown on plan 7634, and continuing southerly along the southerly Prolongation of the westerly boundary of seymour arm road, produced for A distance of 61 metres; Thence due west to a point lying due south of the point of commencement; Thence due north to the southeast corner of lot 3 of district lot 2946, Plan 15424, being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Shuswap lake, and the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 129.8 hectares (101.2 hectares of upland and 28.6 hectares of foreshore).
Silver lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Those lands which are adjacent to silver lake and contained within an Area contained by a line drawn parallel to and 201.2 metres Perpendicularly distant from the high water mark of silver lake except Those parts contained within the described boundaries of lot 1513.
The whole park containing approximately 76.89 hectares.
Silver star park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1876; except (1) silver star road right of way as shown on Ministry of highways drawings numbered 67/1306-2 and 67/1306-3 filed in The vernon highway district office (gazetted july 12, 1984); and (2) Sovereign lake access road as shown on crown land registry plan 1 Tube 1533.
The whole park containing approximately 5 573 hectares.
Simson park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
District lots 1540, 2070, 2071 and 2436.
The whole park containing approximately 461 hectares.
Sir alexander mackenzie park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 1361.
The whole park containing 5.261 hectares.
Skagit valley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at international boundary monument no. 73, being the Southwesterly corner of e.c. manning park; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of shawatum Mountain, being the westerly boundary of e.c. manning park; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly boundary Of the watershed of shawatum creek to the point of intersection with the Southerly boundary of the watershed of twentysix mile creek; Thence northwesterly along the southerly boundary of the watershed of Twentysix mile creek to the summit of mount brice; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 2°30' a distance of approximately 3.5 kilometres to a point on the height of land lying westerly of Hatchethead mountain; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of District lot 1725; Thence northwesterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1725 To a point lying parallel to and 250 metres perpendicularly distant from The left bank natural boundary of skagit river; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 250 metres perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural Boundary of skagit river to the point of intersection with the boundary Of e. c. manning park; Thence northwesterly along the boundary of e. c. manning park to its Intersection with the easterly boundary of section 13, township 3, range 24, w6m; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of section 13 to the height of land that forms the northerly Boundary of the watershed of the skagit river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the northerly Watershed boundary of the skagit river to a point lying due north of the Northeast corner of lot 410; Thence due south to the northeast corner of lot 410; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of lot 410 to the height of land that forms the easterly Watershed boundary of maselpanik creek; Thence southerly along that height of land to the international Boundary;
Thence easterly along the international boundary to boundary monument No. 73, being the point of commencement; Except (1) skagit river forest ecological reserve; (2) ross lake Ecological reserve; (3) skagit river cottonwoods ecological reserve; and (4) skagit river rhododendrons ecological reserve.
The whole park containing approximately 27 964 hectares.
Skihist park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1995; except the trans-canada highway no. 1, as shown on the Official plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 996 and plan 13 tube 1615.
The whole park containing approximately 386 hectares.
Skookumchuck narrows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 1577, being A point on the westerly shore natural boundary of skookumchuck narrows; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1577 to a Point lying 422.5 metres distant from the southwest corner of district Lot 1577;
Thence due north a distance of 360 metres; Thence due west to a point lying due south of a point on the southerly Boundary of district lot 6257 lying 50 metres distant from the southeast Corner of district lot 6257; Thence due north to the southerly boundary of district lot 6257; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 6257 to the southwest corner of district lot 5943; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 5943 to the Westerly boundary of district lot 5944; Thence southerly, easterly and northerly along the westerly, southerly And easterly boundaries of district lot 5944 to the southwest corner of District lot 5942; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 5942 to the Westerly boundary of district lot 1577; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1577 to a Point lying due west of the southwest corner of block a of district lot 1577, as shown on reference plan 2929; Thence due east to the southwest corner of block a of district lot 1577, Reference plan 2929; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of block a of district lot 1577, reference plan 2929, to the Northeast corner of block a of district lot 1577, being a point on the Westerly shore natural boundary of skookumchuck narrows; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the westerly shore Natural boundary of skookumchuck narrows to the southeast corner of District lot 1577, being a point on the natural boundary of skookumchuck Narrows, and the point of commencement.
Secondly: district lot 2991, except plan 19477.
Thirdly: boom islet and sechelt islets, the seven unsurveyed islets Situated in skookumchuck narrows and lying adjacent to district lot 1577.
The whole park containing approximately 123 hectares.
Sleeping beauty mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1886.
The whole park containing approximately 298 hectares.
Slim creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 20 tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 506 hectares.
Small inlet marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2010.
The whole park containing approximately 878 hectares (753 hectares of upland and 125 hectares of foreshore).
Small river caves park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1843.
The whole park containing approximately 1 818 hectares.
Smelt bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 20 tube 1919; except The public road shown on plan 7327.
The whole park containing approximately 20 hectares (18 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Smuggler cove marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1912.
The whole park containing approximately 185 hectares (168 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).
Sooke potholes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in otter district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot a, sections 22 and 74, plan 25239.
That part of lot 20, of section 74, plan 1419 lying to the west of the Canadian northern pacific railway right of way, through lot 20, as the Canadian northern pacific railway right of way is shown on plan 1419.
That part of section 25, on the northwest by lot 3, plan 11386, on the East by the east boundary of section 25, on the south by lot a, plan 22276 and on the west by a boundary joining a point on the southeasterly Boundary of lot 3 distant 15.24 metres from the most southerly corner of Lot 3 and a point on the northerly boundary of lot a distant 18.29 Metres from the northwesterly corner of lot a.
The whole park containing approximately 7.28 hectares.
South texada island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in texada island district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most easterly northeast corner of district lot 343, Being a point on the southeasterly natural boundary of texada island; Thence westerly, northerly and westerly along the northerly, easterly And northerly boundaries of district lot 343 to the northwest corner of District lot 343; Thence on a bearing of 318° a distance of approximately 530 metres to a Point lying due south of the southwest corner of district lot 339; Thence due north to the southwest corner of district lot 339; Thence on a bearing of 27° a distance of 880 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of an unnamed Mountain lying approximately 160 metres due south and approximately 1.05 Kilometres due east of the summit of mount shepherd; Thence on a bearing of 311° a distance of 2.25 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 220 metres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the interior corner of District lot 476; Thence on a bearing of 185° to the southwesterly natural boundary of Texada island; Thence in general southeasterly and northeasterly directions along the Southwesterly and southeasterly natural boundaries of texada island to The most easterly northeast corner of district lot 343, being the point Of commencement; Except (1) lot 1 of district lot 343, plan 13967; (2) block a of District lot 343, plan 5380; (3) mineral claim "premier north 10" 331485; and (4) mineral claim "premier north 11" 331486.
The whole park containing approximately 900 hectares.
Sowchea bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lots 1 to 8 of district lot 651, plan 1394.
Secondly: the unsurveyed foreshore of stuart lake described as Commencing at the point of intersection of the northeast corner of lot 8 Of district lot 651, plan 1394 and the natural boundary of stuart lake; Thence due north 100 metres; Thence westerly in a straight line to the point of intersection of the Northwest corner of lot 1 of district lot 651, plan 1394 and the natural Boundary of stuart lake; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Stuart lake to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 13 hectares (4 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).
Spatsizi headwaters park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1867.
The whole park containing approximately 427 hectares.
Spatsizi plateau wilderness park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1962; except (1) mineral claim "al 5" 221994; (2) mineral claim "al 6" 221995; (3) Mineral claim "bull" 222123; (4) mineral claim "hyuk 1 fr" 222360; (5) Mineral claim "hyuk 3 fr" 222362; (6) mineral claim "a1 42" 302923; (7) Mining lease 314708; (8) coal lease "12" 389292; (9) any land that was Subject to forfeited mining lease 306619; (10) any land over which the Following forfeited mineral claims were located: mineral claim "a1 1" 221814, mineral claim "a1 7" 222088, mineral claim "a1 8" 222089, Mineral claim "metsantan #2" 238253, mineral claim "surprise" 238476, Mineral claim "wankle" 238473, mineral claim "mets 4" 311918, mineral Claim "met 8" 340458, mineral claim "new 2" 357276, mineral claim "mets 5" 357277, and mineral claim "met 1" 360359; and (11) gladys lake Ecological reserve as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown Land registry as plan 14 tube 1961.
The whole park containing approximately 698 659 hectares.
Spectacle lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in malahat district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 31 tube 1935.
The whole park containing approximately 67 hectares.
Spider lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district and Newcastle district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Lot 1, block 184, plan 34682.
The whole park containing approximately 64.59 hectares.
Spipiyus park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1766.
The whole park containing approximately 2 979 hectares.
Sproat lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1, district lot 35, 52 and 98, plan 14235.
Lot 1, district lot 35, plan 17159, except the crown land that is the Subject of plans 2734rw (consisting of 0.2787 hectares) and 2788rw (consisting of 0.310 hectares).
That part of district lot 35, alberni district, containing approximately 3.53 hectares forming the right of way of the esquimalt and nanaimo Railway company through district lot 35 as shown coloured red on plan 76rw.
The whole park containing approximately 43 hectares.
Squitty bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Section 1-a, lasqueti island; except a 20 metre right of way centred on The existing unsurveyed road.
District lot 268.
Fractional northeast 1/4 of section 3, lasqueti island; except (1) Remainder of lot 1, plan 11580; (2) reference plan 40100; (3) reference Plan 45844; and (4) a 20 metre right of way centred on the existing Unsurveyed road.
The whole park containing approximately 52 hectares.
Stagleap park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of special timber licence (s.t.l.) 10108p, marked by an iron post as shown on highway plan r341; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of s.t.l. 10108p to the Southeast corner of s.t.l. 10108p, and continuing due south to the Northerly boundary of the watershed of monk creek; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the northerly boundary Of the watershed of monk creek to a point lying due east of the pipe Post marking the most southerly southwest corner of district lot 10484 (the survey of which has been cancelled) as shown on highway plan r353; Thence due west to the pipe post; Thence due north to the northerly boundary of the watershed of summit Creek;
Thence westerly along the northerly boundaries of the watersheds of Summit creek and stagleap creek to the easterly boundary of s.t.l.
10105p; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of s.t.l. 10105p to the Northeast corner of s.t.l. 10108p, being the point of commencement; Except southern trans-provincial highway as shown on plan r353.
The whole park containing approximately 1 133 hectares.
Stamp river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at a northwesterly corner of lot 1, block h, District lot 259 e & n, plan 2024, being on the left bank natural Boundary of stamp river; Thence due south to a point being the middle line of stamp river; Thence in general northwesterly direction along the middle line of stamp River to a point lying due south of the southwest corner of lot 10, District lot 262 e & n, plan 1898; Thence due north to the southwest corner of lot 10; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of plan 1898 to the Northwest corner of lot 14, plan 1898; Thence easterly along to the northerly boundary of lot 14, plan 1898 to The northeast corner of lot 14; Thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of lots 14, 13, 12 and 11, plan 1898 to the most northerly northeast corner of lot 10, plan 1898; Thence southeasterly along the easterly boundary of lot 10, plan 1898 to The northwest corner of lot 9, plan 1898; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of lots 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4 And 3, plan 1898 to the northwest corner of lot 2, plan 1898; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of lot 2, plan 1898 and Continuing along the westerly boundary of lot a, district lot 265 e & n, plan vip 53095 to the northwesterly corner of lot 1, block h, District lot 259 e & n, plan 2084, being the point of commencement; Except (1) lot 10, district lot 262 e & n, plan 1898; and (2) Roadway identified as barker road.
Secondly: lots 1, 4 and 5, block h, district lot 259 e & n, plan 2024.
Lot 2, block h, district lot 259 e & n, plan 2024, except plan 8374.
Lot 3, block h, district lot 259 e & n, plan 2024, except the road Right of way as shown on ministry of transportation's drawing 63-03-01a.
Thirdly: district lot 80 e & n, except the north 804.7 metres (40 Chains) of district lot 80 shown coloured red on plan deposited under D.d. 64518-i.
Fourthly: commencing at the most southerly southwest corner of district Lot 80 e & n, being on the left bank natural boundary of stamp River;
Thence due west to the southeast corner of district lot 193 e & n, Being on the right bank natural boundary of stamp river; Thence westerly, northerly and easterly along the southerly, westerly And northerly boundaries of district lot 193 to a point on the right Bank natural boundary of stamp river; Thence due east to the middle line of stamp river; Thence northerly along the middle line of stamp river to a point lying Due south of the southerly prolongation of the westerly boundary of lot 1, block h, district lot 259 e & n, plan 2024; Thence due north to the left bank natural boundary of stamp river; Thence southerly along the left bank natural boundary of stamp river to The most southerly southwest corner of district lot 80 e & n, being The point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 327 hectares.
[ Stawamus chief park . description repealed 2011-27-14.] Steelhead park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
District lot 399 as described in 244302f, except plans 8814, a10496, 21524, 33089, h302 and kap48717; All those parts of the north 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of section 32, Township 20, range 21, w6m, which are not covered by any of the waters Of the thompson river, except plan a446, that part lying south of plan A446 and parcel a, plan a786; All that part of the southeast 1/4 of section 5, township 21, range 21, W6m, which is bounded on the north by the southern limit of district lot 399 and on the west by the left bank of the thompson river: pid 014-527-201.
The whole park containing approximately 38.3 hectares.
Stemwinder park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the following described boundaries:
Sub-lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of lot 1968, shown on plan 4708.
The whole park containing approximately 3.62 hectares.
Stikine river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1875; except (1) district lot 371; (2) ministry of transportation's gravel reserve "mehaus" 2129; (3) ministry of transportation's gravel reserve "stikine North" 2105; (4) ministry of transportation's gravel reserve "stikine South" 2106; (5) a 100 metre right of way centred on highway 37; (6) a 60 metre right of way centred on telegraph creek road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway; and (7) that parcel of crown land commencing at the northwest Corner of district lot 371, thence northerly to utm north 6433500 metres East 440880 metres, thence easterly to utm north 6433600 metres east 442130 metres, thence southerly to utm north 6433300 metres east 442130 Metres, thence westerly to the easterly boundary of district lot 371 at Utm north 6433300 metres, thence northerly and westerly along the Easterly and northerly boundaries of district lot 371 to the northwest Corner of district lot 371.
The whole park containing approximately 257 177 hectares.
Stone mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at standard pipe post no. 231 set on the northerly boundary Of alaska highway right of way at approximately mile 390, as shown on Plan h464; Thence due north to the northerly boundary of the watershed of north Tetsa river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the northerly Boundaries of the watersheds of north tetsa river and macdonald creek, Passing through the summit of mount st. paul, to the headwaters of an Unnamed creek which flows southwesterly into macdonald creek at a point Near the mouth of one ten creek; Thence southwesterly to and along the right bank natural boundary of an Unnamed creek to its intersection with the right bank natural boundary Of macdonald creek; Thence westerly along the right bank natural boundary of macdonald creek To a point lying due north of the intersection of the natural boundaries Of macdonald creek with the left bank natural boundary of one ten creek; Thence due south to the intersection of the natural boundaries of Macdonald creek; Thence in a general southerly direction along the left bank natural Boundary of one ten creek to the headwaters of one ten creek; Thence due east to the westerly boundary of the watershed of macdonald Creek;
Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of The watershed of macdonald creek to the summit of mount st. magnus, Being a point; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the easterly boundary Of the watershed of macdonald creek, the southeasterly boundary of the Watershed of the mainstream of north tetsa river and the southeasterly Boundary of the watershed of the unnamed creek flowing in a general Northerly direction into north tetsa river at a point approximately 1.3 Kilometres easterly from the most easterly point of summit lake, to a Point lying due south of the point of commencement; Thence due north to standard pipe post no. 231 set on the northerly Boundary of alaska highway right of way at approximately mile 390, as Shown on plan h464, being the point of commencement; Except (1) district lots 1625, 1626 and 1627; and (2) alaska highway Right of way as shown on plans h464, h497 and h516.
The whole park containing approximately 25 690 hectares.
Strathcona park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district, Comox district, nelson district, nootka district, rupert district and Sayward district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 2003; except (1) moyehai indian reserve 23; (2) watta indian Reserve 25; (3) wappook indian reserve 26; (4) highway 28; (5) buttle Lake bridge approaches as shown on ministry of transportation's drawing 64-04-01 dated december 8, 1983; (6) a 30 metre right of way Centred on the road within gold river drainage as shown on plan titled "elimination from kyuquot forest 920-3-12" dated october 16, 1980 on File with the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations; (7) ash river main road; and (8) statutory right of way plan Over part of lot 1, block 121, comox district, plan 13634, as shown on Plan vip80052.
The whole park containing approximately 248 669 hectares (247 961 hectares of upland and 708 hectares of Foreshore).
Stuart lake marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Jus k'etl'o bay site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1874.
The whole site containing approximately 70 hectares (41 hectares of upland and 29 hectares of foreshore).
North arm site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1874.
The whole site containing approximately 23 hectares (9 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Two islands site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1874.
The whole site containing approximately 134 hectares (72 hectares of upland and 62 hectares of foreshore).
The whole park containing approximately 227 hectares (122 hectares of upland and 105 hectares of foreshore).
Stuart lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1808; Except the 30 metre right of way identified as tachie road 207.
The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares.
[ Sudeten park.
Description repealed 2006-15-33.] Sue channel park Hawkesbury island site All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1887.
The whole site containing approximately 73 hectares (36 hectares of upland and 37 hectares of foreshore).
Loretta island site All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1887.
The whole site containing approximately 136 hectares (49 hectares of upland and 87 hectares of foreshore).
The whole park containing approximately 209 hectares (85 hectares of upland and 124 hectares of foreshore).
Sugarbowl-grizzly den park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1846; except (1) the land that is subject to a 100 metre right of way centred on Highway 16; (2) the land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of transportation's longworth access road no. 4034; And (3) the land that is subject to ministry of transportation's gravel Reserve quar7402109.
The whole park containing approximately 22 529 hectares.
Sukunka falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point lying 190 metres west and 1.32 kilometres north of The confluence of the east bank natural boundary of burnt river and the West bank natural boundary of sukunka river; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line parallel to and 400 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary Of sukunka river a distance of 6.15 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of approximately 1 kilometre to the point of Intersection with the west boundary of sukunka road; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the west boundary of Sukunka road to a point lying due east of the point of commencement; Thence due west a distance of approximately 560 metres to the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 360 hectares.
Summit lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1920.
The whole park containing approximately 5.83 hectares.
[ Sunnybrae park.
Description repealed 2005-35-32.] Sun-oka beach park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lot 1752.
Secondly: those parts of parcels 1 and 2, c.l.s.r. plan 1477 b.c. and Parts of c.l.s.r. plan 597 b.c., contain 0.56 hectares, 5.12 hectares and 9.19 hectares, respectively, as the same are Shown on a plan of survey drawn by r.w. thorpe, b.c.l.s., and sworn to By him on the fifth day of april 1965, at victoria, in the province of British columbia and shown on plan 16 tube 748 deposited in the Crown land registry; except the road shown on plan 2 tube 1550 on Deposit in the crown land registry.
Thirdly: all that part of lot 4885 described as commencing at the most Southerly point of the southerly part of parcel 1 of c.l.s.r. plan 1477 B.c. lying on the natural boundary of okanagan lake; Thence southeasterly 36°35'10" to the southerly boundary of lot 4885; Thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of lot 4885 to the Southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly boundary of the right of Way shown on plan 68 tube 945; Thence northwesterly along the southeasterly prolongation of the right Of way shown on plan 68 tube 945 to the natural boundary of Okanagan lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of okanagan lake, to the Point of commencement.
Fourthly: commencing at the intersection of the southeasterly Prolongation of the northwest boundary of the right of way shown on plan 68 tube 945, with the natural boundary of okanagan lake; Thence southeasterly 36°39'00" to the southerly boundary of lot 4885; Thence northeasterly along the southerly boundary of lot 4885 to the Most easterly southeast corner of lot 4885; Thence northwesterly along the easterly boundary of lot 4885 to the Natural boundary of okanagan lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of okanagan lake to the Point of commencement.
Fifthly: road easement shown on plan 68 tube 945 on deposit in the Crown land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
Surge narrows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1916.
The whole park containing approximately 515 hectares (206 hectares of upland and 309 hectares of foreshore).
Sustut park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1863.
The whole park containing approximately 75 037 hectares.
Sutherland river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1869; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' Augler-grizzly forest service road 7697.12; (2) forest service gravel Pit s20040-51; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests' road r10010-140, (4) ministry of forests' licence a16823, Cutting permit 306, blocks 1 and 2; (5) ministry of forests' licence A16823, cutting permit 315, blocks 2 and 4; (6) ministry of forests' Licence a16823, cutting permit 330, block nb032; (7) ministry of Forests' licence a16823, cutting permit 235, block be 018; and (8) a 30 Metre right of way centred on the present road access to "nan tl'at" Indian reserve no. 13.
The whole park containing approximately 13 559 hectares.
Swan lake kispiox river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1878; except (1) the crown land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on East taylor forest service road, project 9798.01; and (2) forest licence A16831 - cp 393, block 62.
The whole park containing approximately 62 255 hectares.
Swan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1901; except a 20.1168 metre right of way centred on the public road adjacent to the West boundary of section 25, township 26.
The whole park containing approximately 82 hectares (65 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).
Sẁiẁs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lot 627 of district lot 2450s.
Secondly: lot 2 of district lot 2450s, plan 29024.
Thirdly: all that unsurveyed foreshore and land, covered by the waters Of osoyoos lake, more particularly described as commencing at the Southeast corner of lot 2 of lot 2450s, similkameen division, yale District, plan 29024, being on the westerly shore natural boundary of Osoyoos lake; Thence north 74° east approximately 150 metres; Thence northerly, easterly, northerly and westerly, parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of osoyoos lake To a point lying due north of the most northerly northwest corner of lot 627 of lot 2450s, plan 2778, being also a point on the natural boundary Of osoyoos lake; Thence due south to the northwest corner of lot 627 of lot 2450s, plan 2778 and southerly along the natural boundary of osoyoos lake to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 38 hectares (13 hectares of upland and 25 hectares of foreshore).
S
X̱
Ótsaqel/chilliwack lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 2017.
The whole park containing approximately 9 273 hectares.
[ S
X
ˇ W
Ə
X
ˇ W
Nitk
W
Park [a.k.a. okanagan falls park] . description repealed 2016-14-1.] Sydney inlet park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point lying due east 700 metres and due south Approximately 40 metres from the northeast corner of district lot 316, Being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of stewardson Inlet;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 351° to the intersection with The westerly boundary of the watershed of sydney inlet; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary Of the watershed of sydney inlet to a point lying due west 1.25 Kilometres and due south approximately 100 metres from the southwest Corner of "kishnacous" indian reserve no. 29; Thence on a bearing of 312° a distance of 580 metres; Thence on a bearing of 355° a distance of 280 metres; Thence on a bearing of 49° a distance of approximately 1.0 kilometre to A southwest corner of district lot 653; Thence due east approximately 1.44 kilometres to a point on the westerly Boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek flowing in a general Northwesterly direction into sydney river at a point lying due west 100 Metres and due north approximately 800 metres from the northeast corner Of "kishnacous" indian reserve no. 29; Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of The watershed of an unnamed creek to the intersection with the easterly Boundary of the watershed of sydney inlet; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of the sydney inlet to a point lying due south 1.3 Kilometres and due east approximately 3.2 kilometres from the northeast Corner of district lot 316; Thence due south to a point on the natural boundary of sydney inlet; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 226° to a point on the natural Boundary of sydney inlet on the westerly shore of sydney inlet; Thence due west to the intersection with the westerly boundary of the Watershed of stewardson inlet; Thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the Watershed of stewardson inlet to the intersection with the southerly Boundary of the watershed of stewardson inlet; Thence in a northwesterly direction along the southerly boundary of the Watershed of stewardson inlet to the intersection with the westerly Boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek flowing northerly into Stewardson inlet, being due west 880 metres and due south approximately 1.0 kilometre from the northeast corner of district lot 316; Thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the Watershed of an unnamed creek to the intersection with the southerly Shore natural boundary of stewardson inlet; Thence due north to a point on the southerly shore natural boundary of Darr island, being district lot 393; Thence in a general northerly and westerly direction along the natural Boundary of darr island to a point lying due east 680 metres and due South approximately 120 metres from the northeast corner of lot 316; Thence due north to a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Stewardson inlet lying due east 680 metres from the northeast corner of District lot 316, being the point of commencement; Except "kishnacous" indian reserve no. 29.
The whole park containing approximately 2 774.2 hectares (2 083.2 hectares of upland and 691.0 hectares of Foreshore).
Syringa park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2020.
The whole park containing approximately 4 538 hectares.
Tā ch'ilā park [a.k.a. boya lake park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 2009.
The whole park containing approximately 4 728 hectares.
Tahsish-kwois park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2005.
The whole park containing approximately 10 987 hectares (10 971 hectares of upland and 16 hectares of foreshore).
Takla lake marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Sandy point site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1852.
The whole site containing approximately 160 hectares (115 hectares of upland and 45 hectares of foreshore).
Takla west site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1852.
The whole site containing approximately 41 hectares (31 hectares of upland an 10 hectares of foreshore).
White bluff site The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1852.
The whole site containing approximately 349 hectares (167 hectares of upland and 182 hectares of foreshore).
The whole park containing approximately 550 hectares (313 hectares of upland and 237 hectares of foreshore).
Tatlatui park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the intersection of the left bank natural boundary of Firesteel river with the right bank natural boundary of sturdee river; Thence due west to the northerly boundary of the watershed of firesteel River;
Thence in general westerly, southerly and northeasterly directions along The northerly, westerly and southeasterly boundaries of the watershed of Firesteel river, passing through the summits of stalk peak, kubicek Peak, mount oakes and mount trygve, to the summit of thomas peak, being A point on the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of firesteel River;
Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 105 829 hectares.
Taylor arm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
District lots 2089 and 2091, except the crown land that is the subject Of alberni-tofino highway 4 as identified on right of way plan 2750.
The whole park containing approximately 71 hectares.
Taylor landing park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in township 82, range 18, W6m, peace river district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Lot 1 of section 25, plan 25779.
The whole park containing approximately 2.4 hectares.
Teakerne arm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest corner of District lot 5638 and the natural boundary of teakerne arm; Thence due east 500 metres; Thence due north 1.5 kilometres; Thence due west 1 kilometre; Thence due south to the point of intersection with the natural boundary, Also lying on the northerly boundary of district lot 7077; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 7077 to the southeast corner of district lot 7077; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District lot 7078; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 7078 to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 128 hectares.
Ten mile lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1836; except (1) cariboo highway no. 97, as shown on plans h595, h596, 24007, plan 13 Tube 532, plan 17 tube 538, plan 20 tube 637, and plan 12 Tube 1931; (2) ten mile lake road no. 165 as shown on plan 12 Tube 1931; and (3) bjornson road, as shown on plan 11 Tube 1609 and plan pgp37114.
The whole park containing approximately 343 hectares (328 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).
Three sisters lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1840; except (1) the land that is subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on stone Creek forest service road, project 942.4478.02; and (2) the land that is Subject to a 30 metre right of way centred on a non-status road in the Most southerly southwest corner of the park and joining forest service Road 4478.02 adjacent to quar 7406771.
The whole park containing approximately 968 hectares.
Thunder hill park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
The most southerly 603.6 metres of lot 286, except the right of way for The kootenay central railway as shown on plan 1203 and the 0.13 hectare Area lying to the east of the right of way for the kootenay central Railway and held under certificate of title no. 2965-i in the name of The kootenay central railway and the highway 95 right of way plan r345.
The whole park containing approximately 44 hectares.
Thurston bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1971.
The whole park containing approximately 531 hectares (320 hectares of upland and 211 hectares of foreshore).
Top of the world park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of block g of district lot 4590; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of block g of district lot 4590 to the easterly boundary of forest service road 942-4603-03, being The white-lussier forest road; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of White-lussier forest road to a point lying 1.35 kilometres due south and 190 metres due west of the northwest corner of block g of district lot 4590; Thence due east to the westerly boundary of block g of district lot 4590; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of block g of district lot 4590 to the northerly boundary of the watershed of wild horse river; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of the watershed of wild horse river to a point on the Easterly boundary of the watershed of wild horse river lying due west of The summit of chrysler peak; Thence due east to the summit of chrysler peak, being a point on the Westerly boundary of the watershed of galbraith creek; Thence in a northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of the Watershed of galbraith creek to a point lying due east of the summit of Mount dingley; Thence due east to the easterly boundary of the watershed of galbraith Creek;
Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 20° crossing North galbraith creek to the height of land separating the 2 forks at The headwaters of alpine creek; Thence westerly along the height of land separating the 2 forks at the Headwaters of alpine creek and continuing westerly along the southerly Boundary of the watershed of goat creek to the westerly boundary of goat Creek;
Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of goat Creek to the northerly boundary of block g of district lot 4590; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of block g of district lot 4590, to the northwest corner of district lot 4590, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 8 790 hectares.
Topley landing park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the northeast corner of lot 2175; Thence southwesterly along the boundary of lot 2175 and its prolongation To a point lying 80.48 metres distant from the southeast corner of lot 2175; Thence west 201.2 metres; Thence north 301.8 metres; Thence east approximately 150.9 metres to the high water mark on the Westerly shore of babine lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the high water mark to its Intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of Lot 2175;
Thence southerly along that northerly prolongation to the point of Commencement.
Secondly: commencing at a point on the north boundary of topley park Lying 70.42 metres due east of the northwest corner of topley park; Thence due north 140.84 metres; Thence due east 201.2 metres; Thence due south approximately 201.2 metres to a point lying 20.12 Metres from and perpendicular to the natural boundary of babine lake; Thence general southerly along a line parallel and perpendicular to the Natural boundary of babine lake to a point, being the point of Intersection of the line parallel and perpendicular to and the Northeasterly prolongation of the southeast boundary of topley park; Thence southwesterly 20.12 metres along that northeasterly prolongation To the most easterly corner of topley park; Thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of topley park to The northerly boundary of topley park; Thence due west along boundary northerly boundary of topley park to the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.
Tranquil creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Paradise lake lying due south 900 metres and due west approximately 550 Metres from rhine peak; Thence in a general northeasterly, easterly and southwesterly direction Along the westerly, northerly and easterly boundaries of the watershed Of paradise lake to a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Paradise lake lying due east 330 metres and due south approximately 850 Metres from rhine peak; Thence in a northwesterly direction in a straight line to the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 298.6 hectares.
Trembleur lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 22 tube 1866.
The whole park containing approximately 57 hectares.
Tribune bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of parcel c (dd 199735i) of the Fractional south 1/2 of section 10, hornby island, being a point on the Northwesterly shore natural boundary of tribune bay; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of parcel c to the easterly Boundary of st. john point road as shown on plan 1424rw; Thence northerly and easterly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of st. john point road, plan 1424 rw, to the easterly Boundary of fractional southeast 1/4 of section 10, hornby island; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of fractional southeast 1/4 Of section 10, hornby island to the most easterly, southeast corner of Section 10, being a point on the northerly shore natural boundary of Tribune bay; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 185° a distance Of 400 metres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 230° a distance Of 370 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of Parcel c (dd 199735i) of the fractional south 1/2 of section 10, hornby Island, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 95 hectares (72 hectares of upland and 23 hectares of foreshore).
[ Truman dagnus locheed park.
Description repealed 2013-3-2.] Ts'ilɂos park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district, Range 2, coast district and lillooet district and contained within the Following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of "chilco lake" indian reserve no.
1, range 2, coast district, being a point on the easterly shore natural Boundary of chilko lake; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of "chilco lake" indian Reserve no. 1 a distance of 650 metres; Thence due south to the intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of chilko Lake;
Thence southerly along a line parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of chilko lake to a point lying due South a distance of 5.95 kilometres and due east a distance of Approximately 2.7 kilometres from the southwest corner of "chilco lake" Indian reserve no. 1; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 73° a distance of Approximately 1.1 kilometres to the intersection with the 6 500 foot (1 981 metre) contour; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the 6 500 foot (1 981 Metre) contour to the intersection with the most easterly tributary of An unnamed creek flowing northeasterly into taseko river, being Approximately 5.5 kilometres due west and 2.8 kilometres due north from The northwest corner of district lot 7930, lillooet district; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 163° a distance of 1.4 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 200° a distance of 850 metres; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 169° a distance of 850 metres; Thence due south a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 217° a distance of 2.0 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 235° a distance of 2.0 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 205° a distance of 350 metres; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 170° a distance of 1.5 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 159° a distance of 2.3 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 172° a distance of 1.3 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 179° a distance of 4.0 Kilometres;
Thence southwesterly in a straight line to triangulation station p.m 68a 205 (g) located west of fishem lake; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 220° a distance of 3.1 Kilometres;
Thence due south to the intersection with the height of land between the 2 unnamed forks of the most southerly tributary of yohetta creek and Continuing southerly along the height of land to the summit of rcaf Peak;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 126° a distance of 4.0 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 165° to the intersection with The height of land between 2 unnamed creeks flowing into tchaikazan River from the icefields west and east of beehive peak; Thence southerly along the height of land to the summit of beehive peak; Thence southeasterly along the height of land to the intersection with The unnamed peak south of the icefield southeast of beehive peak; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 67°, a distance of 600 metres; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 104° to the intersection with The middle line of falls river; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of mount mcleod; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 104° to the confluence of the Middle lines of the northerly and southerly tributaries of an unnamed Creek flowing easterly into lord river; Thence southeasterly along the middle line to a point lying due south a Distance of 600 metres and due east a distance of approximately 4.4 Kilometres from the summit of mount mcleod; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 127° to the intersection with The 5 500 foot (1 676 metre) contour; Thence southerly and easterly along that contour to a point lying Parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the middle line Of an unnamed creek and most westerly tributary flowing northwesterly Into lord river; Thence southeasterly along a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from that middle line of an unnamed creek and Most westerly tributary to the most southeasterly limit of an unnamed Creek, and continuing southeasterly to the summit of an unnamed mountain Lying due east a distance of 9.7 kilometres and due north approximately 4.5 kilometres from the summit of mount perry; Thence southwesterly and westerly along the southeasterly and southerly Watershed boundaries of lord river and passing through the summits of Mount perry, mount wheatley, mount tait, mount dodds, mount henderson, Mount mills, mount porter to the summit of mount fulgora; Thence northerly and northwesterly along the southerly and southwesterly Watershed boundaries of chilko lake passing through the summit of mount Sawt and crossing npigwq, ramose and norrington glaciers to the summit Of an unnamed mountain west of norrington glacier and north of durham Glacier;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 3° a distance of 4.7 Kilometres;
Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of the joker; Thence southwesterly along the height of land through the summits of Coronel and wednesday mountains to the summit of scharnhorst mountain; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 277° a distance of 1.1 Kilometres;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 339° a distance of 1.0 Kilometre;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 15° to the intersection with The height of land between goddard glacier and otranto glacier; Thence northeasterly along the height of land to the summit of mount Marston;
Thence northeasterly along the height of land between boulanger creek And farrow creek to the summit of an unnamed mountain located Approximately 1.5 kilometres south of good hope mountain; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly watershed Boundaries of franklyn arm of chilko lake and passing through the Summits of mount durham and majestic, regal and consort peaks, Continuing northerly to the summit of an unnamed mountain lying due west A distance of one kilometre and due north a distance of approximately 750 metres from the summit of mount dartmouth; Thence northerly along the westerly watershed boundary of chilko lake And passing through the summits of mounts derick, mckinney, macphail and Whitton and continuing to a point lying due west a distance of 12.1 Kilometres and due south a distance of approximately 900 metres from the Southwest corner of "chilco lake" indian reserve no. 1, range 2, coast District;
Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 11° a distance of Approximately 6.9 kilometres crossing stikelan pass to the summit of an Unnamed mountain lying due north a distance of 3.8 kilometres and due West a distance of approximately 9.25 kilometres from the northwest Corner of district lot 1416, range 2, coast district, being "chilco Lake" indian reserve 1a; Thence northerly along the westerly watershed boundary of chilko lake, Crossing cheshi pass and passing through the summit of tullin mountain To a point lying due south a distance of 300 metres and due west a Distance of approximately 2.4 kilometres from the southwest corner of District lot 599, range 2, coast district; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 56° to the intersection with The 4 500 foot (1 372 metre) contour; Thence due east a distance of 500 metres; Thence due south a distance of approximately 1.5 kilometres to the right Bank natural boundary of chilko river; Thence in a straight line to the most northerly point of an unnamed Peninsula situated at the most northerly point of chilko lake lying on The natural boundary of chilko lake; Thence southeasterly along the northerly shore natural boundary of Chilko lake, on the unnamed peninsula, to the most easterly point of the Unnamed peninsula; Thence due east to the intersection with the 4 000 foot (1 219 metre) Contour;
Thence northeasterly along that contour to the intersection with the Middle line of the most easterly tributary of an unnamed creek flowing Northwesterly into chilko river; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the 5040' horizontal control Point as shown on nts map 92 n/9, edition 2, being a point on the Easterly watershed boundary of chilko lake; Thence southwesterly along the watershed boundary of chilko lake to a Point lying due north a distance of 300 metres and due west a distance Of approximately 400 metres from the northwest corner of district lot 1660, range 2, coast district; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the most southerly southwest Corner of district lot 1660; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 145° a distance of Approximately 2.7 kilometres to a point on the easterly watershed Boundary of chilko lake; Thence southerly and southeasterly along the easterly watershed boundary Of chilko lake to a point lying due north a distance of 300 metres and Due west a distance of approximately 1.9 kilometres from the summit of Mount nemaia; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 210° a distance of Approximately 1.3 kilometres to the intersection with the confluence of The middle lines of an unnamed creek and the most easterly tributary of The unnamed creek flowing southwesterly into chilko lake; Thence southwesterly along the middle line of unnamed creek to the Intersection with the northerly boundary of district lot 1416, being "chilco lake" indian reserve no. 1a; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1416 to the Northwest corner of district lot 1416 and being a point on the easterly Shore natural boundary of chilko lake; Thence southeasterly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1416, Being "chilco lake" indian reserve no. 1a and continuing southeasterly Along the westerly boundary of "chilco lake" indian reserve no. 1a to The southwest corner of "chilco lake" indian reserve no. 1a, being the Point of commencement; Except district lot 1811, range 2, coast district.
The whole park containing approximately 233 240 hectares.
Tsútswecw park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the intersection of the northerly boundary of the "quaaout" indian reserve no. 1 and the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 Of the northwest 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of section 28, township 22, Range 12, w6m; Thence northerly along that easterly boundary to the northerly boundary Of the southeast 1/4 of section 28; Thence due west 402.34 metres; Thence due north approximately 804.67 metres to the southerly boundary Of the southwest 1/4 of section 33; Thence westerly along the southerly boundary of the southwest 1/4 of Section 33 to a point lying due south of the southeast corner of block a Of section 33; Thence due north to the southeast corner of block a of section 33; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of block a to the northwest corner of block a; Thence due west to the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 2 of Section 32;
Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 2 of Section 32;
Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 2, and Continuing northerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 7 To the southerly boundary of block b of section 32; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of block b to the southeast Corner of block b; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the northeasterly Boundary of block b to the most northerly corner of block b, being a Point on the easterly boundary of block a of section 32; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of block a to the northwest corner of block a; Thence due west to the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 11 of Section 32;
Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 11 to The northeast corner of the south 1/2 of legal subdivision 11; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of legal Subdivision 11, and continuing westerly along the northerly boundaries Of the south 1/2 of legal subdivision 12 of section 32 and the southeast 1/4 of legal subdivision 9 of section 31 to the northwest corner of the Southeast 1/4;
Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the northwest 1/4 of the Legal subdivision 9, and continuing northerly along the easterly Boundary of the west 1/2 of legal subdivision 16 to the northerly Boundary of section 31; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of section 31 to a point Lying due south of the most southerly corner of block b of lot 1845; Thence due north to the most southerly corner of block b of lot 1845; Thence in a general northeasterly and northwesterly direction along the Southeasterly and northeasterly boundaries of block b, and continuing Northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of block a of lot 1845 to The most northerly corner of block a; Thence in a northerly direction in a straight line to the most easterly Corner of lot 1884; Thence northwesterly along the northeasterly boundary of lot 1884 to the Most easterly corner of lot 1312; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of lot 1312 to the northwest corner of lot 1312; Thence due west 201.17 metres; Thence due north to the southerly boundary of lot 5911; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of lot 5911 and continuing northerly along the easterly Boundaries of lots 5885 and 6010 to the northeast corner of lot 6010; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of lot 6010 to the Northwest corner of lot 6010; Thence due west to the westerly boundary of legal subdivision 16, Section 6, township 23, range 12, w6m; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of legal subdivision 16 and Continuing northerly along the westerly boundary of legal subdivision 1 Of section 7 to the southerly boundary of "toops" indian reserve no. 3; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of "toops" indian reserve No. 3 to the right bank natural boundary of adams river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Adams river and the westerly shore natural boundary of adams lake to the Southerly limit of the right of way as shown on plan c9610; Thence easterly along the southerly limit of the right of way as shown On plan c9610 to the easterly shore natural boundary of adams lake, Being a point on the westerly boundary of "hustalen" indian reserve no.
1; Thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along the westerly And southerly boundaries of the "hustalen" indian reserve no. 1 to the Easterly boundary of legal subdivision 4 of section 8, township 23, Range 12, w6m; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 4 and Continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of legal subdivision 13 Of section 5 to the southwest corner of the north 1/2 of legal Subdivision 14;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the north 1/2 of legal Subdivision 14 to the southeast corner of legal subdivision 14; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the legal subdivision 14 And continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of legal Subdivision 11 to the southeast corner of legal subdivision 11; Thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly Boundaries of legal subdivision 7 to the southeast corner of legal Subdivision 7;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of legal subdivision 1 and Continuing easterly along the northerly boundary of legal subdivision 4 Of section 4 to the northeast corner of section 4; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary the legal subdivision 4 to The southwest corner of the north 1/2 of legal subdivision 3; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of the north 1/2 of the Legal subdivision 3 to the southeast corner of legal subdivision 3; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the legal subdivision 3 To the northerly boundary of section 32, township 22, range 12, w6m; Thence easterly along the northerly boundaries of sections 32 and 33 to The northeast corner of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of section 33; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of section 33 to the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 Of section 33; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of section 33 to the northeast corner of legal subdivision 7; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the legal subdivision 7 And continuing southerly along the easterly boundary of legal Subdivision 2 to the southeast corner of legal subdivision 2; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of legal subdivision 1 to The southeast corner of legal subdivision 1; Thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of legal subdivisions 13 And 12 of section 27 to the northwest corner of the south 1/2 of the Legal subdivision 12; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of legal Subdivision 12 and continuing easterly along the northerly boundaries of The south 1/2 of legal subdivisions 11 and 10 to the point of Intersection with southerly boundary of adams plateau - corning forest Road as shown on ministry of forests' drawing 7-81-k; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the southerly boundary To the point of intersection with the westerly boundary of legal Subdivision 9 of section 27, township 22, range 12, w6m; Thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly Boundaries of the legal subdivision 9 to the northwest corner of the Fractional south 1/2 of section 26; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of the fractional south 1/2 Of section 26 to the northeast corner of section 26; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the fractional south 1/2 Of section 26 to the southeast corner of section 26; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of fractional section 24 to The westerly shore natural boundary of shuswap lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Shuswap lake to the westerly boundary of fractional section 24; Thence southerly in a straight line to the most easterly point of "quaaout" indian reserve no. 1; Thence in a general westerly direction along the northerly boundary of The "quaaout" indian reserve no. 1 to the intersection of the easterly Boundary of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of Section 28, township 22, range 12, w6m, being the point of commencement; Except (1) holding road, no. 451; (2) squilax-anglemont road, no. 446; (3) the road shown on plan kap42083 or on the official plan deposited in The crown land registry as plan 30 tube 1465; (4) the road shown on Plan epc #56 on file in the crown land registry; and (5) the land shown On plans kap83136, kap83135 and kap48895.
Secondly: the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1778, Containing approximately 88 hectares.
The whole park containing approximately 1 073 hectares.
Tudyah lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most southerly corner of block a of district lot 11627, being a point on the westerly boundary of john hart highway, as Shown on plan h-213, on deposit in the land title office in prince George;
Thence in a southerly direction along the westerly boundary of john hart Highway, plan h-213 and continuing in a southerly direction along the Westerly boundary of john hart peace river highway, plan 28193, to a Point lying 392 metres due south and approximately 100 metres due east Of the southwest corner of district lot 11627; Thence due west to the right bank natural boundary of pack river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of pack river to, and in a general southerly, westerly, Southerly, easterly and northerly direction along the natural boundary Of a back channel of pack river, to the southerly shore natural boundary Of tudyah lake; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the southerly shore Natural boundary of tudyah lake to the most easterly northeast corner of District lot 11609, being a point; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 11609 to The westerly boundary of john hart peace river highway, plan 28193; Thence in a southwesterly direction along the westerly boundary of john Hart peace river highway, plan 28193 and continuing in a southwesterly Direction along the westerly boundary of john hart highway, plan h-213 To the most easterly corner of block a of district lot 11627, being a Point on the westerly boundary of john hart highway; Thence northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the Northeasterly, northwesterly and southwesterly boundaries of block a of District lot 11627, to the most southerly corner of district lot 11627, Being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 56 hectares.
Tuya mountains park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1868.
The whole park containing approximately 18 001 hectares.
Tweedsmuir park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district, Range 3, coast district and range 4, coast district and within utm zone 9 and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 1432, range 4, coast district; Thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of district lots 1432 and 1431 to the southwest corner of district lot 1431, being a point on the Northerly shore natural boundary of tetachuck lake; Thence southerly in a straight line to the southwest corner of district Lot 1433, being a point on the southerly shore natural boundary of Tetachuck lake; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 1433 to the southwest corner of district lot 1434; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 1434 to the southwest corner of district lot 1435; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1435 to the Westerly boundary of district lot 1437; Thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of district lots 1437 and 1438 to the southwest corner of district lot 1438; Thence southerly to utm north 5899473 metres east 699563 metres; Thence easterly to the southwest corner of district lot 1507, range 4, Coast district; Thence southerly to the northwest corner of entiako park at utm north 588632 metres; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of entiako park to the Southwest corner at utm north 5877866 metres east 716506 metres; Thence southerly to utm north 5860603 metres east 717231 metres; Thence to utm north 5860746 metres east 720265 metres; Thence to utm north 5855369 metres east 720531 metres; Thence to utm north 5851100 metres east 729909 metres; Thence to utm n 5848694 metres east 730026 metres; Thence to utm north 5848537 metres east 726804 metres; Thence to utm north 5838166 metres east 727309 metres; Thence to utm north 5829407 metres east 721755 metres; Thence southerly to the summit of hotnarko mountain, being a point on The northerly boundary of the watershed of precipice creek at Approximately utm north 5819480 metres east 722205 metres; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of Precipice creek to the westerly boundary of the watershed of precipice Creek;
Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of The watershed of precipice creek and continuing in a general southerly Direction along the westerly boundary of the watershed of an unnamed Creek produced to the intersection of the middle line of hotnarko river With the middle line of telegraph creek, with an unnamed creek being Tributary to, and flowing southerly into hotnarko river, at a point Approximately 250 metres to the northeast of the confluence of telegraph Creek and hotnarko river; Thence southerly in a straight line to the intersection of the left bank Natural boundary of hotnarko river with the northerly prolongation of The westerly boundary of the watershed of telegraph creek; Thence southerly to and continuing in a general southerly direction Along the westerly boundary of the watershed of telegraph creek to the Northerly boundary of the watershed of atnarko river; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of atnarko River to the summit of trumpeter mountain, being a point, at Approximately utm north 5794181 metres east 728947 metres; Thence southerly in a straight line to the summit of mount ada, being a Point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of rainbow lake, at Approximately utm north 5780678 metres east 729419 metres; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watersheds of rainbow lake, elbow lake and south atnarko river, to The westerly boundary of the watershed of jobin creek; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the watershed of jobin Creek to utm north 5754566 metres; Thence westerly to utm north 5752541 metres east 313368 metres; Thence westerly to the northeast corner of district lot 165 and Continuing westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 165; Thence westerly in a straight line to the summit of monarch mountain; Thence westerly to utm north 5754306 metres east 711262 metres; Thence north to the left bank natural boundary of the talchako river at Utm north 5770916 metres; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the left bank natural Boundaries of talchako and bella coola rivers to a point lying due south Of the intersection of the right bank natural boundary of burnt bridge Creek with the right bank natural boundary of bella coola river; Thence due north to the intersection of the right bank natural boundary Of burnt bridge creek; Thence in a northerly along the right bank natural boundary of burnt Bridge creek to its intersection with the right bank natural boundary of An unnamed creek flowing southeasterly into burnt bridge creek at Approximately utm north 5817097 metres; Thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the right bank Natural boundary of the unnamed creek to the southerly shore natural Boundary of the largest of the unnamed lakes, at the headwaters of the Unnamed creek; Thence westerly and northerly along the southerly and westerly natural Boundaries of the unnamed lake, to the lake's most northerly point, at Approximately utm north 5823926 metres utm east 693085 metres; Thence due north to the summit of the "cascade mountains" as defined in The
Interpretation act ; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the summit of the "cascade mountains" to utm north 5847024 metres shown on plan 5 Tube 1897 deposited in the crown land registry; Thence to utm east 679355 metres on the left bank natural boundary of The dean river; Thence to utm east 679355 metres on the southerly boundary of the Watershed of the streams flowing into sigutlat lake, being the summit of The "cascade mountains"; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the summit of the "cascade mountains" to utm north 5909029 metres shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1863; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately 60° to triangulation station identified as 6217° on national topographic System (n.t.s.) map 93e/6, edition 2; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to triangulation station 6317° As shown on n.t.s. map 93e/6, edition 2; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the intersection of the right Bank natural boundary of chikamin creek with the southerly shore natural Boundary of whitesail lake; Thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly shore natural Boundaries of whitesail lake, whitesail reach and ootsa lake to a point On the natural boundary of ootsa lake, at utm east 692228 metres; Thence southerly to the northwest corner of district lot 1432, being the Point of commencement; Except those parts of chilcotin-bella coola highway, number 20, as shown Outlined in red on ministry of transportation and highways' drawings 47-a20-119, sheets 1 to 17.
Secondly: all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1863; except mineral claim "xk1412" 241413.
Thirdly: the crown land situated in range 3, coast district described as The northwest 1/4 of section 9, township 9 and lot a, section 33, Township 9, plan vip62618, on file with the victoria land title office; Except those parts of highway number 20 as shown outlined in red on Ministry of transportation and highways' drawings 47-a20-119 sheets 12 To 17.
Fourthly: the most westerly 402.336 metres (20 chains) of district lot 770, range 3, coast district; except that part in plan vip54691.
The whole park containing approximately 989 714 hectares.
Tyhee lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in townships 4 and 5, range 5 coast district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Firstly: block "a" of the fractional northeast 1/4 of section 35.
The fractional northeast 1/4 of section 35, except the southwest 1/4 of The fractional northeast corner of section 35 and the south 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of block "a".
Secondly: commencing at the intersection of the south boundary of the Fractional northeast 1/4 of section 35, and the natural boundary of Tyhee lake; Thence due east a distance of 61 metres; Thence northerly along a line parallel and 61 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of tyhee lake to a point lying due East of the intersection of the north boundary of the northeast 1/4, Section 35 and the natural boundary of tyhee lake; Thence due west to the natural boundary of tyhee lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of tyhee lake to the point Of commencement.
Thirdly: lot 6, section 2, township 4, range 5 coast district, plan 10278; except that part subdivided by plan epp242.
The whole park containing approximately 39 hectares.
Union passage marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1975.
The whole park containing approximately 1 444 hectares (1 014 hectares of upland and 430 hectares of foreshore).
Upper adams river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the kamloops division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1987; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests and range road adams west, fsr 7458-01; (2) a 30 metre right Of way centred on ministry of forests and range road adams east, fsr 7458-12; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road finn tum, fsr 0565-03; (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests and range road tumtum harbour, fsr 5072-07; and (5) A 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range road Oliver creek, fsr 5072-10.
The whole park containing approximately 5 868 hectares.
Upper lillooet park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at iron post 21, being a line post on the westerly boundary Of district lot 2340 as shown on plan 4 tube 1087 on file with the Surveyor general of british columbia; Thence on a bearing of 87° crossing lillooet river a distance of 1.70 Kilometres;
Thence on a bearing of 359° a distance of 3.90 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 307° a distance of 970 metres; Thence westerly on an approximate bearing of 275° a distance of Approximately 4.86 kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain Separating unnamed creeks flowing southerly into lillooet river; Thence on a bearing of 297° a distance of 3.10 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 274° a distance of 3.50 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 233° a distance of 3.10 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 193° a distance of 2.75 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 149° a distance of approximately 1.76 kilometres To the height of land separating 2 unnamed creeks flowing northeasterly Into lillooet river; Thence due south a distance of approximately 8.78 kilometres to a point Lying 600 metres due south and approximately 4.0 kilometres due east of The summit of dolphin peak; Thence on a bearing of 119° a distance of approximately 5.3 kilometres To the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek flowing Southeasterly into meager creek and located east of manatee glacier; Thence southeasterly along the right bank natural boundary of the Unnamed creek to a point lying 240 metres due south and approximately 740 metres due west of the intersection between the right bank natural Boundary of the unnamed creek and the left bank natural boundary of Meager creek; Thence on a bearing of 13°, a distance of 3.48 kilometres; Thence on an approximate bearing of 351° a distance of approximately 3.72 kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain on the northerly Boundary of the watershed of meager creek and situated west of mount Job;
Thence on a bearing of 41° a distance of approximately 5.91 kilometres To the height of land separating those creeks flowing northwesterly into Lillooet river, from those flowing northeasterly into lillooet river and Situated northwest of plinth peak; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to iron post 21, being a line Post on the westerly boundary of district lot 2340, and the point of Commencement;
Except (1) mineral claim "gpc #1" 332441; and (2) mineral claim "gpc #8" 332448.
The whole park containing approximately 19 996 hectares.
Upper seymour river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1854; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests' seymour west road 7271-03; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of forests' permit road ro7629 section 18-7; and (3) Forest licence a 18669, cp 705 block 2 and a 30 metre right of way for The new road necessary to access cp 705 block 2 and resource lands Beyond the park.
The whole park containing approximately 10 672 hectares.
Valhalla park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2024.
The whole park containing approximately 50 159 hectares.
Vargas island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1846; except (1) district lots 1459, 1433 and parcel 'a' of district lot 1457; (2) "ahous" indian reserve no. 16; and (3) "vargas island" indian reserve No. 31.
The whole park containing approximately 5 805 hectares (1 543 hectares of upland and 4 262 hectares of Foreshore).
Vaseux lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: that part of sublot 15 of district lot 2710 lying to the west Of plan a413 except the south 1 124.5 metres of sublot 15 of district Lot 2710 and plan a868.
Lot 18 of sublot 15 of district lot 2710, plan 11377 except plan a868.
Secondly: the waters of vaseux lake, more particularly described as Commencing at the point of intersection of the westerly boundary of Sublot 15 of lot 2710 with the northerly shore natural boundary of Vaseux lake; Thence in an easterly and southerly direction along the natural boundary Of vaseux lake to the point of intersection with the southerly boundary Of lot 18 of lot 2710, plan 11377; Thence southwesterly along the southwesterly prolongation of the Southerly boundary of lot 18 of lot 2710, plan 11377 100 metres more or Less;
Thence in a northerly and westerly direction, parallel to and 100 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of vaseux lake to a Point lying due south of the point of commencement; Thence due north 100 metres more or less to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 11.5 hectares (5.5 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Victor lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Fractional legal subdivision 1, section 18, township 23, range 3, w6m, Except the trans canada highway right of way and plan 1879 (canadian Pacific railway right of way).
The whole park containing approximately 14.7 hectares.
Wakes cove park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1999.
The whole park containing approximately 205 hectares (132 hectares of upland and 73 hectares of foreshore).
Wallace island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1896; except (1) lot 1, plan 18704; and (2) lot a, wallace island, plan 32656.
The whole park containing approximately 89 hectares (85 hectares of upland and 4 hectares of foreshore).
Walloper lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: commencing at the most westerly northwest corner of district Lot 1501;
Thence due south approximately 201 metres to the point of intersection With the northerly shore natural boundary of walloper lake; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Walloper lake to the most westerly southwest corner of district lot 1501; Thence northwesterly along the west boundary of district lot 1501 to the Point of commencement.
Secondly: commencing at a point on the southerly shore natural boundary Of walloper lake lying due south of the most westerly northwest corner Of district lot 1501; Thence due south 181 metres; Thence south 85° east a distance of approximately 986 metres to the Southerly shore natural boundary of walloper lake; Thence in a general westerly direction along the natural boundary of Walloper lake to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: commencing at the most southerly southwest corner of district Lot 1808;
Thence south 12° east a distance of 81 metres; Thence south 27° west a distance of 555 metres; Thence north 85° west a distance of approximately 110 metres to the Southerly shore natural boundary of walloper lake; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of walloper lake to the point of intersection with the westerly boundary Of district lot 1808; Thence in a general southerly direction along the westerly boundary of District lot 1808 to the point of commencement.
Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest Corner of district lot 1226 and the northerly shore natural boundary of Walloper lake; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1226 a Distance of 95.15 metres; Thence due west to a point of intersection with the southerly boundary Of meadow creek road; Thence in a general westerly direction along the southerly boundaries of Meadow creek road and then the coquihalla highway to a point lying due North of the northeast corner of district lot 179; Thence due south to the northeast corner of district lot 179; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 179 to the Point of intersection with the northerly shore natural boundary of Walloper lake; Thence in a general easterly direction along the natural boundary of Walloper lake to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 55 hectares.
Walsh cove park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: district lots 5371 and 5372.
Secondly: the water of waddington channel described as commencing at the Point of intersection of the northeast corner of district lot 5371 and The natural boundary of waddington channel; Thence south 15° west to a point, lying due east of the southeast of Block a of district lot 5372; Thence due west to the natural boundary of waddington channel; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Waddington channel to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 85 hectares (39 hectares of upland and 46 hectares of foreshore).
Wapiti lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1846.
The whole park containing approximately 16 809 hectares.
Wardner park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Lot 1 of lot 1901, plan 9265, subject to existing rights under the Water act .
The whole park containing approximately 4 hectares.
Wasa lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: block c, district lot 264, plan 2331.
Block a, district lot 264, plan 2064.
Lot 1, block b, district lot 264, plan 2771.
Lot 25, district lot 264, plan 4843, except plan 18608.
Lot 9, district lot 264, plan 4843; except a 20 metre right of way Centred on wasa lake drive; and (2) wolf creek road no. 41, a 20.12 Metre right of way shown on plan 3 tube ry172.
Secondly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southeast Corner of lot 2, block b, district lot 264, plan 2771 and the northerly Shore natural boundary of wasa lake; Thence southeasterly along the prolongation of the easterly boundary of Lot 2 to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the Easterly shore natural boundary of wasa lake; Thence in a general southerly and easterly direction along a line drawn Parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the northerly Shore natural boundary of wasa lake to a point being utm n 5515456 Metres, utm zone 11; Thence northeasterly to the point of intersection of the easterly shore Natural boundary of wasa lake and the east boundary of block a, district Lot 264, plan 2064; Thence in a westerly and northerly direction along the easterly shore Natural boundary of wasa lake to the point of commencement.
Thirdly: block 1, district lot 3000, plan 2344, except old Warner-columbia highway no. 5, as shown on road survey 1432.
Parcel 'a' (see 109592i), block 26, district lot 3000, plan 2344.
Fourthly: commencing at the point of intersection of the southwest Corner of lot 2, district lot 3000, plan 2673 and the easterly shore Natural boundary of wasa lake; Thence west along the prolongation of the southerly boundary of lot 2 to A point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore Natural boundary of wasa lake; Thence in a southerly direction along a line drawn parallel to and 100 Metres perpendicularly distant from the easterly shore natural boundary Of wasa lake to a point lying due west of the southerly boundary of Block 1, district lot 3000, plan 2344; Thence east to the point of intersection of the southerly boundary of Block 1, district lot 3000, plan 2344 and the easterly shore natural Boundary of wasa lake; Thence in a northerly direction along the easterly shore natural Boundary of wasa lake to the point of commencement.
Fifthly: commencing at a point on the easterly boundary of block 26, District lot 3000, 506.06 metres north of the southeast corner of block 26; Thence northerly 201.22 metres along the easterly boundary of block 26; Thence due east 201.22 metres; Thence due south 201.22 metres; Thence west in a straight line approximately 201.22 metres to the point Of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares (135 hectares of upland and 19 hectares of foreshore).
Weewanie hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1886.
The whole park containing approximately 35 hectares (23 hectares of upland and 12 hectares of foreshore).
West arm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1997; except (1) the canadian pacific railway right of way and the burlington & Northern railway right of way along the west arm of kootenay lake (as Shown on various plans); (2) mineral claim 234932; (3) mineral claim 234933; (4) mineral claim 234934; (5) mineral claim 234935; (6) Mineral claim 234936; and (7) the 10 metres on either side of the Constructed centreline of svoboda road.
The whole park containing approximately 26 197 hectares.
West lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the northwest 1/4 of district lot 1887; except west lake-fraser River road 330, a section 42 Transportation act Highway.
The northeast 1/4 of district lot 1887; except west lake-fraser river Road.
The southeast 1/4 of district lot 1887; except plan 18350 and the old And new rights of way of the west lake-fraser river road 330 as shown on Ministry of transportation's road survey plan 7511.
Lot 1 of district lot 1887, plan 18350.
That part of the southeast 1/4 of district lot 1887 described as the old West lake-fraser road 330 shown outlined in green on ministry of Transportation's road survey plan 7511 and filed with the parks Division, victoria.
The southwest 1/4 of district lot 1887.
Secondly: commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 4292 lying On the natural boundary of nadsilnich lake; Thence east in a straight line to the northwest corner of district lot 4297 lying on the natural boundary of nadsilnich lake; Thence in a general northerly, westerly and southwesterly direction Along the natural boundary of nadsilnich lake to the point of Commencement.
Thirdly: that part of the bed of beaverly creek contained within District lot 1887.
The whole park containing approximately 256 hectares.
West shawnigan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in malahat district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1919; except (1) the crown land that is the subject of the west shawnigan lake road Right of way plan rs 1700-i; and (2) the canadian national railway right Of way plan 1201 o.s.
The whole park containing approximately 9.7 hectares.
West twin park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1847.
The whole park containing approximately 22 317 hectares.
Weymer creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the summit of an unnamed peak lying Approximately due east 3.25 kilometres of the southeast corner of District lot 21; Thence due west a distance of 100 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of 337 metres; Thence westerly on a bearing of 271° a distance of approximately 350 Metres to a point, being the northerly boundary of an unnamed road (g-7h); Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 312° a distance of approximately 290 metres to a point on an unnamed road (g-7h) on the northerly Boundary of an unnamed road; Thence northerly along the northerly boundary of an unnamed road (g-7h) To a point lying northwesterly on a bearing of 342° a distance of Approximately 545 metres from the point described in the previous Sentence;
Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 307° a distance of approximately 325 metres to a point, being the northerly boundary of an unnamed road; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 331° a distance of approximately 740 metres to a point, being the natural boundary at the confluence of 2 Tributaries of an unnamed creek flowing northwesterly into tahsis inlet, On the most westerly left bank of tahsis inlet; Thence northerly along that left bank a distance of 330 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 72° a distance of 620 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 8° a distance of 325 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 94° a distance of approximately 430 Metres to a point, being the height of land forming the westerly Boundary of the watershed of perry river; Thence in a general southeasterly, southerly and southwesterly direction Along the westerly boundary of the watershed of perry river to the point Of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 316 hectares.
Whaleboat island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nanaimo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1899.
The whole park containing approximately 11 hectares (4 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Whiskers point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1839.
The whole park containing approximately 116 hectares.
White river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1902.
The whole park containing approximately 72 hectares.
Whiteswan lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the right bank of the lussier River and the east boundary of lot 4596; Thence due north to the 1 340 metre contour; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the 1 340 metre Contour to the point of intersection with the left bank of mutton creek; Thence along the left bank of mutton creek in a general southerly Direction to the 1 280 metre contour; Thence in a general easterly then general northeasterly direction along The 1 280 metre contour to a point lying 1 200 metres due north of the Northern boundary of lot 10325; Thence due east approximately 1 750 metres to the point of intersection With the left bank of an unnamed creek and the 1 220 metre contour; Thence in a general southerly, then general easterly direction along the 1 220 metre contour to a point lying 600 metres east and 150 metres North of the point of intersection of the east side of the white river Forest road right of way and the right bank of white river; Thence due south to the 1 220 metre contour; Thence in a general westerly, then general southerly direction along the 1 220 metre contour to the point of intersection with the left bank of Inlet creek; Thence south 30° west for a distance of approximately 400 metres to the 1 280 metre contour; Thence in a general westerly direction along the 1 280 metre contour to A point lying 250 metres south and 150 metres east of the intersection Of the left bank of mutton creek and the right bank of lussier river; Thence due west to the 1 280 metre contour; Thence in a general northerly then general westerly direction along the 1 280 metre contour to its point of intersection with the east boundary Of lot 4596; Thence north along the east boundary of lot 4596 to the point of Commencement;
Except (1) the land that is the subject of the rights of way of the White river forest road; (2) the land that is the subject of the White-moscow forest road; (3) the land that is the subject of the White-coyote forest road and the white-rock forest road, as shown in red On forest service engineering drawing no. 13-316; and (4) the land that Is the subject of and white-inlet forest road, as shown in red on forest Service engineering drawing no. 3-301.
The whole park containing approximately 1 994 hectares.
Windermere lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Sublot 16 of district lot 4596, plan x32; Block a, plan dd 3268-i, district lot 5118; District lot 107 except plans 849 and 1203; Lots 1 to 9 of district lot 107, plan 849; Lot 1 of district lot 346, plan 5332.
The whole park containing approximately 220 hectares.
Wire cache park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 1789; except forest service road, project 564-02.
The whole park containing approximately 57 hectares.
Wistaria park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: block a of district lot 916.
Secondly: the foreshore described as commencing at the point of Intersection of the easterly boundary of district lot 916 and the Natural boundary of ootsa lake, being the 859.5 metre contour; Thence south along the easterly boundary of district lot 916 a distance Of approximately 40 metres; Thence along a line parallel and perpendicularly distance 40 metres from The natural boundary of ootsa lake in a general northwesterly direction To the point of intersection with the boundary of district lot 916; Thence north along the westerly boundary of district lot 916 a distance Of approximately 40 metres to the natural boundary of ootsa lake; Thence along the natural boundary of ootsa lake in a general Southeasterly direction to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 40 hectares (30 hectares upland and 10 hectares of foreshore).
Woss lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 1145 lying on the Westerly shore natural boundary of woss lake; Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Woss lake a distance of 800 metres; Thence on a bearing of 173° a distance of approximately 2.2 kilometres To a point of intersection of the easterly shore natural boundary of Woss lake with the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of an unnamed creek a distance of 600 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 120° to a point of intersection With the height of land forming the easterly boundary of the watershed Of woss lake; Thence in a general southerly, westerly and northerly direction along The easterly, southerly and westerly boundaries of the watershed of woss Lake to a point being the point of intersection of the easterly boundary Of the watershed of woss lake with the southerly boundary of the Watershed of an unnamed creek, which is tributary to woss lake and whose Confluences in district lot 1144; Thence in a general easterly and northerly direction along the southerly And easterly boundaries of the watershed of an unnamed creek to a point Lying due west of the southwest corner of district lot 1145; Thence due east to the southwest corner of district lot 1145; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1145 to the Southeast corner of district lot 1145, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 6 634.2 hectares.
Yahk park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1893.
The whole park containing approximately 11 hectares (9 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Yard creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1877.
The whole park containing approximately 175 hectares (162 hectares of upland and 13 hectares of foreshore).
Schedule d Ancient forest/chun t'oh whudujut park Anhluut'ukwsim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a [a.k.a. nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed Park]
Anstey hunakwa park Arrowstone park Artlish caves park Atna river park Bearhole lake park Beatton park Beaver creek park Beaver valley park Becher's prairie park Bedard aspen park Big basin park Big creek park Bligh island marine park Blue earth lake park Bonaparte park Boothman's oxbow park Bowron lake park Bridge river delta park Browne lake park Burgoyne bay park Burnie-shea park Cariboo mountains park Cariboo river park Castle rock hoodoos park Chasm park Claud elliott lake park Copper johnny park Coquihalla river park Cornwall hills park Cowichan river park Crater lake park Dahl lake park Dall river old growth park Dante's inferno park Denetiah park Denison-bonneau park Denman island park Donnely lake park Dragon mountain park Eagle river park E. c. manning park Edge hills park Elephant hill park Eleven sisters park Elk falls park Enderby cliffs park Epper passage park Finger-tatuk park Flat lake park Francis point park Francois lake park Fraser river breaks park Fraser river park Fred antoine park French bar creek park Gilpin grasslands park Gladstone park God's pocket marine park Gold muchalat park Gowlland tod park Graham-laurier park Granby park Graystokes park Greenstone mountain park Gwyneth lake park Harbour-dudgeon lakes park Harry lake aspen park Height of the rockies park Hitchie creek park Hole-in-the-wall park Horne lake caves park Horneline creek park Itcha ilgachuz park Junction sheep range park Kalamalka lake park Kianuko park Kingfisher creek park Kiskatinaw river park Klin-se-za park Kluskoil lake park Kotcho lake village site park Lac le jeune park Liard river corridor park Long creek park Malaspina park Maquinna marine park Mara meadows park Marble canyon park Marble range park Marble river park Mcconnell lake park Mehatl creek park Milligan hills park Monashee park Monte creek park Moose valley park Morice lake park Mount geoffrey escarpment park Mount griffin park Mount robson park Mount savona park Myra-bellevue park Nadina mountain park Nenikë​kh/nanika-kidprice park Nation lakes park Nazko lake park North thompson oxbows jensen island park Northern rocky mountains park Nunsti park Okanagan mountain park Old man lake park Omineca park Oregana creek park Oregon jack park Painted bluffs park Patterson lake park Paul lake park Peace river corridor park Pennask creek park Pillar park Pine le moray park Pinecone burke park Pink mountain park Pritchard park Prophet river hot springs park Pukeashun park Punti island park Purcell wilderness conservancy park Quesnel lake park Rainbow alley park Rainbow/q'iwentem park Read island park Redbrush park Redfern-keily park Roche lake park Rock bay marine park Say nuth khaw yum park [a.k.a. indian arm park] Scatter river old growth park Schoolhouse lake park Shuswap river islands park Sikanni chief canyon park Sikanni old growth park Skaha bluffs park Skookumchuck rapids park Smith river falls – fort halkett park South chilcotin mountains park Stawamus chief park Stein valley nlaka'pamux heritage park Stuart river park Sulphur passage park S
Xˇ
W
Ə
Xˇ
W
Nitk
W
Park
Tantalus park Tatshenshini-alsek park Taweel park Tetrahedron park Titetown park Toad river hot springs park Todagin south slope park Trepanier park Tsintsunko lakes park Tunkwa park Uncha mountain red hills park Upper violet creek park Walhachin oxbows park Wap creek park Wells gray park White lake park White pelican park White ridge park Wrinkly face park Yalakom park Ancient forest/chun t'oh whudujut park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 11 190 hectares.
Anhluut'ukwsim la X
Mihl angwinga'asanskwhl nisg̱a'a [a.k.a. nisg̱a'a memorial lava bed park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated within the province of British columbia and contained within the following described Boundaries, the utm coordinates herein being in utm zone 9 and referred To the nad83(csrs) datum:
Commencing at post #54 as shown on plan nr51 lisims land registry, plan 12tu1896 crown land registry, being the southeast corner of district lot 1093, cassiar district; Thence following the survey boundary of plan nr51 lisims land registry, Plan 12tu1896 crown land registry, to post #53 as shown on plan nr72 Lisims land registry, plan 11tu1997 crown land registry; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr72 lisims land Registry, plan 11tu1997 crown land registry, through post #52wt to Corner #52 on the left natural boundary of nass river; Thence northeasterly along the left natural boundary of nass river to The southerly boundary of district lot 1094, cassiar district; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 1094 to the southerly boundary of district Lot 7283, cassiar district; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 7283 to the left natural boundary of the Channel of nass river lying to the south and east of district lot 7282, Cassiar district; Thence northeasterly along the left natural boundary of the channel of Nass river lying to the south and east of district lot 7282, and Continuing along the left natural boundary of nass river to the Southerly boundary of district lot 5287, cassiar district; Thence easterly and northerly along the southerly and easterly Boundaries of district lot 5287 to the left natural boundary of nass River;
Thence northeasterly along the left natural boundary of nass river to The left natural boundary of ksi sii aks; Thence easterly along the left natural boundary of ksi sii aks to the Westerly rectilinear boundary of district lot 4827, cassiar District;
Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 4827 to Corner #51 on the left natural boundary of ksi sii aks and being on a Line drawn parallel to and 460 metres perpendicularly distant northerly From the southerly boundary of the northwest ¼ of district lot 4011, Cassiar district; Thence easterly along the line drawn parallel to and 460 metres Perpendicularly distant northerly from the southerly boundary of the Northwest ¼ of district lot 4011 to corner #50 on the right natural Boundary of ksi sii aks; Thence southeasterly along the right natural boundary of ksi sii aks to The southerly boundary of block i of district lot 4012, cassiar District;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of block i of district lot 4012 to a line drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant Easterly from the right natural boundary of ksi sii aks; Thence southeasterly along the line drawn parallel to and 60 metres Perpendicularly distant easterly from the right natural boundary of ksi Sii aks to the easterly boundary of district lot 4012; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 4012 to the Right natural boundary of ksi sii aks; Thence southeasterly along the right natural boundary of ksi sii aks to The southerly boundary of district lot 2627, cassiar district; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 2627 to a Line drawn parallel to and 60 metres perpendicularly distant easterly From the right natural boundary of ksi sii aks; Thence southeasterly along the line drawn parallel to and 60 metres Perpendicularly distant easterly from the right natural boundary of ksi Sii aks to the southerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of District lot 4014, cassiar district; Thence northerly along the southerly prolongation of the easterly Boundary of district lot 4014, and continuing northerly along the Easterly boundary of district lot 4014 to post #49 as shown on plan nr50 Lisims land registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr50 lisims land Registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry, to post #48a; Thence continuing along the survey boundary of plan nr50 lisims land Registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry, to post #48; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112925m e 499804m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112589m e 500022m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112150m e 500040m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6111090m e 500820m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6110730m e 501215m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6110470m e 501400m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6109910m e 501500m; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6109430m e 501490m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6109080m e 501745m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6108410m e 502030m; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6105640m e 502240m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6106630m e 504175m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6107335m e 505113m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6110426m e 505181m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6111417m e 504577m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112611m e 505055m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6113901m e 504110m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6114207m e 503173m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to post #47 as shown on plan Nr50 lisims land registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr50 lisims land Registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry, to post #46; Thence continuing along the survey boundaries of plan nr50 lisims land Registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry, to post #45; Thence continuing along the survey boundary of plan nr50 lisims land Registry, plan 4tu1893 crown land registry, to post #44a on the summit Of mount priestley, being on the easterly boundary of the watershed of Ksi sg̱asginist; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of ksi sg̱asginist to the northerly boundary of the Watershed of crater creek; Thence in a general southerly direction along the boundary of the Watershed of crater creek to utm coordinate n 6102930m +/−, e 507313m; Thence northerly in a straight line to the middle thread of an unnamed Creek at utm coordinate n 6103385m +/−, e 507313m; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the middle thread of The unnamed creek to utm coordinate n 6105600m +/−, e 505299m; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the Middle thread of jay creek with the centreline of nisg̱a'a highway No.113;
Thence northwesterly in a straight line to a point on a line drawn Parallel to and 10 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the Centreline of nisg̱a'a highway no. 113 at utm coordinate n 6104605m, e 501840m +/−; Thence southerly along the line drawn parallel to and 10 metres Perpendicularly distant westerly from the centreline of nisg̱a'a highway No. 113 to the northerly boundary of plan 6tu1870 crown land registry; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly survey Boundaries of plan 6tu1870 crown land registry, to utm coordinate n 6094791m, e 499777m +/−; Thence westerly in a straight line to the left natural boundary of ksi Sii aks at utm coordinate n 6094791m, e 499582m +/−; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to a line drawn parallel to and 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the westerly natural Boundary of the west arm of lava lake at utm coordinate n 6095700m, E 498566m +/−; Thence in a general northerly direction along a line drawn parallel to And 100 metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the westerly Natural boundary of lava lake to the middle thread of aquila creek; Thence westerly along the middle thread of aquila creek to utm Coordinate n 6102897m +/−, e 500175m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6104060m e 500390m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6105128m e 500328m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6105650m e 501440m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6106440m e 501215m; Thence northerly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6107140m e 501215m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6107505m e 501015m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6108130m e 501065m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6108600m e 500865m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6109125m e 500510m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6109340m e 500475m; Thence northerly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6110070m e 500475m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6110420m e 500040m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6111020m e 499640m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6111235m e 499430m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6111885m e 499050m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112110m e 499000m; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112295m e 499030m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to utm coordinate n 6112600m e 498860m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to corner #64 as shown on plan Nr52 lisims land registry, plan 13tu1896 crown land registry; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr52 lisims land Registry, plan 13tu1896 crown land registry, through post #64 wt, corner 63b, and corner 63a to post #63; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr51 lisims land Registry, plan 12tu1896 crown land registry, through post #62, post #61, Corner 60a, post #60, corner 59a, post #59, corner 58a, and post #58 wt To corner #58 on the left natural boundary of ksi ts'oohl ts'ap; Thence westerly along the left natural boundary of ksi ts'oohl ts'ap to Corner #57 as shown on plan nr51 lisims land registry, plan 12tu1896 Crown land registry; Thence following the survey boundaries of plan nr51 lisims land Registry, plan 12tu1896 crown land registry, through post #57 wt, post 56a, post #56 and post #55 to post #54, being the point of commencement; Except:
Firstly, the branch of nisg̱a'a highway no. 113 shown as road on plan 11tu1711 crown land registry, and those lands lying between two lines Drawn parallel to and 12.5 metres perpendicularly distant from and on Opposite sides of the centre lines of all other branches of nisg̱a'a Highway no. 113 lying northerly of the middle line of jay creek; Secondly, all lands related to nisg̱a'a highway no. 113 on which a Provincial public undertaking, as defined in the Transportation act , is located; Thirdly, all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, contained within the following Described boundaries and containing 0.858 hectares more or less: a 30 metre wide corridor centred on a line commencing 12.5 metres Perpendicularly distant northeasterly from the centre line of nisg̱a'a Highway no. 113 at utm coordinate n 6115786m; thence to utm coordinate n 6115955m e 494491m; thence to utm coordinate n 6115971m e 494963m; Thence to utm coordinate n 6115971m e 494999m; thence along a grid Bearing of 118° 13' 00" to the boundary of nisg̱a'a lands, and the said Line produced; Fourthly, all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, contained within the following Described boundaries and containing 10.5 hectares more or less:
Commencing at the intersection of the northerly boundary of the park, The limits of which are defined by utm coordinates n 6105640m e 502240m and n 6106630m e 504175m, and a line having a grid bearing of 159° 46' 28" through utm coordinate n 6106080.8m e 503099.3m; thence Northeasterly along the said northerly boundary of the park 40.28 Metres; thence on a grid bearing of 159° 46' 28" a distance of 169.1 Metres; thence on a grid bearing of 69° 46' 28" a distance of 12.0 Metres; thence on a grid bearing of 159° 46' 28" a distance of 897 Metres more or less to the intersection with a portion of the southerly Boundary of the park; thence southwesterly along the portion of the said Southerly boundary to a line drawn parallel to and perpendicularly Distant 104 metres from the last described line bearing 159° 46' 28"; Thence on a grid bearing of 339° 46' 28" a distance of 889 metres more Or less to a point lying on a grid bearing of 249° 46' 28" from the Southerly limit of the 169.1 metre boundary described above; thence on a Grid bearing of 69° 46' 28" a distance of 22.0 metres; thence on a grid Bearing of 339° 46' 28" a distance of 161 metres more or less to The said northerly boundary of the park; thence northeasterly and along The said northerly boundary of the park a distance of 30.2 metres more Or less to the point of commencement; Fifthly, all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, contained within the described Boundaries as shown on plan 14tu2010 crown land registry; and Sixthly, that portion of unsurveyed crown land shown as road (now known As anlaw road) on plan 11tu1711 crown land registry, lying southeasterly Of the nass river.
The whole park containing approximately 17 717 hectares.
Anstey hunakwa park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1906; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests' beach bay road no. 9084.01; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of forests' road permits r07624, sections 89-1, 89-2 And 89-3; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' Road permits ro7631, sections 9-1 and 9-2; (4) ministry of forests' Licence a18669 cp707 block 1 cb1; and (5) the remainder of legal Subdivision 9, section 9, township 26, range 7, w6m, as shown on plan Kap55792.
The whole park containing approximately 6 852 hectares (6 666 hectares of upland and 186 hectares of foreshore).
Arrowstone park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1849; except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests' road indian hills main no. 5482-01.
The whole park containing approximately 6 153 hectares.
Artlish caves park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1919; except (1) the crown land that is subject to ministry of forests' road permit Ro6867; and (2) the crown land that is the subject to a 30 metre right Of way centred on ministry of forests' road permit ro1710.
The whole park containing approximately 285 hectares.
Atna river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 9 tube 1984; except (1) mineral claim "onuki 1" 527056; (2) mineral claim "new moon" 527061; (3) mineral claim "onuki 4" 525103; (4) mineral claim "at 8" 551829; and (5) mineral claim "at 12" 551837.
The whole park containing approximately 21 092 hectares.
Bearhole lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1868; except (1) petroleum and natural gas tenure 12129; (2) petroleum and natural Gas tenure 42292; and (3) petroleum and natural gas tenure 49195.
The whole park containing approximately 12 705 hectares.
Beatton park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in the peace river district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 363 hectares.
Beaver creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, contained with the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 6 tube 1929.
Secondly: lot a, lot 205, plan nep82552.
The whole park containing approximately 89 hectares.
Beaver valley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1992.
The whole park containing approximately 767 hectares.
Becher's prairie park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1992.
The whole park containing approximately 125 hectares.
Bedard aspen park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 26 Tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 182 hectares.
Big basin park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1992.
The whole park containing approximately 998 hectares.
Big creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1913.
The whole park containing approximately 67 918 hectares.
Bligh island marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of bligh Island, being due west of the northwest corner of district lot 156; Thence in a general easterly and northerly direction following the Northerly and westerly boundaries of the watersheds of three unnamed Creeks flowing southerly into nootka sound to the westerly boundary of The watershed of ewin inlet; Thence in a general northerly and easterly direction following the Westerly and northerly boundaries of the watershed of ewin inlet to a Point lying due east 880 metres and due south 250 metres from the Northeast corner of district lot 154; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to a point, lying due east of The southeast corner of district lot 154 on the easterly shore natural Boundary of bligh island; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 155° a distance of Approximately 1.2 kilometres to a point being the middle line of Zuciarte channel, and being the administration boundary between nootka District and clayoquot district; Thence southerly along the middle line of zuciarte channel to a point Lying due south a distance of 1.46 kilometres from the northeast corner Of district lot 157; Thence due west into cook channel, nootka sound, a distance of 5.4 Kilometres;
Thence due north into eliza passage, nootka sound, a distance of 8.2 Kilometres;
Thence due east into nootka sound a distance of 2.6 kilometres to a Point lying due west 2.1 kilometres and due south approximately 50 Metres from the northwest corner of district lot 105; Thence due south a distance of approximately 3.3 kilometres, being the Point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 4 455.6 hectares (1 584 hectares of upland and 2 871.6 hectares of Foreshore).
Blue earth lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1777; except the hat creek forest service road, project no.
8582.02.
The whole park containing approximately 689 hectares.
Bonaparte park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 13 541 hectares.
Boothman's oxbow park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1977.
The whole park containing approximately 43 hectares (36 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Bowron lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1848.
The whole park containing approximately 139 700 hectares.
Bridge river delta park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1995.
The whole park containing approximately 992 hectares.
Browne lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1877.
The whole park containing approximately 47 hectares.
Burgoyne bay park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in south saltspring island, Cowichan district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1953; except the road right of way shown on plan 54060.
The whole park containing approximately 524 hectares.
Burnie-shea park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1984; Except (1) mineral claim "south highlands" 545239; (2) mineral claim "el Toro" 533731; and (3) forest licence a16828, cutting permit gsnl, Cutblock 1, cutblock 2 and cutblock 8.
The whole park containing approximately 34 536 hectares.
Cariboo mountains park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1903; except (1) district lot 12573; and (2) district lot 11994.
The whole park containing approximately 113 470 hectares.
Cariboo river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 11655, being a point On the northerly shore natural boundary of cariboo lake; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 185° to the southerly shore natural Boundary of cariboo lake; Thence northeasterly along the southerly shore natural boundary of Cariboo lake to a point lying due south 1.95 kilometres and due east Approximately 150 metres from the northeast corner of district lot 11655; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 34° a distance of 1.06 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 62° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 46° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due north a distance of 300 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 85° to a point offset 15 metres Westerly of the centerline of ministry of forests' cariboo river road No. 6142.01;
Thence northeasterly along a line offset 15 metres westerly of the Centerline of ministry of forests' cariboo river road no. 6142.02, a Distance of approximately 2.2 kilometres to a point lying due east 3.86 Kilometres and due north 1.22 kilometres from the northeast corner of District lot 11655; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 60° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 353° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 333° a distance of 200 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 58° a distance of 2.1 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 342° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 40° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 35° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 1.25 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 28° a distance of 2.8 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 19° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 352° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 13° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 68° a distance of 300 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 349° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due west a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 354° a distance of 200 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 40° a distance of 250 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 349° a distance of 250 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 288° a distance of 450 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 21° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 62° a distance of 550 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 16° a distance of 1.45 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 338° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 298° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 243° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 162° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 113° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 206° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 203° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 276° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 221° a distance of 200 metres; Thence due south a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 200° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 165° a distance of 1.15 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 204° a distance of 2.6 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 188° a distance of 900 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 210° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 227° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 203° a distance of 2.2 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 221° a distance of 3.0 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 231° a distance of 2.6 kilometres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the northeast corner of District lot 11655, being the point of commencement; Except (1) lease of placer minerals 365850; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 7678-01, cunningham Pass; and (3) a 10 metre right of way centred on the non-status road Entering the park at utm zone 10 north 5855319 metres +/− east 616959 Metres +/− and exiting the park at utm zone 10 north 5855675 metres +/− East 617315 metres +/−.
The whole park containing approximately 3 211 hectares.
Castle rock hoodoos park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1908.
The whole park containing approximately 16 hectares.
Chasm park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 3 246 hectares.
Claud elliott lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1910.
The whole park containing approximately 328 hectares.
Copper johnny park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1998.
The whole park containing approximately 656 hectares.
Coquihalla river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1804.
The whole park containing approximately 103 hectares.
Cornwall hills park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1777.
The whole park containing approximately 1 235 hectares.
Cowichan river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cowichan district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 13 tube 1920; except (1) "skutz" indian reserve No. 7; (2) the canadian national railway right of way as shown on plans 11970s and 12150s; and (3) skutz falls forest service roads projects 6115.00 and 6115.02 (formerly ro 4473).
Secondly: lot 27 and lot 31, block 2a as shown on plan 1789 deposited in The victoria land title office.
The whole park containing approximately 1 418 hectares.
Crater lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1998; except Those portions of mineral claim 532209 lying outside the boundary of the Mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 23/2000 as crater lake - 100 Mile house goal 2 ppa and by reference to site number 372053.
The whole park containing approximately 95 hectares.
Dahl lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1843.
The whole park containing approximately 1 583 hectares.
Dall river old growth park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1781.
The whole park containing approximately 642 hectares.
Dante's inferno park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1992.
The whole park containing approximately 376 hectares.
Denetiah park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1786.
The whole park containing approximately 90 379 hectares.
Denison-bonneau park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1878.
The whole park containing approximately 376 hectares.
Denman island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in denman island, nanaimo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 Tube 2009; except (1) plan vip87752; (2) a 20 metre right of way Centred on pickles road; (3) a 20 metre right of way centred on central Road; and (4) a 20 metre right of way centred on lake road.
The whole park containing approximately 561 hectares.
Donnely lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1992.
The whole park containing approximately 814 hectares.
Dragon mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 1 773 hectares.
Eagle river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1878.
The whole park containing approximately 454 hectares.
E. c. manning park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in yale division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 6 tube 1813; except (1) highway 3 as Shown on land title office plans h150, h151, h157, h158, h215, h216, H217, h218, h219, h17630, epp108185, epp108186, epp126770 and Epp127373, all on deposit in the kamloops land title office; and (2) district lots 1971, 1972 and 1973, yale division yale District, as shown on plans epc2229 and epc2206, on deposit in the Crown land registry.
Secondly: commencing at the point of confluence between the middle Threads of coates creek and holding creek, said point of confluence Lying 3 800 metres west and 600 metres north, more or less, from The summit of granite mountain; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the middle thread of Holding creek to the point of confluence with the middle thread of Tulameen river; Thence in a straight line on a bearing of 278° a distance of 1 550 Metres, more or less, to the height of land forming the northerly Boundary of the watershed of an unnamed creek flowing easterly into the Tulameen river; Thence in a general westerly direction along said unnamed watershed Boundary to the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of podunk creek; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along said southeasterly Boundary of the watershed of podunk creek to an unnamed peak at utm zone 10 north 5463192 metres+/− east 643502 metres+/−, being also on the Northerly boundary of e. c. manning park as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1813; Thence in general northeasterly, southerly, southeasterly and easterly Directions along the northerly boundary of e. c. manning park as shown On the said official plan to a point thereon, said point lying on the Easterly boundary of the watershed of skaist river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the easterly boundaries of The watersheds of skaist river and tulameen river to the summit of Granite mountain; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the point of confluence Between the middle threads of coates creek and holding creek, being also The point of commencement.
Thirdly: district lot 1938, district lot 1939, district lot 1940 and District lot 1941 as shown on plan epc1255 deposited in the crown land Registry.
Fourthly: district lot 1942, district lot 1943, district lot 1944 and District lot 1945 as shown on plan epc1280 deposited in the crown land Registry.
Fifthly: district lot 1946 as shown on plan epc1423 deposited in the Crown land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 83 669 hectares .
Edge hills park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 2024; except (1) Mineral claim "stag 2" 208889; (2) placer claim "timer 3" 838199; and (3) placer claim "happy2" 1024809.
The whole park containing approximately 11 855 hectares.
Elephant hill park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1783; except the road right of way for highway 97c shown on Plan h-659.
The whole park containing approximately 968 hectares.
Eleven sisters park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1993; except Those portions of mineral claim 511965, mineral claim 606674, mineral Claim 606684, mineral claim 606686, mineral claim 606712, mineral claim 606714, mineral claim 606716, mineral claim 615863, mineral claim 840951 And mineral claim 840953 lying outside the boundary of the mineral Reserve established under b.c. reg. 163/96 as scum lake - Cariboo/chilcotin and by reference to site number 344759.
The whole park containing approximately 3 052 hectares.
Elk falls park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 1 074 hectares.
Enderby cliffs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 5 tube 1962; except a 100 metre by 100 metre Parcel centred on the tm mobile inc. communication site, licence 336024, On british columbia assets and land corporation file 03407670.
Secondly: parcel 1, southeast 1/4 of section 6, township 19, range 8, W6m, kamloops division, yale district, as shown on reference plan Epp179.
Thirdly: parcel 1, section 36, township 18, w6m, kamloops division, yale District, as shown on reference plan epp180.
The whole park containing approximately 2 299 hectares.
Epper passage park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 25 tube 1914.
The whole park containing approximately 328 hectares (54 hectares of upland and 274 hectares of foreshore).
Finger-tatuk park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1916; Except (1) district lot 2740, being "tatuk lake" indian reserve no. 7; And (2) district lot 2741.
The whole park containing approximately 17 127 hectares.
Flat lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1998.
The whole park containing approximately 4 275 hectares.
Francis point park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all That foreshore or land covered by water, contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 12 tube 1910.
Secondly: lot 108, block 2, district lot 1362, plan 19329.
The whole park containing approximately 83 hectares (74 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).
Francois lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1778; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on holycross forest service Road, project 942-7724-05; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on that Part of holycross forest service road transferred to ministry of Transportation for the purpose of a public highway pursuant to gazette Notice dated march 8, 1989; and (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road, permit ro 9196.
The whole park containing approximately 7 214 hectares.
Fraser river breaks park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1993; except a 20 metre right of way centred on the non-status road, chilcotin-meldrum Road.
The whole park containing approximately 883 hectares.
Fraser river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1836.
The whole park containing approximately 4 899 hectares.
Fred antoine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1995; except a 30 metre right of way centred on lillooet-pioneer road no. 40 and all Land on which a provincial public undertaking, as defined in the Transportation act , related to lillooet-pioneer road no. 40 is located.
The whole park containing approximately 8 230 hectares.
French bar creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1995; except a 50 metre corridor between the south and north boundaries of the park Centred on the following utm zone 10 coordinates: north 5675125 metres East 558046 metres, north 5675200 metres east 558041 metres, north 5675230 metres east 558008 metres, north 5675244 metres east 558011 Metres, north 5675275 metres east 558043 metres, north 5675352 metres East 558041 metres, north 5675436 metres east 558044 metres, north 5675477 metres east 558046 metres, north 5675598 metres east 558041 Metres, north 5675728 metres east 558027 metres, north 5675824 metres East 557997 metres.
The whole park containing approximately 1 159 hectares.
Gilpin grasslands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 2005; except (1) highway no. 3; (2) that part of district lot 264 shown on the plan attached to changes parcel book, volume 3, folio 350, no. 2778b similkameen division, yale district; (3) that part of District lot 265 included in the plan attached to changes parcel book, Volume 3, folio 350, similkameen division, yale district; (4) a 30 metre Right of way centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 6316-01, Gilpin creek; and (5) a 20 metre statutory right of way ca932291, on File in the land title office, kamloops.
The whole park containing approximately 912 hectares.
Gladstone park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 39 510 hectares.
God's pocket marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1940.
The whole park containing approximately 2 036 hectares (550 hectares of upland and 1 486 hectares of foreshore).
Gold muchalat park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1928; except The crown land that is subject to ministry of forests' road permit R06780.
The whole park containing approximately 645 hectares.
Gowlland tod park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in highland district, Central saanich district and malahat district and contained within the Following described boundaries:
Firstly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 5 tube 1978.
Secondly: lot a, section 38, highland district, plan vip86069.
The whole park containing approximately 1 280 hectares (955 hectares of upland and 325 hectares of foreshore).
Graham-laurier park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1782.
The whole park containing approximately 99 904 hectares.
Granby park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district, Osoyoos division, yale district and similkameen division, yale district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2021.
The whole park containing approximately 41 317 hectares.
Graystokes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1915.
The whole park containing approximately 11 958 hectares.
Greenstone mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 37 Tube 1774; except (1) district lot 5843, plan cg492; (2) greenstone Mountain road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway listed on the highway register as road 2094; and (3) the land Described as commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 5843; Thence due east a distance of 15.24 metres; Thence due south a distance of 440 metres; Thence due west a distance of 140 metres; Thence due north to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of District lot 5843; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 5843 and Continuing easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 5843 to The northeast corner of district lot 5843, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 124 hectares.
Gwyneth lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1995; except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range permit Road r12581‑1‑d.
The whole park containing approximately 132 hectares.
Harbour-dudgeon lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1784.
The whole park containing approximately 356 hectares.
Harry lake aspen park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1783.
The whole park containing approximately 327 hectares.
Height of the rockies park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1927.
The whole park containing approximately 54 170 hectares.
Hitchie creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in barclay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the southeasterly boundary of the watershed of Hitchie creek lying due west 380 metres and due north approximately 800 Metres from the northwest corner of "homitan" indian reserve no. 8 and Being on the boundary of the pacific rim national park reserve; Thence in a northeasterly direction along the hitchie creek watershed Boundary a distance of approximately 2.3 kilometres to a point lying due East of the headwaters of an unnamed creek flowing northwesterly into Hitchie creek and approximately 200 metres due north from the northerly Boundary of district lot 563; Thence due west to the headwaters of the unnamed creek and continuing Northwesterly along the left bank natural boundary of hitchie creek to The point of confluence with the left bank natural boundary of hitchie Creek;
Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 320° a distance of approximately 850 metres to a point on the westerly boundary of the watershed of Hitchie creek; Thence in a southwesterly direction along the hitchie creek watershed Boundary a distance of approximately 900 metres to the intersection with The northeasterly boundary of pacific rim national park reserve; Thence southeasterly and southerly along the pacific rim national park Reserve to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 247 hectares.
Hole-in-the-wall park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2024.
The whole park containing approximately 151 hectares.
Horne lake caves park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in alberni district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1908.
The whole protected area containing approximately 158 hectares.
Horneline creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1781.
The whole park containing approximately 298 hectares.
Itcha ilgachuz park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the right bank natural boundary of west road (blackwater) river lying due south 5.23 kilometres and due east Approximately 1.8 kilometres from the southeast corner of district lot 1204; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 73° a distance of 2.8 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 83° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence due east a distance of 900 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 108° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 129° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 137° a distance of 1.9 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 111°, a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 100° a distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 152° a distance of 900 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 165° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 140° a distance of 1.7 kilometres And crossing the natural boundaries of carnlick creek; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 144° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 130° a distance of 5.2 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 141° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 112° a distance of 600 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 98° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 80° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 88° a distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 64° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 38° a distance of 1.3 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 81° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 118° a distance of 3.3 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 109° a distance of 800 metres; Thence due east a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 82° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 62° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 37° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 54° a distance of 500 metres and Crossing the natural boundaries of shag creek; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 66° a distance of 1.3 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 60° a distance of 5.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 76° a distance of 4.2 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 72° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 66° a distance of 3.0 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 53° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 78° a distance of 500 metres; Thence due east a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 52° a distance of 600 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 80° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 122° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 142° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due south a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 190° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 210° a distance of 400 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 229° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 201° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due south a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 163° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 155° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 139° distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 150° a distance of 900 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 170° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 190° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 210° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 192° a distance of 3.5 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 216° a distance of 550 metres and Crossing the natural boundaries of chilcotin river; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 233° a distance of 700 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 220° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 217° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 189° a distance of 400 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 165° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 142° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 131° a distance of 5.5 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 145° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 150° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 165° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 185° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 191° a distance of 1.0 kilometre And crossing the natural boundaries of downtown creek; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 171° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 153° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 142° a distance of 1.9 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 166° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 175° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 191° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 207° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 219° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 236° a distance of approximately 1.25 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek Flowing southerly into punkutlaenkul creek; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 258° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 283° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 297° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 329° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 345° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 340° a distance of 1.35 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 313° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 297° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 275° a distance of 2.3 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 265° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 247° a distance of 700 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 232° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 241° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 255° a distance of 3.3 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 265° a distance of 1.4 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 278° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 290° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 313° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 326° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 349° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 310° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 304° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 290° a distance of 900 metres and Crossing the natural boundaries of hensman creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 325° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 303° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 351° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 330° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 325° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 302° a distance of 450 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 290° a distance of approximately 750 metres to the right bank natural boundary of lehman creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 280° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 285° a distance of 600 metres; Thence due west a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 282° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 275° a distance of 2.8 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 249° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 265° a distance of 1.45 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 248° a distance of 300 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 231° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 220° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 211° a distance of 400 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 229° a distance of 600 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 257° a distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 273° a distance 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 292° a distance of 650 metres; Thence due west a distance of 600 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 289° a distance of approximately 900 metres to the left bank natural boundary of christensen creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 316° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of approximately 2.2 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of lessard creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 292° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 285° a distance of 3.1 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 318° a distance of approximately 4.9 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of hump creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 330° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 340° a distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 344° a distance of approximately 1.4 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of arnica creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 347° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 350° a distance of approximately 1.65 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of far creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing 354° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 6° a distance of 2.2 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 351° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 340° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 323° a distance of 1.5 kilometres And crossing the natural boundary of festuca creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 349° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 12° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 23° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 41° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 52° a distance of approximately 900 Metres to the left bank natural boundary of tanswankel creek; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 59° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to a point on the right bank Natural boundary of west road (blackwater) river, due south 5.23 Kilometres and due east approximately 1.8 kilometres from the southeast Corner of district lot 1204, being the point of commencement; Except ilgachuz range ecological reserve.
The whole park containing approximately 109 063 hectares.
Junction sheep range park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1917.
The whole park containing approximately 4 774 hectares (4 585 hectares of upland and 189 hectares of foreshore).
Kalamalka lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1987; except (1) the statutory right of way over part of District lot 4678 as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown Land registry as plan 13 tube 1857 and in the kamloops land title Office as plan kap68177; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests and range road king edward – cj express, fsr 8217.03; and (3) A 30 metre right of way centred on the non-status road through the Northeast 1/4 of section 7, township 10, known as north oyama road.
The whole park containing approximately 3 218 hectares (3 104 hectares of upland and 114 hectares of foreshore).
Kianuko park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of district lot 8890 surveyed as Mineral claim "e.d. lee" 2; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of mineral claim "e.d. lee" 2, produced a distance of approximately 200 metres to the easterly Boundary of the watershed of kianuko creek; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of kianuko Creek passing through the summit of putman peak, to the summit of an Unnamed mountain which is a point on the kianuko creek watershed Boundary lying 450 metres due west and approximately 2.05 kilometres due South of putman peak, and which is also a point on the watershed Boundary separating 2 unnamed creeks that are tributary to, and which Flows southeasterly into, goat river; Thence southeasterly along the watershed boundary of the unnamed creeks To their intersection with a 5 000 foot (1 524 metre) contour; Thence southerly and westerly along the 5 000 foot (1 524 metre) contour To a point lying 1.35 kilometres due east of the most northerly Intersection of the left bank natural boundary of skelly creek with the Right bank natural boundary of kianuko creek; Thence southwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 258° a distance Of approximately 1.3 kilometres to the left bank natural boundary of Kianuko creek; Thence northerly along the natural boundary of kianuko creek to a point Lying due east of the most northerly intersection of the left bank Natural boundary of skelly creek with the right bank natural boundary of Kianuko creek; Thence due west to the most northerly intersection; Thence westerly along the most northerly natural boundary of skelly Creek a distance of 600 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 328° a distance Of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 297° a distance Of approximately 750 metres to the westerly boundary of the watershed of Kianuko creek; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the westerly boundary Of the watershed of kianuko creek, passing through the summit of craig Peak, to the summit of an unnamed mountain which is a point on the Kianuko creek watershed boundary lying 250 metres due east and Approximately 1.45 kilometres due north of craig peak; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the Middle line of sanca creek with a 6 300 foot (1 920 metre) contour; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the summit of an unnamed Mountain situated on the northerly boundary of the watershed of sanca Creek and lying 1.8 kilometres due east and approximately 300 metres due North of mount goodwin; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along the northerly Boundaries of the watersheds of sanca creek and kianuko creek, passing Through haystack mountain, to the easterly boundary of the watershed of Kianuko creek; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of kianuko Creek, passing through the summit of gillis peak, to the northerly Boundary of district lot 8890, surveyed as mineral claim "e.d. lee" 2; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 8890 to the Northeast corner of district lot 8890, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 11 637.9 hectares.
Kingfisher creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1879.
The whole park containing approximately 440 hectares.
Kiskatinaw river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1961; except The crown lands that are the subject of petroleum and natural gas Tenures 10410 and 7665.
The whole park containing approximately 154 hectares.
Klin-se-za park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1961.
The whole park containing approximately 2 689 hectares.
Kluskoil lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Range 4, coast district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the left bank natural boundary of west road (blackwater) river lying due west 1.1 kilometres and due north Approximately 500 metres from the northwest corner of district lot 9904, Cariboo district; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 206° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 242° a distance of 700 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 265° a distance of approximately 600 metres to the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek that Flows northerly into an unnamed lake; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 300° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 292° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 300° a distance of approximately 1.9 kilometres to the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek That flows northeasterly into west road (blackwater) river; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 306° a distance of 2.3 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 304° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 314° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 304° a distance of 3.0 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 295° a distance of approximately 1.35 kilometres to the right bank natural boundary of an unnamed creek That flows northeasterly into west road (blackwater) river; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 288° a distance of 400 metres; Thence due west a distance of 1.4 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 253° a distance of 1.9 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 261° a distance of 500 metres; Thence due west a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 300° a distance of 900 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 316° a distance of 800 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 343° a distance of 500 metres; Thence due north a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 335° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 318° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 289° a distance of 1.5 kilometres Crossing the westerly boundary of the cariboo district and the easterly Boundary of range 4, coast district; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 280° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 264° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 257° a distance of 4.35 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 237° a distance of 2.5 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 256° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of approximately 250 metres crossing west road (blackwater) river to the left bank Natural boundary of west road (blackwater) river; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 315° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 350° a distance of 900 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 16° a distance of 300 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 62° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 40° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 66° a distance of approximately 8.75 kilometres to the intersection with the westerly boundary of Cariboo district; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 65° a distance of approximately 550 Metres to a point lying 2.75 kilometres due west and approximately 1.9 Kilometres due north from the northwest corner of district lot 3437 on The natural boundary of an unnamed lake, that flows southeasterly into West road (blackwater) river; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 71° a distance of 860 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 83° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due east a distance of 2.7 kilometres; Thence southeasterly in a straight line a distance of approximately 2.1 Kilometres to a point on the westerly boundary of district lot 1380, Cariboo district; Thence due east a distance of 2.6 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 107° a distance of 3.0 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 130° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 148° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 169° a distance of 2.2 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 157° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 141° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 137° a distance of 1.8 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 119° a distance of 350 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 143° a distance 1.0 kilometre; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 131° a distance of 3.9 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 122° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 97° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 116° a distance of 400 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 165° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence due south a distance of approximately 700 metres to the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 15 548.1 hectares.
Kotcho lake village site park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1781.
The whole park containing approximately 34 hectares.
Lac le jeune park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 28 Tube 1779; except (1) the road right of way as shown on ministry of Transportation's drawing no. 358-0-2 dated march 27, 1990; and (2) the Road right of way shown on plan 11 tube 1625 deposited in the crown Land registry.
The whole park containing approximately 180 hectares.
Liard river corridor park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Cassiar district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1850.
The whole park containing approximately 83 159 hectares.
Long creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 2006; except Those portions of mineral claim 514285, mineral claim 514289, mineral Claim 602883 and mineral claim 650343 lying outside the boundary of the Mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 163/96 as long creek caribou Mineral lick-cariboo/chilcotin and by reference to site number 344749.
The whole park containing approximately 254 hectares.
Malaspina park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1877; Except (1) licence of occupation, crown lands (bcalc) file 2401816; (2) Licence of occupation, crown lands (bcalc) file 2402792; (3) licence of Occupation, crown lands (bcalc) file 2401814; and (4) licence of Occupation, crown lands (bcalc) file 2401858.
The whole park containing approximately 572 hectares.
Maquinna marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: lot a, district lot 1372, plan 10197, except part in plan 51118; Lot 1372, except parts in plans 10197, 10335 and 51118; District lot 486; District lot 697.
Secondly: commencing at the southeast corner of "openit" indian reserve No. 27, being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of sydney Inlet;
Thence due east a distance of 500 metres; Thence due south a distance of 1.67 kilometres; Thence westerly in a straight line to a point lying 500 metres due south From sharp point; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 280 a distance of 1.77 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 324 a distance of approximately 365 Metres to a point lying 174 metres due west and 440 metres due south From the southeast corner of district lot 1476 and lying parallel to and 500 metres perpendicularly distant from the westerly shore natural Boundary of vancouver island; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 500 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Vancouver island to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of District lot 1146; Thence due east to the northwest corner of district lot 1146, being a Point on the easterly shore natural boundary of hesquiat harbour; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of hesquiat harbour to a point, being the southwest corner of district Lot 1146;
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1146 to a Point lying parallel to and 300 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of hesquiat harbour; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 300 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of Hesquiat harbour to the intersection with the northerly boundary of District lot 1528, being "hisnit" indian reserve no. 34; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1528 to the Northeast corner of district lot 1528; Thence on a bearing of 62 a distance of 380 metres; Thence on a bearing of 116 a distance of 740 metres; Thence on a bearing of 164 a distance of 735 metres; Thence on a bearing of 138 a distance of 1.30 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 106 a distance of 1.12 kilometres; Thence on a bearing of 95 a distance of 910 metres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District lot 1474; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 1474 to the Utm east 697584 metre; Thence southerly in a straight line to the intersection of the utn east 697584 metre with the southerly boundary of district lot 1474:
Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1474 to the Southeast corner of block c, being "refuge cove" indian reserve no. 6 And a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of hot springs cove; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the northwest corner of District lot 1372 on the easterly shore natural boundary of hot spring Cove;
Thence in a general southerly direction along the natural boundary of Hot spring cove to the northwest corner of district lot 486; Thence easterly along the northerly boundary of district lot 486 to the Northeast corner of district lot 486 and being on the westerly shore Natural boundary of sydney inlet; Thence northerly along the natural boundary of sydney inlet to the Southeast corner of "openit" indian reserve no. 27, being the point of Commencement;
Except (1) district lot 1528 "hisnit" indian reserve no. 34; and (2) District lot 1895 "swan" indian reserve no. 35.
The whole park containing approximately 2,613 hectares (1,215 hectares of upland and 1,398 hectares of foreshore).
Mara meadows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1882; except woodlot licence w1572.
The whole park containing approximately 212 hectares.
Marble canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water situated in kamloops division, yale District and lillooet district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 5 tube 1995; except (1) the bc hydro right of way Described by: district lot 7954, district lot 7943, district lot 7942 in Lillooet district, district lot 5469 kamloops division, yale district And right of way plan cg 257; (2) a 30.5 metre right of way centred on The sea-to-sky highway no. 99 and all land on which a provincial public Undertaking, as defined in the Transportation act , related to sea-to-sky highway no. 99 is located; and (3) a 30 metre Right of way centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 7670-01, Tom cole.
The whole park containing approximately 2 544 hectares.
Marble range park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1998; except (1) mineral claim 208888; (2) mineral claim 208889; (3) mineral claim 310968; (4) mineral claim 310969; (5) mineral claim 310970; (6) mineral Claim 310971; (7) mineral claim 321062; (8) mineral claim 321063; (9) Mineral claim 321067; and (10) those portions of mineral claim 208932, Mineral claim 208933 and mineral claim 321064 lying outside the boundary Of the mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 374/2006 as marble Range - inholdings and by reference to site number 1001622.
The whole park containing approximately 19 236 hectares.
Marble river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in rupert district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1920; except (1) "kultah" indian reserve no. 4; (2) "maquazneecht" indian reserve no.
17; and (3) lot 6 (plan dd 18686i) of district lot 94.
The whole park containing approximately 1 419 hectares (1 015 hectares of upland and 404 hectares of foreshore).
Mcconnell lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 102 hectares.
Mehatl creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And yale division, yale district and contained within the following Described boundaries:
Commencing at the summit of mehatl peak; Thence southeasterly in a straight line to the summit of tiara tower; Thence on a bearing of 130° a distance of approximately 4.64 kilometres To the easterly boundary of the watershed of mehatl creek; Thence in a general southerly direction along the easterly boundary of The watershed of mehatl creek to the north limit of the railway belt, Being also the boundary between new westminster district and yale Division, yale district; Thence southerly along the north limit of the railway belt to the middle Line of nahatlatch river; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the middle line of Nahatlatch river to the southeasterly prolongation of the right bank Natural boundary of the first unnamed creek flowing southeasterly into Nahatlatch river situated southwest of whistlepig creek; Thence northwesterly along the southeasterly prolongation to the right Bank natural boundary of the unnamed creek flowing southeasterly into Nahatlatch river; Thence on a bearing of 309° a distance of approximately 3.9 kilometres To a point on the height of land separating the watersheds of mehatl Creek and nahatlatch river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the height of land to The summit of mount widdess; Thence northerly in a straight line a distance of approximately 4.68 Kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain lying approximately 2.28 Kilometres due west and approximately 2.65 kilometres due south of the Confluence of the middle lines of north mehatl creek and mehatl creek; Thence northwesterly in a straight line a distance of approximately 18.6 Kilometres to the summit of an unnamed mountain separating the Watersheds of mehatl creek, nahatlatch river and rogers creek; Thence northeasterly, easterly and southeasterly along the Northwesterly, northerly and northeasterly boundaries of the watershed Of mehatl creek to the summit of mehatl peak, being the point of Commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 23 860 hectares.
Milligan hills park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1878; except (1) petroleum and natural gas tenures 43859, 43910, 43911, 43912, 43913 And 46947; (2) the crown land that is the subject of wellsite wa 8639; (3) the crown land that is the subject of statutory right of way to Canadian hunter exploration ltd. wellsite as shown on file rs8008349; And (4) the crown land that is the subject of abandoned airstrip located On map 94h-060.
The whole park containing approximately 7 226 hectares.
Monashee park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and kootenay district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 2 tube 2016.
The whole park containing approximately 22 739 hectares.
Monte creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 16 Tube 1789.
The whole park containing approximately 3 hectares.
Moose valley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1998.
The whole park containing approximately 2 500 hectares.
Morice lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 13 tube 1984; except (1) mineral claim "onuki 3" 525101; (2) mineral claim "onuki" 525098; (3) mineral claim "onuki 2" 525099; (4) mineral claim "at 9" 551830; (5) mineral claim "lucky ship" 519568; (6) mineral claim "lucky ship" 519567; (7) mineral claim "lucky Ship" 513468; (8) mineral claim "lucky ship" 513467; (9) mineral claim 510117; (10) mineral claim "lucky ship" 513463; (11) mineral claim "lucky ship" 513464; (12) mineral claim "onuki" 537569; (13) a 30 metre Right of way centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 4656-05; (14) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Permit road r10640-21; (15) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests and range permit road r06951-6; (16) forest licence a16828, Cutting permit 758, cutblock kidp 11 and cutblock kidp 12; (17) forest Licence a16828, cutting permit nnka, cutblock 0n3; (18) forest licence A16828, cutblock kidp 0014; (19) forest licence a16828, cutblock kidp 0062; (20) forest licence a16828, cutblock kidp 0098; and (21) special Use permit s09744.
The whole park containing approximately 52 430 hectares.
Mount geoffrey escarpment park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in hornby island, nanaimo District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the south west 1/4 of section 2, lying to the north of plan 8602, except that part in plan 16485 and vip 75395; Secondly: lot 1, section 2, plan vip 75395; Thirdly: lot a, section 3, plan vip 75396; Fourthly: south east 1/4 of section 3; and Fifthly: the south 1/2 of the south 1/2 of the south 1/2 of section 4.
The whole park containing approximately 187 hectares.
Mount griffin park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1915.
The whole park containing approximately 1 758 hectares.
Mount robson park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Firstly: the northwest 1/4 of district lot 5671 and the fractional north 1/2 of district lot 5672.
Secondly: commencing at the northwest corner of district lot 5676; Thence due north to a point lying due west of the northwest corner of District lot 5669; Thence due west to a point lying due south of the summit of mount Longstaff;
Thence due north, passing through the summit of mount longstaff, to the British columbia-alberta boundary; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the british Columbia-alberta boundary to the southerly boundary of the watershed of Fraser river; Thence in a general northwesterly direction along the southerly boundary Of the watershed of fraser river to a point lying due south of the Southeast corner of district lot 5671; Thence due north to the southeast corner of district lot 5671; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 5671 to the Northeast corner of district lot 5671; Thence northerly in a straight line, crossing the fraser river, to the Southeast corner of district lot 5668, and continuing northerly along The easterly boundary of district lot 5668 to the northerly boundary of Yellowhead highway, as shown on plan 18826; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of yellowhead highway, plan 18826, following an arc, to the left, of 328.6 metres, and continuing Westerly along the northerly boundary of yellowhead highway a distance Of 5.15 metres to the southeast corner of lot 1 of the fractional Northeast 1/4 of district lot 5668, plan 18530; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of lot 1, plan 18530, to the most northerly northwest corner Of lot 1, plan 18530; Thence northeasterly in a straight line to the most westerly southwest Corner of parcel a, plan 26481, of the fractional northeast 1/4 of District lot 5668, being a point on the easterly boundary of kinney lake Road, plan 18826; Thence northeasterly along the westerly boundary of parcel a, plan 26481, to the northwest corner of parcel a, being a point on the Northerly boundary of the fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 5668; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 5668 to the most northerly northwest corner of District lot 5668, being a point on the left bank natural boundary of Robson river; Thence southwesterly along the left bank natural boundary of robson River to the most westerly northwest corner of the fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 5668, being a point on the natural boundary of Robson river; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the fractional northeast 1/4 of district lot 5668 to the southwest corner of district lot 5668; Thence easterly in a straight line to the intersection of the southerly Boundary of yellowhead highway, plan 18826, with the easterly boundary Of the west 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of district lot 5668; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of district lot 5668 to the southeast corner of district Lot 5668, being a point on the natural boundary of fraser river, on the Right bank of district lot 5668; Thence in a general westerly direction along the right bank natural Boundary of fraser river to the southwest corner of district lot 5669, Being a point on the natural boundary of fraser river; Thence northerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 5669 to the Northeast corner of district lot 5673; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of district lot 5673 to the northeast corner of district lot 5676; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 5676 to the Northwest corner of district lot 5676, being the point of commencement; Except (1) district lots 3727, 10017 and 10018; (2) the road right of Way in the west 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of district lot 5668; (3) Yellowhead highway right of way as shown on plans 18825 and 18826, Except that part shown as closed road on plan epp98087; (4) a 61 metre Right of way centred on the yellowhead highway easterly from the Yellowhead highway right of way as shown on plan 18826 to the british Columbia-alberta border; (5) lot 1 of district lot 5662 as shown on plan 17209; (6) the canadian national railway right of way designated as District lots 12650 (plan 18869), 5767 (plan 28133), 5926 (plan 28780), 5823 (plan 28838), 5824 (plan 28866) and district lot 5769 together with Block a of district lot 5661, block a of district lot 5662, block a of District lot 5664 and block a of district lot 5665 (all on plan 28792); (7) the grand trunk pacific railway right of way designated as district Lot 3743 on plan c.g. 122; (8) the canadian northern pacific railway Right of way designated as district lots 3736 and 3745 on plans c.g. 122 And c.g. 126, respectively, with all plans being on deposit in the land Title office in prince george; (9) those parcels shown in railway Expansion report dated december 12, 1989, filed on parks branch file 2-4-3-1-24; and (10) all those parcels or tracts of crown land, together With all that foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1983, plan 2 tube 1983 and plan 3 tube 1983.
Thirdly: as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 3 tube 1848, and containing 5 950 hectares; Except district lot 5677.
Fourthly: commencing on the westerly boundary of mount robson park at Utm zone 11 north 5873697 metres east 350675 metres +/−; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of mount robson park to the North boundary of mount terry fox park as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1813; Thence westerly along the boundary of mount terry fox park as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1813 to the northwest corner; Thence to utm zone 11 north 5871969 metres east 347623 metres; Thence to utm zone 11 north 5873085 metres east 348165 metres; Thence to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 225 286 hectares.
Mount savona park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 36 Tube 1774; except the crown land that is the subject of grazing Lease 334322, file 0095880.
The whole park containing approximately 382 hectares.
Myra-bellevue park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and similkameen division, yale district and contained within The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2020.
The whole park containing approximately 7 696 hectares.
Nadina mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1984.
The whole park containing approximately 2 789 hectares.
Nation lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1863; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests' road Tchentlo no. 9275.01; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests road fall-tsayta no. 7785.03; (3) mineral claim "schnapps #1" 238722; (4) mineral claim "schnapps #2" 238723; (5) mineral claim "schnapps #4" 238860; (6) mineral claim "indata 2" 239379; and (7) Mineral claim "indata 3" 240192.
The whole park containing approximately 19 398 hectares (19 306 hectares of upland and 92 hectares of foreshore).
Nazko lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northwest corner of the southwest 1/4 of district lot 4822; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 348° to the southerly boundary of District lot 4814; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the intersection of the Westerly boundary of district lot 4808 with the northerly boundary of The clusko river-thunder mountain forest service road, project 7356, Branch 04;
Thence northwesterly along the northerly boundary of the clusko River-thunder mountain forest service road, a distance of 300 metres; Thence due north a distance of 300 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 319° a distance of 2.7 kilometres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 353° a distance of 600 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 317° a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 303° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 20° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 65° a distance of 900 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 74° a distance of 900 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 58° a distance of approximately 500 Metres to a point on the northerly boundary of district lot 4785; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 25° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 14° a distance of 2.6 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 6.4 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 17° a distance of 3.0 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 24° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 38° a distance of 5.0 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 44° a distance of 2.4 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 600 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 107° a distance of 1.6 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 700 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 223° a distance of 6.8 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 1.4 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 123° a distance of 3.1 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 151° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 188° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 203° a distance of 2.0 kilometres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 233° a distance of approximately 800 metres to a point on the northerly boundary of the watershed of Copper creek; Thence in a general southwesterly direction along the copper creek Watershed boundary to a point lying due west 1.25 kilometres and due North approximately 1.6 kilometres from the northwest corner of district Lot 6699;
Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 193° a distance of 2.1 kilometres; Thence due south to the northerly boundary of district lot 4793; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to the southwest corner of the Southwest 1/4 of district lot 4793; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 191° a distance of 1.65 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 171° a distance of 900 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 159° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence due south to the intersection with the southerly boundary of Clusko river-thunder mountain forest service road, project 7356, branch 04; Thence in a general southerly direction along the southerly boundary of Clusko river-thunder mountain forest service road, project 7356, to the Intersection with the westerly boundary of a road travelling Southwesterly through district lots 4818 and 4821; Thence southwesterly along the westerly boundary to the intersection With the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of district lot 4821; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the south 1/2 of District lot 4821 and continuing westerly along the northerly boundary Of the southeast 1/4 of district lot 4822 to the northwest corner of District lot 4822, being the point of commencement; Except (1) the fractional northwest 1/4 of district lot 4799; (2) the Southwest 1/4 of district lot 4799; (3) the northeast 1/4 of district Lot 4800; and (4) the crown land that is the subject of clusko River-thunder mountain forest service road, project 7357, branches 04 And 11.
The whole park containing approximately 7 854 hectares.
Nenikë​kh/nanika-kidprice park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 12 tube 1984; except (1) mineral claim 537570; (2) Mineral claim 537571; (3) mineral claim 537573; (4) mineral claim "lucky Ship" 554120; and (5) forest licence a16828, cutblock kidp 0023.
The whole park containing approximately 17 006 hectares.
North thompson oxbows jensen island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of lot 1, section 10, township 22, Range 17, w6m, plan 22436, being a point on the left bank natural Boundary of a backwater of north thompson river; Thence due west to the right bank natural boundary of the backwater of North thompson river; Thence in general northerly, easterly and southerly directions along the Backwater right bank natural boundary to a point lying due east of the Most southerly southeast corner of district lot 1780; Thence due west to the most southerly southeast corner of district lot 1780, on the left bank natural boundary of the backwater of north Thompson river; Thence in general northerly, westerly and southerly directions along the Left bank natural boundary to the southwest corner of lot 1, section 10, Township 22, range 17, w6m, plan 22436, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 30 hectares.
Northern rocky mountains park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1878; except District lot 699.
The whole park containing approximately 665 709 hectares.
Nuntsi park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1918.
The whole park containing approximately 20 570 hectares (20 538 hectares of upland and 32 hectares of foreshore).
Okanagan mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2024.
The whole park containing approximately 11 321 hectares.
Old man lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 Tube 1984.
The whole park containing approximately 326 hectares.
Omineca park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2024.
The whole park containing approximately 132 417 hectares.
Oregana creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1852; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on the Ministry of forests and range road fsr 0565-03, finn-tum from the west Boundary of the park to the middle thread of oregana creek; (2) a 40 Metre right of way 25 metres perpendicularly distant easterly and 15 Metres perpendicularly distant westerly from the centerline of ministry Of forests and range road fsr 0565-03, finn-tum lying north of the Middle thread of oregana creek; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests and range permit road r15237, bear spur; (4) a 30 Metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range permit road R15236-1200; (5) a gravel pit contained within the described boundaries In utm zone 11 commencing at the junction of the centre lines of roads Fsr 0565-03, finn-tum and r15236-1200 at utm north 5761520 metres +/−, Thence southerly along the centre line of road r15236-1200 to utm north 5761335 metres, thence to utm north 5761335 metres east 356820 metres, Thence to utm north 5761465 metres east 356820 metres, thence to the Point of commencement; and (6) a 50 metre right of way 40 metres Perpendicularly distant westerly and 10 metres perpendicularly distant Easterly from the centre line of ministry of forests and range permit Road r15236-1100.
The whole park containing approximately 286 hectares.
Oregon jack park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 20 Tube 1780; except a section 42 Transportation act Highway right of way identified as hat creek road 2101.
The whole park containing approximately 230 hectares.
Painted bluffs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1783; except (1) the canadian national railway right of way, Being plan a533; and (2) district lots 2197, 2198, 2199 and 2200.
The whole park containing approximately 98 hectares.
Patterson lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2006; Except a 20 metre right of way centred on the non-status road.
The whole park containing approximately 1 595 hectares.
Paul lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 2006.
The whole park containing approximately 728 hectares.
Peace river corridor park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 2 034 hectares.
Pennask creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 Tube 1915; except (1) okanagan connector highway no. 97c as shown On official plan 13 tube 1498; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred On resource roads within and along official plan 8 tube 1328, plan 12 tube 850 and plan 2 tube 854 (being bc hydro rights of Way); and (3) official plan 14 tube 1498; (4) a 30 metre right of Way centred on ministry of forests' sunset lake forest service road 8695.01; and (5) a 20 metre right of way centred on the existing Non-status road accessing the hidden lake area.
The whole park containing approximately 1 243 hectares.
Pillar park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1876; except ministry of transportation's chase-falkland road Rs7880, gazetted june 17, 1982.
The whole park containing approximately 2.34 hectares.
Pine le moray park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Cariboo district and contained within the following described Boundaries:
Firstly: the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1847; except (1) the right of way of the british columbia railway, district lot 13049, cariboo district, shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as 6ry307; (2) the right of way of the british Columbia railway, district lot 4081, peace river district shown on the Preliminary plan prepared by tom j. tryon, bcls, the survey completed October 26, 2000, a copy of which is on file with crown land registry as 5ry307; (3) the right of way of the british columbia railway, district Lot 4082, peace river district shown on the preliminary plan prepared by Tom j. tryon, bcls, the survey completed october 20, 2000, a copy of Which is on file with crown land registry as 4ry307; and (4) a 50 metre Strip of land southerly and easterly of the pipeline right of way shown On the official plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 508 and plan 2 tube 508.
Secondly: the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1870; except (1) ministry of transportation's gravel reserve 0239965; and (2) the Right of way of the british columbia railway, district lot 13049, Cariboo district, shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as 6ry307.
The whole park containing approximately 43 245 hectares.
Pinecone burke park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the northeast corner of "pitt lake" indian reserve no. 4, Being a point on the westerly shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of "pitt lake" indian Reserve no. 4 to the easterly boundary of fractional legal subdivision 3, section 9, township 5, range 5, w7m; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of the fractional legal subdivision 3 to the easterly Boundary of section 12, township 41, ecm; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of section 12 to the southeast corner of the west 1/2 of Legal subdivision 13, section 9, township 5, range 5, w7m; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the west 1/2 of legal Subdivision 13, section 9, to the southerly boundary of section 16, Township 5, range 5, w7m; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of section 16 to the Southeast corner of the west 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of section 16; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of the west 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of section 16 to the Northeast corner of the southwest 1/4 of section 16; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the southwest 1/4 of section 16 to the northwest corner of The west 1/2 of legal subdivision 13, section 9; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the west 1/2 of legal Subdivision 13, section 9, to the northerly boundary of section 12, Township 41, ecm; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of section 12 to the Northeast corner of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of section 12; Thence southerly and westerly along the easterly and southerly Boundaries of the west 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of section 12 to the Westerly boundary of section 12; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of section 12 to the Northeast corner of the northeast 1/4 of section 2, township 41, ecm; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the northeast 1/4 of section 2 to the northwest corner of The southeast 1/4 of section 2 and continuing southerly along the Westerly boundary of the southeast 1/4 of section 2, produced to the Northeast corner of the east 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of section 35, Township 40, ecm; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the east 1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of section 35 to the Northerly boundary of that part of the southwest 1/4 of section 35 lying West of pitt river; Thence westerly along the southwest 1/4 of section 35 produced to the Westerly boundary of section 35; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of section 35 to the Northeast corner of section 27 and continuing southerly along the Easterly boundary of section 27 to the northeast corner of the Fractional east 1/2 of legal subdivision 9, of section 27; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the fractional east 1/2 of legal subdivision 9 to the Northerly boundary of the east 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of section 27; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of the fractional east 1/2 of the southeast 1/4 of section 27 To the northeast corner of legal subdivision 2, of section 27; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of legal subdivision 2 to The northwest corner of legal subdivision 2; Thence westerly in a straight line to northeast corner of district lot 6700; Thence southerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 6700 Produced to the northeast corner of legal subdivision 16, of section 21, Township 40, ecm; Thence westerly along the northerly boundaries of legal subdivisions 16 And 15 to the northwest corner of legal subdivision 15; Thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of legal subdivisions 15 And 10 to the northeast corner of the east 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 21;
Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the east 1/2 of the Southwest 1/4 of section 21 to the northeast corner of legal subdivision 5; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundaries of legal subdivision 5 to the westerly boundary Of the east 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of section 21; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of the east 1/2 of the Southwest 1/4 of section 21 produced to the northerly boundary of Section 16, township 40, ecm; Thence westerly along the northerly boundaries of sections 16 and 17 to The northwest corner of legal subdivision 15 of section 17; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of section 17 a distance of 377.8 metres; Thence due south a distance of 394.4 metres; Thence due west a distance of 199.0 metres; Thence due south a distance of 197.2 metres; Thence due west to the easterly boundary of section 18, township 40, Ecm;
Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of section 18 to the northwest corner of lot 3, legal Subdivision 15, section 18, as shown on plan 34286; Thence due north to the southerly boundary of the road right of way as Shown on plan 22226; Thence due west to a point due south of the most easterly southeast Corner of district lot 7086; Thence due north to the most easterly, southeast corner of district lot 7086; Thence northerly and westerly along the easterly and northerly Boundaries of district lot 7086 to the northwest corner of district lot 7086; Thence due west to the left bank natural boundary of coquitlam river; Thence in a general northerly direction along the natural boundary of Coquitlam river to a point lying due east of the southeast corner of District lot 5739, and being also a point on the southerly boundary of The coquitlam conservation area as shown on the plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 11 tube 396; Thence in general northeasterly, northerly, westerly and southwesterly Directions along the southeasterly, easterly, northerly and Northwesterly boundaries of the coquitlam conservation area to a point Lying 680 metres due south and approximately 2.30 kilometres due east of The southeast corner of section 2, township 7, range 7, w7m; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 321° a distance Of 2.94 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 800 metres; Thence due west a distance of approximately 580 metres to the northerly Boundary of the watershed of norton lake; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of the watershed of norton Lake to the easterly boundary of the watershed of young creek; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of the watershed of young Creek to an unnamed peak, being on a ridge located northwest of Meslilloet mountain, and being also a point on the southerly boundary of The watershed of meslilloet creek; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of approximately 322° a distance of Approximately 2.2 kilometres to the point where the right bank natural Boundary of an unnamed creek that flows southerly into meslilloet creek Meets the right bank natural boundaries of meslilloet creek; Thence due north a distance of 880 metres; Thence due west a distance of 2.10 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 960 metres; Thence due west a distance of 1.20 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of 1.56 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 4.24 kilometres; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 59° a distance Of 1.68 kilometres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line to the southeast corner of District lot 1228 (tl 3289p); Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 1228 to the Northeast corner of district lot 1228; Thence northeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately 41° a distance of approximately 4.04 kilometres to the point where an Unnamed creek flowing southwesterly into crawford creek meet at the Right bank natural boundaries of crawford creek and the unnamed creek; Thence due north a distance of 700 metres; Thence northwesterly in a straight line on a bearing of 320° a distance Of approximately 3.92 kilometres to the southerly boundary of garibaldi Provincial park; Thence due east along the southerly boundary of garibaldi provincial Park a distance of 6.22 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 3.38 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 500 metres; Thence due south a distance of 5.44 kilometres; Thence due east a distance of 780 metres; Thence due south a distance of approximately 1.60 kilometres to the left Bank natural boundary of homer creek; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of 137° a distance Of 3.56 kilometres; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately 159° a distance of approximately 1.70 kilometres to the point where the Right bank natural boundaries of boise creek and bull creek meet; Thence southeasterly in a straight line on a bearing of approximately 126° a distance of approximately 2.25 kilometres to an unnamed peak, Being a point on the easterly boundary of the watershed of bull creek; Thence southerly along the easterly boundaries of the watersheds of bull Creek and debeck creek to a point lying due west of the southwest corner Of district lot 3011; Thence due east to the westerly shore natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Easterly corner of block a, of district lots 7797 and 6979; Thence northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the Northeasterly, northwesterly and southwesterly boundaries of block a to The most northerly corner of district lot 7031; Thence southwesterly and southeasterly along the northwesterly and Southwesterly boundaries of district lot 7031 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Northerly corner of district lot 7696; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 7696 and continuing southeasterly along the southwesterly boundaries of District lots 7696, 7013 and 7685, to the southwest corner of district Lot 7685;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along the southerly and southeasterly Boundaries of district lot 7685 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the natural boundary Of pitt lake to the most northerly corner of district lot 7014; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 7014 to most westerly corner of district lot 7014; Thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundaries of district lots 7014 and 6980, and continuing northeasterly along the southeasterly Boundary of district lot 6980 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake, crossing Debeck creek at its mouth, to the most northerly corner of district lot 3143; Thence southwesterly, southeasterly and northeasterly along the Northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly boundaries of district Lot 3143 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly boundary of district lot 3140; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 3140 to the most westerly corner of district lot 3140; Thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundaries of district lots 3140 and 3052, and continuing northeasterly along the southeasterly Boundary of district lot 3052 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Northerly corner of district lot 3051; Thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 3051, and continuing southeasterly along the southwesterly boundaries of District lots 3051 and 3151, and continuing northeasterly along the Southeasterly boundary of district lot 3151 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northwest corner of district lot 3022; Thence southerly, easterly and northerly along westerly, southerly and Easterly boundaries of district lot 3022 to the natural boundary of pitt Lake;
Thence easterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the northwest Corner of district lot 2988; Thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 2988 to the most westerly corner of district Lot 7290;
Thence southeasterly and northeasterly along the southwesterly and Southeasterly boundaries of district lot 7290 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Northerly corner of district lot 3222; Thence southwesterly, southeasterly and northeasterly along the Northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly boundaries of district Lot 3222 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Northerly corner of district lot 2378; Thence southwesterly, southeasterly and northeasterly along the Northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly boundaries of district Lot 2378 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 6871; Thence northwesterly, southerly and southeasterly along the Northeasterly, westerly and southwesterly boundaries of district lot 6871 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Southerly northeast corner of district lot 7682; Thence northerly, westerly, southerly and westerly along the easterly, Northerly, westerly and northerly boundaries of district lot 7682 to the Most westerly northwest corner of district lot 7682; Thence southerly along the westerly boundaries of district lot 7682 and District lot 488, and continuing easterly along the southerly boundary Of district lot 488 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Southeast corner of district lot 6974; Thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the easterly, northerly And westerly boundaries of district lot 6974 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7342; Thence northwesterly and southwesterly along the northeasterly and Northwesterly boundaries of district lot 7342, and continuing Southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary of district lot 6244 to The northwest corner of district lot 6914; Thence southwesterly, southerly and easterly along the northwesterly, Westerly and southerly boundaries of district lot 6914 to the natural Boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7230; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly Boundaries of district lot 7230, and continuing southerly along the Westerly boundaries of district lot 1850 and district lot 3137, and Easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 3137 to the Natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of legal subdivision 5, section 23, township 5, range 5, w7m; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundaries of legal subdivision 5, and continuing easterly Along the southerly boundary of legal subdivision 6 to the natural Boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7233; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundary of district lot 7233 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 6569; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly boundary Of district lot 6569, and continuing southerly and easterly along the Westerly and southerly boundary of district lot 6947 to the natural Boundary of pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the most Easterly corner of district lot 7229; Thence northwesterly, southwesterly and southeasterly along the Northeasterly, northwesterly and southwesterly boundary of district lot 7229 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 6991; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly boundary Of district lot 6991, and continuing southerly along the westerly Boundaries of district lot 7038 and district lot 6751 to the northeast Corner of district lot 7057; Thence westerly and southerly along the northerly and westerly boundary Of district lot 7057 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7047; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundary of district lot 7047 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 6950; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundary of district lot 6950 to the northwest corner of District lot 7185; Thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of district lot 7185 to the northwest corner of district lot 6948; Thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 6948 to the natural boundary of pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7094; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundary of district lot 7094 to the natural boundary of Pitt lake; Thence southerly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of district lot 7683; Thence southwesterly, southerly and easterly along the northwesterly, Westerly and southerly boundaries of district lot 7683 to the natural Boundary of pitt lake; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of pitt lake to the Northeast corner of "pitt lake" indian reserve no. 4; being the point of Commencement; except rem. 11, section 24.
The whole park containing approximately 38 000 hectares.
Pink mountain park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1779; except Petroleum and natural gas tenure 10001.
The whole park containing approximately 92 hectares.
Pritchard park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1787.
The whole park containing approximately 43 hectares.
Prophet river hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1782.
The whole park containing approximately 184 hectares.
Pukeashun park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 1915.
The whole park containing approximately 1 779 hectares.
Punti island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2006.
The whole park containing approximately 12 hectares.
Purcell wilderness conservancy park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kootenay district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2019.
The whole park containing approximately 201 913 hectares.
Quesnel lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2006; except (1) those portions of mineral claim 518216 lying outside the boundary of The mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 296/2005 as quesnel lake - faux bay and by reference to site number 1000407; (2) those portions Of mineral claim 409496, mineral claim 409497 and mineral claim 525437 Lying outside the boundary of the mineral reserve established under b.c.
Reg. 296/2005 as quesnel lake - horsefly bay and by reference to site Number 1000408; and (3) those portions of placer claim 616043 lying Outside the boundary of the mineral reserve established under b.c. reg.
296/2005 as quesnel lake - faux bay and by reference to site number 1000407.
The whole park containing approximately 992 hectares.
Rainbow alley park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1788.
The whole park containing approximately 110 hectares.
Rainbow/q'iwentem park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1992; except a 20 metre right of way centred on deka lake road ending at the boundary Of district lot 8175.
The whole park containing approximately 385 hectares.
Read island park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southwest corner of district lot 1179; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 1179 to the Southeast corner of district lot 1179, being a point on the easterly Shore natural boundary of read island; Thence in general southwesterly, westerly and northerly directions along The natural boundary of the easterly, southerly and westerly shore of Read island to the southwest corner of district lot 285; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 285 to the Northwest corner of district lot 948; Thence southerly and easterly along the westerly and southerly Boundaries of district lot 948 to a point on the westerly shore natural Boundary of rosen lake; Thence due east to a point lying due south of the most easterly Southeast corner of district lot 948; Thence due north to the most easterly southeast corner; Thence northerly along the easterly boundary of district lot 948 to the Southwest corner of district lot 286; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of district lot 286 a Distance of 300 metres; Thence due south a distance of 600 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° to the point of intersection With the westerly boundary of district lot 1179; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of district lot 1179 to the Southwest corner of district lot 1179, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 637 hectares.
Redbrush park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3 coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2006.
The whole park containing approximately 1 165 hectares.
Redfern-keily park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Cassiar district and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1851.
The whole park containing approximately 80 712 hectares.
Roche lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1987; except (1) blocks d and e of section 29, township 17, Range 16, w6m; (2) block a of section 33, township 17, range 16, w6m; (3) roche lake road, a section 42 Transportation act Highway, identified on the highways road register as road 4088; and (4) The southeast 1/4 of section 33, township 17, range 16, w6m, except that Part covered by the waters of roche lake at the time of survey of roche Lake as shown on a plan of survey of township 17 dated at ottawa, march 13, 1913 and plan 23917.
The whole park containing approximately 2 027 hectares.
Rock bay marine park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the southeast corner of district lot 376, being a point on The natural boundary of discovery passage; Thence due east a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence due north a distance of approximately 2.5 kilometres to a point In nodales channel of johnstone strait, lying 500 metres perpendicularly Distant from the boundary between sayward district and range 1, coast District;
Thence westerly along a line drawn parallel to and 500 metres Perpendicularly distant from the boundary between sayward district and Range 1, coast district, to a point lying due north of the northwest Corner of district lot 316; Thence due south to the northwest corner of district lot 316, being a Point on the natural boundary of johnstone strait; Thence in a general southeasterly and southwesterly direction along the Natural boundary johnstone strait to the southeast corner of district Lot 376, being the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 525.6 hectares (2.3 hectares of upland and 523.3 hectares of foreshore).
Say nuth khaw yum park [a.k.a. indian arm park] All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster District, group 1 and contained within the described boundaries as shown On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 2010.
The whole park containing approximately 6 689 hectares.
Scatter river old growth park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1781.
The whole park containing approximately 1 140 hectares.
Schoolhouse lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1999; except (1) those portions of mineral claim 508185 lying outside the boundary of The mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 23/2000 as eagle creek West - 100 mile house goal 2 ppa and by reference to site number 372055; And (2) those portions of mineral claim 505254, mineral claim 507667, Mineral claim 508185, mineral claim 517575, mineral claim 554089 and Mineral claim 560651 lying inside the boundary of the mineral reserve Established under b.c. reg. 280/2007 as schoolhouse lake park addition And by reference to site number 1005403.
The whole park containing approximately 5 106 hectares.
Shuswap river islands park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 1876.
The whole park containing approximately 185 hectares (159 hectares of upland and 26 hectares of foreshore).
Sikanni chief canyon park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1961; except The crown lands that are the subject of petroleum and natural gas Tenures 8723, 45095 and 13753.
The whole park containing approximately 4 641 hectares.
Sikanni old growth park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1779.
The whole park containing approximately 1 439 hectares.
Skaha bluffs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 2022.
The whole park containing approximately 554 hectares.
Skookumchuck rapids park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 Tube 1876.
The whole park containing approximately 71 hectares (65 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Smith river falls – fort halkett park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1918; except The crown land subject to highway gravel reserve no. 898020, file 8004997.
The whole park containing approximately 254 hectares (237 hectares of upland and 17 hectares of foreshore).
South chilcotin mountains park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1995.
The whole park containing approximately 56 796 hectares.
Stawamus chief park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 2011.
The whole park containing approximately 530 hectares.
Stein valley nlaka'pamux heritage park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the most westerly southwest corner of "lytton" indian Reserve no. 9b, being a point on the northerly boundary of the east 1/2 Of legal subdivision 14, section 15, township 15, range 27, w6m; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the northerly, westerly And southerly boundaries of the east 1/2 of legal subdivision 14 to the Northwest corner of legal subdivision 10, section 15, township 15, range 27, w6m; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of legal subdivision 10, Section 15, to the southwest corner of legal subdivision 10; Thence easterly along the southerly boundary of legal subdivision 10 a Distance of approximately 170 metres to a point lying on the Southeasterly boundary of the watershed of stein river; Thence in a general southwesterly, westerly, northerly and easterly Direction along the southeasterly, southerly, westerly and northerly Boundary of the watershed of stein river, passing through the summits of Nikaia and skihist mountains, claimpost peak, antimony mountain, doss Peak, mount nielson, kwoiet and mehatl peaks, mount klackarpun, crevasse Crag, gott peak and siwhe and stein mountains, to a point on the Northerly boundary of the stein river watershed lying due west 1.0 Kilometre and south approximately 650 metres from the northwest corner Of "stryen" indian reserve no. 9; Thence due east to the westerly boundary of "stryen" indian reserve no.
9; Thence southeasterly, easterly and southerly along the westerly, Southerly and westerly boundaries of "stryen" indian reserve no. 9 to The northwest corner of "lytton" indian reserve no. 9b; Thence southerly along the westerly boundary of "lytton" indian reserve No. 9b to the southwest corner of "lytton" indian reserve no. 9b, being The point of commencement; Except district lot 1769.
The whole park containing approximately 107 191 hectares.
Stuart river park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Range 5, coast district and contained within the described boundaries as Shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1847; except (1) the land that is subject to millard road, A section 42 Transportation act Highway; and (2) district lot 10124.
The whole park containing approximately 20 948 hectares.
Sulphur passage park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in clayoquot district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 2 232 hectares (1 235 hectares of upland and 997 hectares of foreshore).
S
X
ˇ W
Ə
X
ˇ W
Nitk
W
Park
All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in similkameen division, Yale district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 2.6 hectares.
Tantalus park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster District, contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1978.
The whole park containing approximately 11 432 hectares.
Tatshenshini-alsek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1816.
The whole park containing approximately 947 026 hectares.
Taweel park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 Tube 1778; except mineral claim "lem 2" 334438.
The whole park containing approximately 4 393 hectares.
Tetrahedron park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in group 1, new westminster District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the 1 050 metre contour lying due west 1.75 Kilometres and due north approximately 550 metres from the tetra 1175 Survey control point on tetrahedron peak; Thence northeasterly on a bearing 56° a distance of approximately 1.05 Kilometres to a point on the 1 000 metre contour lying due west 900 Metres and due north approximately 1.15 kilometres from the survey Control point; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the 1 000 metre Contour to a point lying due west 500 metres and due north approximately 950 metres from the survey control point; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 98° a distance of 180 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 126° a distance of 180 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 75° a distance of 145 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 22° a distance of 120 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 67° a distance of 320 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 330° a distance of 335 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 291° a distance of 260 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 310° a distance of 495 metres; Thence due north a distance of 210 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 324° a distance of 266 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 345° a distance of 295 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 34° a distance of 264 metres; Thence due east a distance of 510 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 105° a distance of 200 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 75° a distance of 360 metres; Thence due north a distance of 175 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 323° a distance of 395 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 45° a distance of 120 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 64° a distance of 430 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 22° a distance of 465 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 102° a distance of 312 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 140° a distance of 270 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 120° a distance of 305 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 78° a distance of 237 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 25° a distance of 438 metres; Thence due north a distance of 366 metres; Thence due east a distance of 513 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 58° a distance of 320 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 15° a distance of 500 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 110° a distance of 630 metres; Thence due east a distance of 260 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 75° a distance of 530 metres; Thence due south a distance of 455 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 206° a distance of 190 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 230° a distance of 300 metres; Thence due south a distance of 330 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 154° a distance of 470 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 208° a distance of 170 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 232° a distance of 260 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 185° a distance of 310 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 160° a distance of 200 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 245° a distance of 950 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 280° a distance of 115 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 330° a distance of 440 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of 440 metres; Thence due north a distance of 115 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 286° a distance of 310 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 196° a distance of 226 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 238° a distance of approximately 678 metres to a point lying due west 1.56 kilometres and due south Approximately 700 metres from the fork survey control point, on a line Drawn parallel to and 10 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of an unnamed lake at the headwaters of the north shore of Rainy creek; Thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the line drawn parallel to And 10 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the Unnamed lake to a point lying due west 1.5 kilometres and due south Approximately 765 metres from fork survey control point; Thence due east a distance of 330 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 133° a distance of 227 metres; Thence due south a distance of approximately 812 metres to a point on The natural boundary of an unnamed creek, flowing southeasterly into the Right bank of rainy river and lying due east 2.04 kilometres and due North 1.4 kilometres from the tetra survey control point; Thence southeasterly along the natural boundary of the unnamed creek Crossing the junction with an unnamed creek, also flowing southeasterly, To a point lying due east 2.45 kilometres and due north approximately 960 metres from the tetra survey control point; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 111° a distance of 1.1 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 135° a distance of 280 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 163° a distance of 345 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 207° a distance of 340 metres; Thence due south a distance of 207 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 241° a distance of 513 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 259° a distance of 440 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 191° a distance of 155 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 147° a distance of 180 metres; Thence due south a distance of 195 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 131° a distance of 145 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 212° a distance of 145 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 264° a distance of 440 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 335° a distance of 114 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 248° a distance of 154 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 295° a distance of 493 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of 245 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 290° a distance of 180 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 274° a distance of 444 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 253° a distance of 470 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 225° a distance of 120 metres; Thence due south a distance of 225 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 152° a distance of 172 metres; Thence due south a distance of 286 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 125° a distance of 285 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 115° a distance of 285 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 150° a distance of 200 metres; Thence due south a distance of 461 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 143° a distance of 193 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 108° a distance of 224 metres; Thence due east a distance of approximately 570 metres to a point on the 900 metre contour lying due east 750 metres and due north approximately 800 metres from the idler survey control point; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along the 900 metre contour To a point lying due east 1.28 kilometres and due north approximately 340 metres from idler survey control point; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 162° a distance of 280 metres; Thence due east a distance of 290 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 74° a distance of 167 metres; Thence due south a distance of 225 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 142° a distance of 530 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 217° a distance of 340 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 294° a distance of 277 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 325° a distance of 293 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 264° a distance of 418 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 225° a distance of 237 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 192° a distance of 366 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 173° a distance of 371 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 255° a distance of 614 metres; Thence due south a distance of 496 metres; Thence due west a distance of 278 metres; Thence due north a distance of 440 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 303° a distance of 667 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 30° a distance of 288 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 307° a distance of 320 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 221° a distance of 230 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 239° a distance of 457 metres; Thence due west a distance of 200 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 321° a distance of 122 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 294° a distance of 195 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 340° a distance of 210 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 304° a distance of 677 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 250° a distance of 407 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 186° a distance of 594 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 205° a distance of 495 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 286° a distance of 348 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 325° a distance of 568 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 344° a distance of 300 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 285° a distance of 460 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 305° a distance of 1.18 kilometres; Thence due west a distance of 700 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 255° a distance of 265 metres; Thence due north a distance of 420 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 308° a distance of 640 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 261° a distance of 900 metres; Thence due north a distance of 260 metres; Thence due west a distance of 300 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 291° a distance of 580 metres; Thence southwesterly on a bearing of 244° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 300° a distance of 300 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 30° a distance of 400 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 330° a distance of 280 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 350° a distance of 500 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 354° a distance of 860 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 1°30' a distance of 380 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 17° a distance of 350 metres; Thence due east a distance of approximately 150 metres to a point lying 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural boundary Of gray creek; Thence in a general northeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 100 metres perpendicularly distant from the right bank natural Boundary of gray creek and the westerly shore natural boundary of an Unnamed lake to a point lying due west 4.0 kilometres and due north Approximately 1.0 kilometre from tetra 1175 survey control point; Thence due north a distance of 260 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 37° a distance of 160 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 57° a distance of 300 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 71° a distance of 380 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 95° a distance of 320 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 102° a distance of approximately 500 metres to a point on the 1 100 metre contour lying due west 2.63 Kilometres and due north approximately 1.5 kilometres from tetra 1175 Survey control point; Thence southeasterly along the 1 100 metre contour to a point lying due West 1.93 kilometres and due north approximately 800 metres from tetra 1175 survey control point; Thence due south a distance of 353 metres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 56° a distance of approximately 220 Metres to the point of commencement.
The whole park containing approximately 6 000 hectares.
Titetown park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2006.
The whole park containing approximately 1 070 hectares.
Toad river hot springs park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in peace river district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1782.
The whole park containing approximately 423 hectares.
Todagin south slope park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1869.
The whole park containing approximately 3 557 hectares.
Trepanier park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and osoyoos division, yale district and contained within the Described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1892; except (1) a 30 metre Right of way centred on ministry of forests' trepanier creek road no.
0941-01; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on forest resource road (bear fsr connector) accessing cutting permit 1, timber sale a186671 From ministry of forests' bear road no. 7720-01; (3) mineral claim "pt 2" 374908; and (4) mineral claim "pt 1" 374907.
The whole park containing approximately 2 884 hectares.
Tsintsunko lakes park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 Tube 1783.
The whole park containing approximately 353 hectares.
Tunkwa park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 Tube 1878; except (1) block a, ls13, section 9, township 19, range 21, w6m; (2) block a, ls1, section 17, township 19, range 21, w6m; (3) Blocks c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t and w of Section 9, township 19, range 21, w6m; (4) blocks a, b, c, d, e and f of Section 15, township 19, range 21, w6m; (5) blocks g and h of sections 15 and 16, township 19, range 21, w6m; (6) blocks i, j and l of section 16, township 19, range 21, w6m; (7) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road 4100; (8) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests' road 4240; (9) pipeline right of way as shown on The official plans deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 Tube 883 and plan 5 tube 473, and in land and water british Columbia inc.'s files as rw 024649 and rw 0208767; and (10) an Additional right of way of 15 metres wide adjoining the easterly side of Rw 0274649 shown on plan 8 tube 883 deposited in the crown land Registry.
The whole park containing approximately 5 138 hectares.
Uncha mountain red hills park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 7 tube 1912.
The whole park containing approximately 9 421 hectares (9 044 hectares of upland and 377 hectares of foreshore).
Upper violet creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1877; except (1) a 30 metre right of way for fsr 4609-01, Larch hills, 3.5 metres from the road centreline on the creek side of The road to 26.5 metres from the road centreline on the uphill side of The road based on the road centreline; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on fsr 4609-02, larch hills-east canoe; (3) a 30 metre right of Way centred on fsr 4609-04, larch hills-rosemond; and (4) woodlot Licence w1572.
The whole park containing approximately 123 hectares.
Walhachin oxbows park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at the point of intersection with the easterly boundary of District lot 2457, being "skeetchestin" indian reserve and the left bank Natural boundary of the main channel of the thompson river; Thence due north to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 15 metres Perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural boundary of the Thompson river; Thence in a general southeasterly direction along a line drawn parallel To and 15 metres perpendicularly distant from the left bank natural Boundary of thompson river to a point lying due east of the intersection Of the northerly boundary of canadian pacific railway right of way, plan A786, and the natural boundary of the thompson river; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of canadian pacific railway Right of way, plan a786, to the intersection with the natural boundary Of the thompson river; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of canadian pacific railway Right of way, plan a786, to the intersection with the natural boundary Of a backwater (oxbow) of the thompson river; Thence due north to a point on a line drawn parallel to and 15 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of a backwater (oxbow) Of the thompson river; Thence in an easterly and northerly direction along a line drawn Parallel to and 15 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of the backwater (oxbow) of the thompson river to a point lying Due south of the southerly prolongation of the easterly boundary of District lot 2457, being "skeetchestin" indian reserve; Thence northerly along the prolongation and the easterly boundary of District lot 2457 to the point of intersection with the left bank Natural boundary of the main channel of thompson river, being the point Of commencement; Except canadian national railway right of way, plan a261.
The whole park containing approximately 37 hectares (35 hectares of upland and 2 hectares of foreshore).
Wap creek park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1990.
The whole park containing approximately 328 hectares (314 hectares of upland and 14 hectares of foreshore).
Wells gray park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District, lillooet district and cariboo district and contained within The described boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the Crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2004; except (1) clearwater Valley road as shown on the official plans deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 2 tube 1562, plan 4 tube 1432, plan 10 Tube 1529, plan 11 tube 1529, plan 12 tube 1529, plan 12 Tube 1533, plan 13 tube 1533, plan 16 tube 1537 and plan 17 tube 1537, on plan 40616, on deposit in the kamloops land title Office, and on road survey no. 5709, on file with ministry of Transportation and infrastructure in kamloops; (2) helmcken falls road As shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 9 tube 1529; and (3) 1.845 hectares described as wgpp on Ministry of transportation's (file #2021, project 21924) drawing R2-600-101-rw.
The whole park containing approximately 541 516 hectares.
White lake park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in kamloops division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 Tube 1877; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry Of forests' pari creek road no. 9701-00; and (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of forests' bastion-white lake road no. 5653-04.
The whole park containing approximately 266 hectares (204 hectares of upland and 62 hectares of foreshore).
White pelican park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cariboo district and Contained within the following described boundaries:
Commencing at a point on the northwesterly shore natural boundary of Beaver lake lying due south of the southeast corner of district lot 7249, being "anahim" indian reserve no. 13; Thence southwesterly along the natural boundary of beaver lake to a Point lying due east from the northeast corner of district lot 7248; Thence due west to the northeast corner of district lot 7248; Thence westerly along the northerly boundary of district lot 7248 to the Northwest corner of district lot 7248; Thence due west a distance 600 metres; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 301° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 322° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 338° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northwesterly on a bearing of 347° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 4° a distance of 1.3 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 26° a distance of 1.2 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 37° a distance of 1.7 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 50° a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 75° a distance of 1.0 kilometre; Thence northeasterly on a bearing of 85° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 105° a distance of 800 metres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 137° a distance of 600 metres; Thence due south a distance of 1.5 kilometres; Thence southeasterly on a bearing of 166° a distance of 2.7 kilometres; Thence due south a distance of 1.3 kilometres; Thence southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the natural Boundary of beaver lake lying due south of the southeast corner of District lot 7249, being the point of commencement; Except (1) district lot 7249, "anahim" indian reserve no. 13; (2) District lot 7251, "anahim" indian reserve no. 14; and (3) district lot 10216, "anahim" indian reserve no. 15.
The whole park containing approximately 2 762.8 hectares.
White ridge park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in nootka district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2012.
The whole park containing approximately 1 386 hectares.
Wrinkly face park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in osoyoos division, yale District and contained within the described boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 Tube 1877; except ministry of forests' cutting permit a 54185 cb1.
The whole park containing approximately 43 hectares.
Yalakom park All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1995.
The whole park containing approximately 8 941 hectares.
Schedule e Alty conservancy Banks nii łuutiksm conservancy Bear island conservancy Bella coola estuary conservancy Bishop bay – monkey beach conservancy Broughton archipelago conservancy Burdwood group conservancy Burnt bridge creek conservancy Callaghan conservancy Calvert island conservancy Cascade-sutslem conservancy Catto creek conservancy Clayton falls conservancy Codville lagoon conservancy Crab lake conservancy Cranstown point conservancy Daawuuxusda conservancy Damaxyaa conservancy Dean river conservancy Duu guusd conservancy Dzawadi/klinaklini estuary conservancy Ecstall headwaters conservancy Ecstall-sparkling conservancy Ecstall-spoksuut conservancy Ellerslie-roscoe conservancy Emily lake conservancy Esté-tiwilh/sigurd creek conservancy Ethelda bay – tennant island conservancy Europa lake conservancy Fiordland conservancy Forward harbour/ƛǝ Xˇ
Ǝ
W
Ǝyǝm conservancy Gitxaała nii łuutiksm/kitkatla conservancy Golden gate/ X
Áat yádi aani conservancy Gunboat harbour conservancy Hanna-tintina conservancy Hakai lúxvbálís conservancy Hǝnʎǝmd
Z
I mǝkola/yorke island conservancy Hotsprings-no name creek conservancy Huchsduwachsdu nuyem jees/kitlope heritage conservancy Hunwadi/ahnuhati – bald conservancy I7loqaw7/100 lakes plateau conservancy Indian lake – hitchcock creek/át chi'îni shà conservancy Jump across conservancy Kamdis conservancy K'distsausk/turtle point conservancy Kennedy island conservancy Khtada lake conservancy Khutzeymateen inlet conservancy Khyex conservancy Kilbella estuary conservancy Kimsquit estuary conservancy Kitasoo spirit bear conservancy Klewnuggit conservancy K'lgaan/klekane conservancy K'mooda/lowe-gamble conservancy K'nabiyaaxl/ashdown conservancy Koeye conservancy K'ootz/khutze conservancy Ksgaxl/stephens island conservancy Ksi x'anmaas conservancy Ksi xts'at'kw/stagoo conservancy Ktisgaidz/macdonald bay conservancy Kts'mkta'ani/union lake conservancy Kun
X
Alas conservancy K
'uuna gwaay conservancy Kwatna estuary conservancy K'zuzált/twin two conservancy Lady douglas – don peninsula conservancy Larcom lagoon conservancy Lax ka'gaas/campania conservancy Lax kul nii łuutiksm/bonilla conservancy Lax kwaxl/dundas and melville islands conservancy Lax kwil dziidz/fin conservancy Lockhart – gordon conservancy Long island conservancy Lucy islands conservancy Machmell conservancy Mahpahkum-ahkwuna/deserters-walker conservancy Maxtaktsm'aa/union passage conservancy Mkwal'ts conservancy Moksgm'ol/chapple – cornwall conservancy Monarch mountain/a xéegi deiyi conservancy Monckton nii łuutiksm conservancy Mount minto/k'iyán conservancy Nakina – inklin rivers/yáwu yaa conservancy Namu conservancy Nang xaldangaas conservancy Ne'āh' conservancy Nlháxten/cerise creek conservancy Nooseseck conservancy North spit conservancy Outer central coast islands conservancy Owikeno conservancy Pa-aat conservancy Penrose – ripon conservancy Phillips estuary/ɂnacinux W
Conservancy
Polkinghorne islands conservancy Pooley conservancy Port arthur conservancy Q'altanaas/aaltanhash conservancy Qudǝs/gillard-jimmy judd island conservancy Qwalímak/upper birkenhead conservancy Qwiquallaaq/boat bay conservancy Rescue bay conservancy Restoration bay conservancy Sanctuary bay conservancy Sand point conservancy S
G̱
Aay taw siiwaay k'adjuu conservancy Shearwater hot springs conservancy Sheemahant conservancy Simpson lake east conservancy Skeena bank conservancy Smithers island conservancy Stair creek conservancy Taku river/t'a K
Ú téi X
' conservancy Thorsen creek conservancy Thulme falls conservancy Tsa-latĺ/smokehouse conservancy Tutshi lake/t'ooch' áayi conservancy Ug
W
Iwa'/cape caution conservancy Upper elaho valley conservancy Upper kimsquit river conservancy Upper rogers kóḻii7 conservancy Upper soo conservancy Wahkash point conservancy Wakeman estuary conservancy Wales harbour conservancy Ẁaẁley/seymour estuary conservancy Wilkinson-wright bay conservancy Winter inlet conservancy Woodworth lake conservancy X
W
Aḱ
W
Ǝɂnaxdǝɂma/stafford estuary conservancy Yaaguun
G
Andlaay conservancy Yaaguun suu conservancy Zumtela bay conservancy Alty conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1971.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 8 463 hectares.
Banks nii łuutiksm conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1963; Except (1) district lot 2043, range 4, coast district; and (2) that part Lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 19 121 hectares (15 585 hectares of upland and 3 536 hectares of Foreshore).
Bear island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 317 hectares (186 hectares of upland and 131 hectares of foreshore).
Bella coola estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1975.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 269 hectares (138 hectares of upland and 131 hectares of foreshore).
Bishop bay – monkey beach conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1972; Except (1) timber harvesting areas a77633, block a and 77634, block a, Monkey beach development; and (2) that part lying beyond a line drawn Parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 374 hectares (2 832 hectares of upland and 542 hectares of foreshore).
Broughton archipelago conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1967; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road fsr 8387; and (2) that part below the natural boundary of the Sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 4 111 hectares.
Burdwood group conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1967; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 121 hectares.
Burnt bridge creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1967; Except (1) the right of way of highway 20; and (2) ministry of Transportation quarry reserve/notations identified in integrated land Management bureau, ministry of agriculture and lands files 0325778 and 0337728.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 691 hectares.
Callaghan conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1987.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 8 081 hectares.
Calvert island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2 and range 3, Coast district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 Tube 1963; except (1) district lot 715, range 2, coast district; (2) district lot 871, range 2, coast district; (3) district lot 875, Range 2, coast district; (4) block a, district lot 1036, range 2, coast District; and (5) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 18 558 hectares.
Cascade-sutslem conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1967; Except (1) "skowquiltz river" indian reserve no. 3, district lot 1376; (2) "elcho" indian reserve no. 6; (3) district lot 1361, sir alexander Mackenzie park; and (4) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 121 482 hectares.
Catto creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1967.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 7 249 hectares.
Clayton falls conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1967; Except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Road fsr 9029-01.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 5 047 hectares.
Codville lagoon conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1970.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 218 hectares.
Crab lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1963.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 12 789 hectares.
Cranstown point conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1967; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 95 hectares.
Daawuuxusda conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1994; Except a 30 metre right of way centred on the ministry of forests and Range permit road r06086-174.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 116 275 hectares (70 490 hectares of upland and 45 785 hectares of foreshore).
Damaxyaa conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1994; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range permit road, r06206-201, copper bay main; (2) tree farm licence 58, timber licence t0024, cutting permit 250, blocks sand30 and sand31; (3) mineral claim "sandspit" 559788; (4) mineral claim "sani west" 572163; and (5) mineral claim "sani 5" 572188.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 829 hectares (822 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Dean river conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 56 096 hectares.
Duu guusd conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2007; Except (1) commercial lease v899472, district lot 3090, covering Foreshore, being the bed of henslung bay, containing approximately 2.33 hectares, on Land act File 0104419 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte; (2) commercial recreation lease 240935, District lot 3073, containing approximately 0.39 hectares, on Land act File 6405327 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte; (3) commercial lease v900086, district lot 3070, containing approximately 0.4 hectares, on Land act File 6402891 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte; and (4) commercial lease 240940, covering Foreshore as shown on the legal description schedule of the lease, Containing approximately 2 hectares, on Land act File 6402150 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 229 107 hectares (144 934 hectares of upland and 84 173 hectares of foreshore).
Dzawadi/klinaklini estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 808 hectares (259 hectares of upland and 549 hectares of foreshore).
Ecstall headwaters conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1973.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 13 109 hectares.
Ecstall-sparkling conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1971.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 40 577 hectares.
Ecstall-spoksuut conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1971.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 10 110 hectares (9 697 hectares of upland and 413 hectares of foreshore).
Ellerslie-roscoe conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1967; Except (1) "clatse" indian reserve no. 5; (2) "hoonees" indian reserve No. 2; (3) "noota" indian reserve no. 3; (4) "quartcha" indian reserve No. 3; (5) a 30 metre right of way centred on the ocean falls-shack bay Road; and (6) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 50 137 hectares.
Emily lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1967; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 230 hectares.
Esté-tiwilh/sigurd creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in new westminster district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1988.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 112 hectares.
Ethelda bay – tennant island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1971; Except that part lying below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 61 hectares.
Europa lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1971.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 8 940 hectares.
Fiordland conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1963; Except district lot 1372, range 3, coast district, "oatswish" indian Reserve no. 13.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 84 417 hectares (76 825 hectares of upland and 7 592 hectares of Foreshore).
Forward harbour/ƛə X
ˇ Ə
W
Əyəm conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1968; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 306 hectares.
Gitxaała nii łuutiksm/kitkatla conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And range 5, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 12 tube 1975; except (1) dolphin island, indian Reserve no. 1; (2) "grassy islet" indian reserve no. 2; (3) "sand Island" indian reserve no. 4; (4) the marine foreshore 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of dolphin island, Grassy islet and sand island; (5) the land that is the subject of the Crown granted mineral claims, district lots 6514, 6519, 7188 and 7312; (6) that part of sub-area b lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea; And (7) that part of sub-area c below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 29 539 hectares (13 821 hectares of upland and 15 718 hectares of Foreshore).
Golden gate/ X
Áat yádi aani conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 2007; except Mineral claim 828322.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 5 981 hectares.
Gunboat harbour conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1971; Except (1) crown granted mineral claim district lot 2967; and (2) that Part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 29 hectares.
Hənʎəmd
Z
I məkola/yorke island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1970; Except (1) the reserve established under the Land act In favour of canada at fanny island and identified in integrated land Management bureau, ministry of agriculture and lands file 1403072; and (2) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 39 hectares.
Hakai lúxvbálís conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1901; Except (1) "yellertlee" indian reserve no. 12; (2) "werkinellek" indian Reserve no. 11; (3) mineral claim "wh7052" 253525; (4) mineral claim "wh7054" 254284; and (5) mineral claim "wh7052" 254285.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 121 051 hectares (51 914 hectares of upland and 69 137 hectares of foreshore).
Hanna—tintina conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2011; except (1) the highway 37 right of way as shown on the official plans deposited In the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1742, plan 15 Tube 1985 and plan 5 tube 1081, and that portion of highway 37 Located south and east of the portion shown on that plan 15 Tube 1985; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on fsr r03781, Tintina main; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on fsr r03781, pine Flats; (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on fsr 10255, meziadin; (5) All roads that access the legal subdivision as shown on land title Office plan prp7577 and plan bcp 5432; (6) the former disposal site Accessed through dl 2450a assigned 'b' as shown on the sketch dated October 2012 on file at bc parks, victoria; and (7) those portions of Mineral claim 880129, mineral claim 880209, mineral claim 880309, Mineral claim 889550 and mineral claim 889551 lying outside the boundary Of the mineral reserve established under b.c. reg. 61/2009 as Hanna-tintina watershed and by reference to site number 1003602.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 23 702 hectares.
Hotsprings – no name creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1970; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 22 752 hectares.
Huchsduwachsdu nuyem jees/kitlope heritage conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And range 4, coast district and contained within the described Boundaries as shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land Registry as plan 11 tube 1900; except (1) "wekellals" indian Reserve no. 15; (2) "kitlope" indian reserve no. 16; (3) mineral claim "goldmine 1" 325961; (4) mineral claim "goldmine 4" 326032; (5) mineral Claim "xk1012" 253947; (6) mineral claim "xk1014" 253948; and (7) Mineral claim "xk1212" 241411.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 322 020 hectares (321 572 hectares of upland and 448 hectares of foreshore).
Hunwadi/ahnuhati – bald conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1 and range 2, Coast district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 Tube 1976; except (1) district lot 1527, range 1, coast district, "ahnuhati" indian reserve no. 6; and (2) the land that was subject to Timber licences tl7848p and tl6465p; (3) "ahta" indian reserve no. 3; And (4) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 55 423 hectares.
I7loqaw7/100 lakes plateau conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1992.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 030 hectares.
Indian lake – hitchcock creek/át ch'îni shà conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2009.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 60 619 hectares.
Jump across conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1968; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 37 444 hectares.
Kamdis conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2004; Except (1) a 20 metre right of way centred on the non-status road Accessing lot 1, district lot 792, queen charlotte district, plan 2034 And lot 2, district lot 792, queen charlotte district, plan 2034; (2) That part of district lot 1825, licence of occupation 635679, containing Approximately 0.06 hectares, on Land act File 6406761 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte; and (3) that part of district lot 1825, Transportation inclusion roadway 634910, containing approximately 0.236 hectares, on Land act File 6406072 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, queen charlotte.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 722 hectares (1 896 hectares of upland and 826 hectares of foreshore).
K'distsausk/turtle point conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1973; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 142 hectares (106 hectares of upland and 36 hectares of foreshore).
Kennedy island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1971; Except (1) district lot 6415; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests and range road fsr 9666-01; (3) cut blocks 1, 2 and 3 of timber sale licence a81676; and (4) that part lying beyond a line Drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 4 970 hectares (4 382 hectares of upland and 588 hectares of foreshore).
Khtada lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1972.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 13 638 hectares.
Khutzeymateen inlet conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1972.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 12 947 hectares (10 366 hectares of upland and 2 581 hectares of Foreshore).
Khyex conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1972; Except (1) "ksagwisgwas" indian reserve no. 62, district lot 3977; (2) "ksagwisgwas" indian reserve no. 63, district lot 3930; and (3) "kyex" Indian reserve no. 64, district lot 3928.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 41 404 hectares.
Kilbella estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 376 hectares (206 hectares of upland and 170 hectares of foreshore).
Kimsquit estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 126 hectares (96 hectares of upland and 30 hectares of foreshore).
Kitasoo spirit bear conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3 and range 4, Coast district and contained within the boundaries as shown on the Official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 Tube 1963; except (1) district lot 1357, range 3, coast district, "quckwa" indian reserve no. 7; (2) district lot 1358, range 3, coast District, "goo-ewe" indian reserve no. 8; (3) district lot 1722, range 3, coast district; (4) district lot 1362, range 4, coast district, "kinmakanksk" indian reserve no. 6; (5) district lot 1363, range 4, Coast district, "dil-ma-sow" indian reserve no. 5; (6) district lot 1365, range 4, coast district, "saint joe" indian reserve no. 10; (7) District lot 1366, range 4, coast district, "ulthakoush" indian reserve No. 11; (8) district lot 1367, range 4, coast district, "lattkaloup" Indian reserve no. 9; (9) "canoona" indian reserve no. 2; and (10) that Part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 102 875 hectares.
Klewnuggit conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1971.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 6 785 hectares.
K'lgaan/klekane conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1965; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 18 272 hectares.
K'mooda/lowe-gamble conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1964.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 14 454 hectares.
K'nabiyaaxl/ashdown conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1963; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 727 hectares (454 hectares of upland and 273 hectares of foreshore).
Koeye conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1964; Except (1) district lot 2, range 2, coast district; (2) district lot 1329, range 2, coast district; (3) district lot 1330, range 2, coast District; (4) district lot 1336, range 2, coast district; (5) a 30 metre Right of way centred on ministry of forests' road permit ro3588, road Sections coldmain, osbornemn and nootummain; and (6) that part below the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 18 752 hectares.
K'ootz/khutze conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1963; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 34 168 hectares.
Ksgaxl/stephens island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1973; Except (1) "rushton island" indian reserve no. 90, district lot 3915; (2) "squaderee" indian reserve no. 91, district lot 3914; (3) "avery Island" indian reserve no. 92, district lot 3917; (4) "edye" indian Reserve no. 93, district lot 3916; (5) district lot 6412; and (6) that Part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 14 018 hectares (9 446 hectares of upland and 4 572 hectares of Foreshore).
Ksi x'anmaas conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1972; Except (1) "knames" indian reserve no. 45, district lot 3970; (2) "knames" indian reserve no. 46, district lot 3971; and (3) that part Lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 33 581 hectares (33 382 hectares of upland and 199 hectares of Foreshore).
Ksi xts'at'kw/stagoo conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1964.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 11 647 hectares (11 522 hectares of upland and 125 hectares of Foreshore).
Ktisgaidz/macdonald bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1972; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 482 hectares (419 hectares of upland and 63 hectares of foreshore).
Kts'mkta'ani/union lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1972; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 6 338 hectares (6 331 hectares of upland and 7 hectares of foreshore).
Kun
X
Alas conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 2004; Except (1) "cumshewas" indian reserve no. 7; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on the ministry of forests and range permit roads r06206-294 and 334 from the westerly boundary of the conservancy to district lot 167; And (3) mineral claim 645847.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 15 718 hectares (3 360 hectares of upland and 12 358 hectares of Foreshore).
K
'uuna gwaay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 2005; Except (1) "skedance" indian reserve no. 8; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on the ministry of forests and range permit road r13328-1, south Main; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on the ministry of forests and Range permit road r13328-2, louise main; and (4) district lot 2786.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 15 259 hectares (2 104 hectares of upland and 13 155 hectares of Foreshore).
Kwatna estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 330 hectares (257 hectares of upland and 73 hectares of foreshore).
K'zuzált/twin two conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1988; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Road in-shuck-ch, fsr 7343; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on The non-status road situated adjacent to utm north 5565000m east 537200m.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 095 hectares (2 089 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
Lady douglas – don peninsula conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1968; Except (1) "tankeah" indian reserve no. 5; (2) a 30 metre right of way Centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 8994-01; (3) the log Dump and sort area shown on integrated land management bureau, ministry Of agriculture and lands file 998406; and (4) that part below the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 11 190 hectares.
Larcom lagoon conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1972.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 311 hectares (220 hectares of upland and 91 hectares of foreshore).
Lax ka'gaas/campania conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1963; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 20 504 hectares (17 075 hectares of upland and 3 429 hectares of Foreshore).
Lax kul nii łuutiksm/bonilla conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1963; Except (1) "kul" indian reserve no. 18; (2) district lot 2536, range 4, Coast district; and (3) that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to And 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the Sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 584 hectares (741 hectares of upland and 843 hectares of foreshore).
Lax kwaxl/dundas and melville islands conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1971; Except (1) "prince leboo island" indian reserve no. 32, district lot 3918; (2) "zayas island" indian reserve no. 32a, district lots 3926, 3959 and 3960; (3) "dundas island" indian reserve no. 32b, district lots 3919, 3923, 3924, 3925, 3927, 3961, 3962, 3972 and 3973; (4) "channel Islands" indian reserve no. 33, district lots 3921 and 3922; (5) "far West point" indian reserve no. 34, district lot 3920; and (6) that part Lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly Distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 33 082 hectares (23 482 hectares of upland and 9 600 hectares of Foreshore).
Lax kwil dziidz/fin conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1963; Except (1) district lot 2575, "lachkul-jeets" indian reserve, no. 6; and (2) that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 902 hectares (1 234 hectares of upland and 668 hectares of foreshore).
Lockhart – gordon conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1969; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 24 501 hectares.
Long island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 850 hectares (447 hectares of upland and 403 hectares of foreshore).
Lucy islands conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2022.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 338 hectares (31 hectares of upland and 307 hectares of foreshore).
Machmell conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1968; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road fsr 7588; (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests and range road fsr 8326; (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests and range road permit ro 6075; (4) a 30 metre right Of way centred on ministry of forests and range road permit ro 6375; (5) The land in district lot 397 that is subject to the licence of Occupation described on integrated land management bureau, ministry of Agriculture and lands file 5405687; and (6) the land developed as an Airstrip that lies parallel to the ministry of forests and range road Fsr 7588.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 814 hectares (1 735 hectares of upland and 79 hectares of foreshore).
Mahpahkum-ahkwuna/deserters-walker conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 2005; Except (1) mahpahkum indian reserve 4; and (2) licence of occupation 109973, containing approximately 0.27 hectares, on Land act File 141270 at the ministry of forests, lands and natural resource Operations, nanaimo.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 7 369 hectares (931 hectares of upland and 6 438 hectares of foreshore).
Maxtaktsm'aa/union passage conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1973; Except (1) "tsimtack" indian reserve no. 7; (2) a 30 metre road centred On tack mainline and branch roads 110 and 130, forest licence a16841; (3) a 30 metre road centred on moore mainline, forest licence a16841; (4) cutting permits, road permit, and silvicultural prescriptions or Plans for cutblocks 26215, 26258, 26148, h26142, 26154, h26139, h26136, H26263, h26112, 26166, 26109, 26103, forest licence a16841; and (5) that Part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 519 hectares (1 825 hectares of upland and 694 hectares of foreshore).
Mkwal'ts conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1980; except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Road fsr 7979-01; and (2) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of Forests and range permit road r08887, section sm-ml.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 874 hectares.
Moksgm'ol/chapple – cornwall conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3 and range 4, Coast district and contained within the described boundaries as shown on The official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 Tube 1963; except (1) district lot 1195, range 3, coast district, "lackzuswadda" indian reserve no. 9; (2) district lot 2230, range 4, Coast district, "kahas" indian reserve no. 7; (3) district lot 2574, Range 4, coast district, "kayel" indian reserve no. 8; (4) a 60 metre Right-of-way centred on the existing road, shown in red on the official Plan, accessing district lot 3212 and district lot 3213 from whale Channel; (5) district lot 3212, range 4, coast district; (6) district Lot 3213, range 4, coast district; and (7) that part below the natural Boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 29 116 hectares.
Monarch mountain/a xéegi deiyi conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 2009; except Mineral claim 389658.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 424 hectares.
Monckton nii łuutiksm conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1964; Except (1) "toowartz" indian reserve no. 8; and (2) that part lying Beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant From the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 24 775 hectares (22 251 hectares of upland and 2 524 hectares of Foreshore).
Mount minto/k'iyán conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2007.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 5 657 hectares.
Nakina – inklin rivers/yáwu yaa conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 2005; except Taku indian reserve 6, district lot 5476.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 167 259 hectares.
Namu conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1969; Except (1) mineral claim "hvidsten1" 400123; and (2) a 30 metre right of Way centred on ministry of forests and range road draney mainline fsr 10502; and (3) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 10 312 hectares.
Nang xaldangaas conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2005; Except (1) yan indian reserve 7; (2) meagwan indian reserve 8; and (3) Saouchten indian reserve 18, district lot 174.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 16 695 hectares (6 897 hectares of upland and 9 798 hectares of Foreshore).
Ne'āh' conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2011; except (1) horse ranch pass indian reserve 4, dl 5466; and (2) mosquito creek Indian reserve 5, dl 5469.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 233 304 hectares.
Nlháxten/cerise creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1987.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 272 hectares.
Nooseseck conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1969.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 603 hectares.
North spit conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 19 hectares (10 hectares of upland and 9 hectares of foreshore).
Outer central coast islands conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1969; Except (1) "koqui" indian reserve no. 6; and (2) that part below the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 14 839 hectares.
Owikeno conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1969; Except (1) "katit" indian reserve no. 1; (2) district lot 162; and (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range road fsr 6489.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 70 569 hectares.
Pa-aat conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1972; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 4 768 hectares.
Penrose-ripon conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1970; Except (1) "cockmi" indian reserve no. 3; (2) district lot 1583; (3) Kvamus forest licence a65223, cutting permit 4, cutblock rip 3, cutting Permit 6, cutblock 5, cutting permit 7, cutblock 4 and cutting permit 8, Cutblock rip1; (4) forest licence a16850; and (5) that part below the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 229 hectares.
Phillips estuary/ɂnacinux W
Conservancy
All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1969; Except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Road permit ro 2049, tree farm licence 45.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 461 hectares (1 382 hectares of upland and 79 hectares of foreshore).
Polkinghorne islands conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1969; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 154 hectares.
Pooley conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1964; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 269 hectares.
Port arthur conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 342 hectares (294 hectares of upland and 48 hectares of foreshore).
Q'altanaas/aaltanhash conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1964; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 18 767 hectares.
Qudəs/gillard-jimmy judd island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 1968; Except (1) district lot 1748; and (2) that part below the natural Boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 45 hectares.
Qwalímak/upper birkenhead conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1988; except (1) mineral claim "gk north 4" 517504; (2) mineral claim "gk north 3" 517476; (3) mineral claim "gk north 1" 517468; (4) mineral claim "gold King six" 509091; (5) mineral claim "gold king four" 509089; and (6) Mineral claim "gold king eight" 509093.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 4 888 hectares.
Qwiquallaaq/boat bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1967; Except a 30 metre right of way centred on road a as shown and identified On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 Tube 1967.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 375 hectares (639 hectares of upland and 736 hectares of foreshore).
Rescue bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1969; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 221 hectares.
Restoration bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1969; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 826 hectares.
Sanctuary bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1985; except (1) mineral claim "babine 9" 543117; (2) mineral claim "babine 10" 543118; and (3) mineral claim "babine 16" 543124.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 820 hectares (380 hectares of upland and 440 hectares of foreshore).
Sand point conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 11 hectares (5 hectares of upland and 6 hectares of foreshore).
S
G
Aay taw siiwaay k'adjuu conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1994.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 597 hectares.
Shearwater hot springs conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1972; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 33 hectares (18 hectares of upland and 15 hectares of foreshore).
Sheemahant conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 2012.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 015 hectares (812 hectares of upland and 203 hectares of foreshore).
Simpson lake east conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1972.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 54 hectares (22 hectares of upland and 32 hectares of foreshore).
Skeena bank conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1972.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 594 hectares (51 hectares of upland and 2 543 hectares of foreshore).
Smithers island conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1968; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 56 hectares.
Stair creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1973; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 932 hectares (861 hectares of upland and 71 hectares of foreshore).
Taku river/t'a K
Ú téi X
' conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 2004; except (1) mineral claim 502815; (2) mineral claim 513821; (3) mineral claim 532180; and (4) that portion of mineral claim 846867 lying outside the Boundary of the mineral reserve established as site number 1005143 under B.c. reg. 280/2007.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 80 465 hectares.
Thorsen creek conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2025.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 8 490 hectares.
Thulme falls conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1973; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on the non-status road known As old thulme main; and (2) that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel To and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of The sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 64 hectares (53 hectares of upland and 11 hectares of foreshore).
Tsa-latĺ/smokehouse conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1964; Except (1) district lot 734, range 2, coast district, "halowis" indian Reserve no. 5; and (2) mineral claim "triangle" 513763.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 37 886 hectares.
Tutshi lake/t'ooch' áayi conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 2009; except (1) mineral claim 941309; and (2) that portion of mineral claim 941287 Lying outside the boundary of the mineral reserve established as site Number 1005122 under b.c. reg. 280/2007.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 19 640 hectares.
Ug
W
Iwa'/cape caution conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 2008; Except (1) nathlegalis indian reserve 3, district lots 726, 727, 728, 729, 730 and 731; (2) saagoombahlah indian reserve 6; (3) khazisela Indian reserve 7; (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on fsr 10335 (mb2000), greaves island; and (5) all those islands and islets and ann Island indian reserve 7 within area a, as area a is shown and identified On the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 Tube 2008.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 25 685 hectares (10 241 hectares of upland and 15 444 hectares of Foreshore).
Upper elaho valley conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1988.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 10 253 hectares.
Upper kimsquit river conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 15 tube 1969.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 10 588 hectares.
Upper rogers kóḻii7 conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and New westminster district and contained within the described boundaries As shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 4 tube 1988; except (1) mineral claim "coben50" 563209; (2) Mineral claim "sonny mo 9" 562044; (3) mineral claim "sonny mo 11" 562046; (4) mineral claim "coben53" 563212; (5) mineral claim "coben20" 562868; (6) mineral claim "coben18" 562866; (7) mineral claim "coben45" 563204; and (8) mineral claim "coben48" 563207.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 605 hectares.
Upper soo conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in lillooet district and New westminster district and contained within the described boundaries As shown on the official plan deposited in the crown land registry as Plan 5 tube 1990; except (1) mineral claim 512764; (2) forest Licence a19217 cutblock 90; and (3) a 30 metre right of way centred on Ministry of forests and range permit road br 90-3, forest licence A19217.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 11 306 hectares.
Wahkash point conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 2 tube 1970; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 189 hectares.
Wakeman estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1970.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 304 hectares (179 hectares of upland and 125 hectares of foreshore).
Wales harbour conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1973; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 666 hectares (345 hectares of upland and 321 hectares of foreshore).
Ẁaẁley/seymour estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 1969; Except the land subject to the ministry of forests and range special use Permit s22747.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 326 hectares (289 hectares of upland and 37 hectares of foreshore).
Wilkinson-wright bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1985.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 664 hectares (900 hectares of upland and 764 hectares of foreshore).
Winter inlet conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1973; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 30 hectares (11 hectares of upland and 19 hectares of foreshore).
Woodworth lake conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1973.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 4 436 hectares.
X
W
Aḱ
W
Əɂnaxdəɂma/stafford estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1969; Except (1) a 100 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road permit ro 4507, tree farm licence 25; and (2) mineral claim "never sweat" 520822.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 742 hectares (538 hectares of upland and 204 hectares of foreshore).
Yaaguun
G
Andlaay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 4 tube 2005; Except (1) a 30 metre road right of way centred on the ministry of Forests and range permit road r13350-35, port road (part 2); (2) a 30 Metre road right of way centred on the ministry of forests and range Permit road r13350-40, east yak main; (3) a 30 metre road right of way Centred on the ministry of forests and range permit roads r13350-107 and 108, yakoun main; (4) a 30 metre right of way centred on the Forest act Permit road r13350-395 to junction with the Forest act Permit road r13350-402 at utm zone 8 north 5941190 metres+/− east 683083 Metres+/−; (5) a 30 metre right of way centred on the Forest act Permit road r13350-402 between utm zone 8 north 5941190 metres+/− east 683083 metres+/− and utm zone 8 north 5940700 metres+/− east 683645 Metres+/−; and (6) a 30 metre right of way centred on Forest act Permit road r13350-403.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 689 hectares (2 457 hectares of upland and 232 hectares of foreshore).
Yaaguun suu conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1990.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 7 970 hectares.
Zumtela bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1973.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 49 hectares (18 hectares of upland and 31 hectares of foreshore).
Schedule f Bishop bay – monkey beach corridor conservancy Carter bay conservancy Cetan/thurston bay conservancy Clyak estuary conservancy Dean river corridor conservancy Dzawadi/upper klinaklini river conservancy Goat cove conservancy Goose bay conservancy Khutzeymateen inlet west conservancy Kt'ii/racey conservancy K'waal conservancy Manzanita cove conservancy Nakina – inklin rivers (kuthai area)/yáwu yaa conservancy Namu corridor conservancy Neğiƛ/nekite estuary conservancy Pałǝmin/estero basin conservancy Tlall conservancy Troup passage conservancy Ug
W
Iwa'/cape caution – blunden bay conservancy Upper gladys river/watsíx deiyi conservancy Willison creek – nelson lake/sít' héeni conservancy Bishop bay – monkey beach corridor conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1975; Except (1) those parts required for the ancillary facilities required For timber harvesting in lands excepted from or beyond the conservancy In the monkey beach development; and (2) that part lying beyond a line Drawn parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 13 hectares (5 hectares of upland and 8 hectares of foreshore).
Carter bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1967.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 462 hectares (310 hectares of upland and 152 hectares of foreshore).
Cetan/thurston bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in sayward district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1969; except That part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 230 hectares.
Clyak estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 1967; Except a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and range Road fsr 8387-01.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 356 hectares (288 hectares of upland and 68 hectares of foreshore).
Dean river corridor conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 11 tube 1972; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road fsr 8034; and (2) that part below the natural boundary of the Sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 508 hectares.
Dzawadi/upper klinaklini river conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 2006.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 39 241 hectares.
Goat cove conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 1968.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 95 hectares (74 hectares of upland and 21 hectares of foreshore).
Goose bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 6 tube 1968; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road permit ro 1406, forest licence a16850; (2) district lot 1041; (3) district lot 1228; (4) block a, block b and block c, district lot 1613; and (5) that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 960 hectares.
Khutzeymateen inlet west conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 13 tube 1975; Except a 100 metre right of way centred on old mouse creek forest access Road.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 362 hectares (188 hectares of upland and 174 hectares of foreshore).
Kt'ii/racey conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 1964; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 1 261 hectares.
K'waal conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 4, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1975; Except (1) "quaal" indian reserve no. 3; (2) "quaal" indian reserve no.
3a, district lot 2231; and (3) that part lying beyond a line drawn Parallel to and 200 metres perpendicularly distant from the natural Boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 3 300 hectares (3 260 hectares of upland and 40 hectares of foreshore).
Manzanita cove conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 5, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 9 tube 1972; Except that part lying beyond a line drawn parallel to and 200 metres Perpendicularly distant from the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 62 hectares (27 hectares of upland and 35 hectares of foreshore).
Nakina – inklin rivers (kuthai area)/yáwu yaa conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 7 tube 2010; except Silver salmon lake indian reserve 5, district lot 5477.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 26 047 hectares.
Namu corridor conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 1991.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 83 hectares.
Neğiƛ/nekite estuary conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 8 tube 1970; Except (1) a 30 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road fsr 8366; and (2) the land and water contained within the Boundaries described as follows: commencing at utm zone 9 north 5693610 Metres east 630700 metres; thence to the easterly 15 metre offset from The centre line of road fsr 8366-01, nekite mainline, at utm zone 9 North 5693610 metres east 630611 metres +/−; thence northerly along the Easterly 15 metre offset from fsr 8366-01, nekite mainline, to utm zone 9 north 5693930 metres east 630569 metres +/−; thence to utm zone 9 North 5693930 metres east 630700 metres; thence to utm zone 9 north 5693610 metres east 630700 metres, being the point of commencement.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 481 hectares (331 hectares of upland and 150 hectares of foreshore).
Pałəmin/estero basin conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 1, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 1 tube 1968; Except (1) a 100 metre right of way centred on ministry of forests and Range road fsr 9125-01; and (2) that part in frederick arm below the Natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 978 hectares (2 330 hectares of upland and 648 hectares of foreshore).
Tlall conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in queen charlotte district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 3 tube 2005; Except (1) the highway 16 right of way as shown on plan prp 8300 and on Plan 10, tube 592 deposited in the crown land registry; (2) a 30 Metre road right of way centred on the ministry of forests and range Permit road r13349-4, survey main; and (3) a 30 metre right of way Centred on the non-status road north of lawn creek through district lot 257.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 16 231 hectares (16 209 hectares of upland and 22 hectares of foreshore).
Troup passage conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 3, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 14 tube 1969; Except that part below the natural boundary of the sea.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 2 617 hectares.
Ug
W
Iwa'/cape caution – blunden bay conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in range 2, coast district And contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official Plan deposited in the crown land registry as plan 10 tube 2008.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 331 hectares (237 hectares of upland and 94 hectares of foreshore).
Upper gladys river/watsíx deiyi conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 12 tube 2008.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 56 358 hectares.
Willison creek – nelson lake/sít' héeni conservancy All those parcels or tracts of crown land, together with all that Foreshore or land covered by water, situated in cassiar district and Contained within the described boundaries as shown on the official plan Deposited in the crown land registry as plan 5 tube 2010; except Those portions of mineral claim 829202 and mineral claim 829222 lying Outside the boundary of the mineral reserve established as site number 1005127 under b.c. reg. 280/2007.
The whole conservancy containing approximately 10 300 hectares.