Yale First Nation Final Agreement Act
[SBC 2011] CHAPTER 11
Assented to June 2, 2011
Preamble
WHEREAS the recognition and reconciliation of the prior presence of
Aboriginal peoples and the assertion of sovereignty by the Crown is of
significant social and economic importance to all British Columbians;
AND WHEREAS Canadian courts have stated that this reconciliation is
best achieved through negotiation and agreement, rather than through
litigation;
AND WHEREAS, in order to achieve this reconciliation, representatives
of the Yale First Nation, Canada and British Columbia have negotiated
the Yale First Nation Final Agreement in a process facilitated by the
British Columbia Treaty Commission;
AND WHEREAS British Columbia is building a New Relationship with First
Nations and working to close the social and economic gaps that exist
between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people;
AND WHEREAS the Yale First Nation Final Agreement embodies the
principles of this New Relationship, including mutual respect,
recognition and reconciliation of Aboriginal rights and title;
AND WHEREAS the Yale First Nation Final Agreement requires that
British Columbia enact legislation to give effect to the Yale First
Nation Final Agreement;
THEREFORE HER MAJESTY, by and with the advice and consent of the
Legislative Assembly of the Province of British Columbia, enacts as
follows:
Not in force
1-3
[Not in force.]
Authorization to sign Yale First Nation Final Agreement
4
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize a member of the
Executive Council to sign the Yale First Nation Final Agreement.
Not in force
5-10
[Not in force.]
Authorization to enter into agreements
11
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may authorize a member of the
Executive Council to enter into, on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen in
right of British Columbia, an agreement that is contemplated by the
Yale First Nation Final Agreement.
Tax treatment agreement
12
(1)-(2)
[Not in force.]
(3)
The minister charged with the administration of the
Financial Administration Act
is authorized to enter into the agreement referred to in sections
21.6.1 and 21.6.2 of Chapter 21 of the Yale First Nation Final
Agreement, or an agreement amending the tax treatment agreement, and
may sign the agreement or amending agreement before or after it has
been approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Harvest agreement
13
(1)
[Not in force.]
(2)
The minister charged with the administration of the
Fisheries Act
is authorized to enter into the harvest agreement, and an agreement
amending the harvest agreement in accordance with the terms of the
harvest agreement, on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen in right of
British Columbia.
Not in force
14-16
[Not in force.]
Retroactive effect of Chapters 25 and 26
17
(1)
For the purposes of determining the eligibility of individuals for
enrolment under the Yale First Nation Final Agreement, enrolling
individuals under the Yale First Nation Final Agreement and ratifying
that agreement by the Yale First Nation,
(a)
Chapters 25
[Eligibility and Enrolment]
and 26
[Ratification]
of that agreement are conclusively deemed to have come into force on
February 5, 2010 and are retroactive to the extent necessary
to give them force and effect on and after that date,
(b)
all things done that would have been validly done if Chapters 25 and
26 of the Yale First Nation Final Agreement had been in force on
February 5, 2010 are conclusively deemed to have been
validly done, and
(c)
a person, committee or board is conclusively deemed to have had since
February 5, 2010 the powers, privileges and immunities the person,
committee or board would have had if Chapters 25 and 26 of the Yale
First Nation Final Agreement had been in force on February 5, 2010.
(2)
Each of the following bodies, despite the
Personal Information Protection Act
, is conclusively deemed to have had, on and after February 5, 2010,
lawful authority to collect, use and disclose personal information as
necessary for determining the eligibility of individuals for enrolment
under the Yale First Nation Final Agreement, enrolling individuals
under the Yale First Nation Final Agreement and ratifying that
agreement by the Yale First Nation, all in accordance with the
processes required by that agreement:
(a)
the Enrolment Committee established under section 25.5.1 of Chapter 25
of the Yale First Nation Final Agreement;
(b)
the Enrolment Appeal Board established under section 25.6.1 of Chapter
25 of the Yale First Nation Final Agreement;
(c)
the Ratification Committee established under section 26.5.1 of Chapter
26 of the Yale First Nation Final Agreement.
(3)
A body referred to in subsection (2) must comply with section 35 of
the
Personal Information Protection Act
in relation to the personal information referred to in subsection (2)
of this section as if the body were an organization as defined in that
Act.
(4)
This section must not be construed as lacking retroactive effect in
relation to any matter because it makes no specific reference to that
matter.
Not in force
18-19
[Not in force.]
Consequential and Related Amendments
[Note: See Table of Legislative Changes for the status of sections
20 to 69.]
Section(s)
Affected Act
20
Assessment Act
21-23
Assessment Authority Act
24
Consumption Tax Rebate and Transition Act
25
Final Agreement Consequential Amendments Act, 2007
26-40
Hospital District Act
41-42
Interpretation Act
43
Local Government Act
44-47
Maa-nulth First Nations Final Agreement Act
48-59
Marriage Act
60
Mineral Land Tax Act
61
Mineral Tax Act
62
Motor Fuel Tax Act
63
Petroleum and Natural Gas Act
64
Property Transfer Tax Act
65
South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act
66-68
Treaty First Nation Taxation Act
69
Tsawwassen First Nation Final Agreement Act
Commencement
70
The provisions of this Act referred to in column 1 of the following
table come into force as set out in column 2 of the table:
Item
Column 1
Provisions of Act
Column 2
Commencement
1
Anything not elsewhere covered by this table
The date of Royal Assent
2
Sections 1 to 3
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
3
Sections 5 to 10
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
4
Section 12 (1), (2) and (4)
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
5
Section 13 (1), (3) and (4)
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
6
Sections 14 to 16
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
7
Section 17
February 5, 2010
8
Sections 18 to 20
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
9
Sections 26 to 40
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
10
Sections 42 and 43
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
11
Sections 48 to 59
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
12
Section 69
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
13
Schedule except chapters 25 and 26
By regulation of the Lieutenant Governor in Council
14
Schedule chapters 25 and 26
February 5, 2010
Schedule
PREAMBLE
[Not in force.]
CHAPTERS 1 to 24
[Not in force.]
CHAPTER 25 ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLMENT
25.1 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
25.1.1
An individual is eligible for enrolment under this Agreement if that
individual:
a. is of Yale First Nation ancestry and has a demonstrated attachment to
Yale First Nation;
b. was a member, or was entitled to be a member, of the Yale Band under
the
Indian Act
as of the day before the Effective Date;
c. was adopted as a Child under laws recognized in Canada or by Yale
First Nation custom by an individual who is eligible for enrolment under
this Agreement;
d. has been accepted into the community under Yale First Nation custom;
or
e. is a descendant of an individual who is eligible for enrolment under
a, b, c or d.
25.1.2
In determining whether an individual has a demonstrated attachment under
25.1.1a the Enrolment Committee, or a body established under 25.7, will
take into account all relevant factors, including:
a. the number and degree of ancestral connections between the individual
and Yale First Nation;
b. present family connections between the individual and Yale First
Nation;
c. the individual's ordinary place of residence;
d. cultural, linguistic, and spiritual ties between the individual and
Yale First Nation; and
e. participation by the individual in the community activities, culture
and traditions of Yale First Nation.
25.1.3
Enrolment under this Agreement will not:
a. confer or deny rights of entry into Canada, Canadian citizenship, the
right to be registered as an Indian under the
Indian Act
, or any of the rights or benefits under the
Indian Act
; or
b. except as set out in this Agreement or in any Federal or Provincial
Law, impose any obligation on Canada or British Columbia to provide
rights or benefits.
25.2 APPLICATIONS FOR ENROLMENT
25.2.1
An individual may, in accordance with this Chapter:
a. apply to the Enrolment Committee, or a body established under 25.7,
for enrolment under this Agreement;
b. appeal a decision of the Enrolment Committee to the Enrolment Appeal
Board; and
c. seek judicial review of a decision of the Enrolment Appeal Board or a
body established under 25.7,
on the individual's own behalf, or on behalf of a Child or an adult
whose affairs the individual has legal authority to manage.
25.2.2
Each applicant has the burden of demonstrating that he or she meets the
Eligibility Criteria.
25.3 OTHER LAND CLAIMS AGREEMENTS
25.3.1
Other than as provided below, an applicant who is a beneficiary of, or
has applied for enrolment under, another treaty or land claims agreement
in Canada will not at the same time be enrolled under this Agreement.
25.3.2
Upon application to be enrolled under this Agreement, an applicant must
notify the Enrolment Committee or a body established under 25.7 if he or
she is a beneficiary of, or has applied for enrolment under, another
treaty or land claims agreement in Canada.
25.3.3
Subject to 25.3.4, an individual described in 25.3.1 may be enrolled if
he or she meets the Eligibility Criteria.
25.3.4
An individual who has been enrolled under 25.3.3 will:
a. within 120 days after the Effective Date; or
b. where the decision to accept his or her application to be enrolled
under 25.3.3 is made after the Effective Date, within 120 days of
receiving written notification from the Enrolment Committee or a body
established under 25.7 that he or she has been enrolled;
provide written evidence to a body established under 25.7 to demonstrate
that he or she has ceased to be a beneficiary of, or has withdrawn his
or her application for enrolment under, another treaty or land claims
agreement in Canada.
25.3.5
If an individual enrolled under 25.3.3 fails to satisfy the requirements
of 25.3.4, his or her name will be removed from the Enrolment Register.
25.3.6
An individual enrolled under 25.3.3 is not entitled to exercise any
rights or receive any benefits under this Agreement until he or she has
satisfied the requirements of 25.3.4.
25.4 MEMBERSHIP IN A BAND OTHER THAN THE YALE BAND
25.4.1
For greater certainty, as provided in 2.10.1, after the Effective Date,
upon becoming a Yale First Nation Member an individual ceases to be a
member or a registered Indian of any Band.
26.4.2
An individual who was a member or a registered Indian of a Band other
than the Yale Band will:
a. within 120 days after the Effective Date; or
b. where the decision to accept his or her application to be enrolled
under 25.3.3 is made after the Effective Date, within 120 days of
receiving written notification from the Enrolment Committee or a body
established under 25.7 that he or she has been enrolled;
do all things necessary to request Canada to change his or her
affiliation to Yale First Nation and to issue a new status card.
25.5 ENROLMENT COMMITTEE
25.5.1
At the beginning of the Initial Enrolment Period, the Yale Band will
establish an Enrolment Committee that will be responsible for the
enrolment process during the Initial Enrolment Period and will be
comprised of three representatives appointed by the Yale Band.
25.5.2
Yale First Nation will notify Canada and British Columbia of the members
of the Enrolment Committee.
25.5.3
The Enrolment Committee will:
a. establish enrolment procedures and time limits;
b. take reasonable steps to notify individuals potentially eligible to
be enrolled of the Eligibility Criteria and enrolment procedures;
c. publish its enrolment procedures, including a list of the
documentation and information required of each applicant;
d. publish the Eligibility Criteria, provide information on the
enrolment process and provide application forms to any individual who
wishes to apply for enrolment;
e. during the Initial Enrolment Period, receive enrolment applications,
consider each application, request further information if required,
enrol applicants who meet the Eligibility Criteria, and maintain a
record of those decisions;
f. establish and maintain an Enrolment Register;
g. notify in writing each applicant and the Parties of its decision and,
if enrolment is refused, provide written reasons;
h. on request, provide information with respect to an applicant's
enrolment application, in confidence, to the Parties and the Enrolment
Appeal Board;
i. add names to, delete names from, or amend names on, the Enrolment
Register in accordance with this Chapter and decisions of the Enrolment
Appeal Board;
j. unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, keep information provided
by and about applicants confidential;
k. provide a copy of the Enrolment Register to the Parties; and
l. provide a copy of the Enrolment Register, and any other relevant
information requested, to the Ratification Committee in a timely manner.
25.5.4
During the Initial Enrolment Period, after a decision of the Enrolment
Committee and before any appeal of that decision is commenced, an
applicant may submit new information to the Enrolment Committee.
25.5.5
The Enrolment Committee may, before an appeal of a decision is
commenced, vary the decision on the basis of new information if it
considers the decision was in error.
25.5.6
If the Enrolment Committee fails to decide upon an application for
enrolment within the time limit established in its enrolment procedures,
the application is deemed to be refused and the failure to decide
constitutes grounds for appeal to the Enrolment Appeal Board.
25.5.7
No action lies or may be commenced against the Enrolment Committee or
any member of the Enrolment Committee for anything said or done or
omitted to be said or done in good faith in the performance, or intended
performance, of a duty or in the exercise of a power under this Chapter.
25.5.8
Subject to this Chapter, all decisions of the Enrolment Committee will
be final and binding.
25.5.9
If an applicant applies to have his or her own name, or the name of a
Child or an adult whose affairs he or she has the legal authority to
manage, removed from the Enrolment Register, the Enrolment Committee
will remove the name and will notify the applicant.
25.6 ENROLMENT APPEAL BOARD
25.6.1
Yale First Nation and Canada will establish the Enrolment Appeal Board
at a date agreed upon by the Parties.
25.6.2
Yale First Nation and Canada will each appoint one member to the
Enrolment Appeal Board and will jointly appoint a third member, and the
members will select a chairperson from among themselves.
25.6.3
A member of the Enrolment Committee may not also be a member of the
Enrolment Appeal Board.
25.6.4
During the Initial Enrolment Period, an applicant or a Party may appeal
by written notice to the Enrolment Appeal Board:
a. any decision of the Enrolment Committee made under 25.5.3e or 25.5.5;
and
b. any application that is deemed to be refused under 25.5.6.
25.6.5
The Enrolment Appeal Board will:
a. establish and publish its own procedures and time limits;
b. hear and determine any appeal brought under 25.6.4 and decide whether
the applicant will be enrolled;
c. conduct its hearings in public unless it determines in a particular
case that there are reasons for confidentiality that outweigh the public
interest in having an open hearing;
d. provide written reasons for its decision to the applicant, the
Enrolment Committee and the Parties; and
e. maintain a record of its decisions and communicate them to the
Enrolment Committee as required.
25.6.6
As of the Effective Date, the Enrolment Appeal Board may:
a. by summons require any individual to appear before the Enrolment
Appeal Board as a witness and produce any relevant document in his or
her possession; and
b. direct a witness to answer on oath or solemn affirmation any relevant
question posed to the witness.
25.6.7
If a person fails to comply with a summons or direction of the Enrolment
Appeal Board made under 25.6.6, on application by the Enrolment Appeal
Board, a judge of the Provincial Court of British Columbia may enforce
the summons or direction.
25.6.8
Any applicant, Party or witness appearing before the Enrolment Appeal
Board may be represented by counsel or an agent.
25.6.9
No action lies or may be commenced against the Enrolment Appeal Board or
any member of the Enrolment Appeal Board for anything said or done or
omitted to be said or done in good faith in the performance, or intended
performance, of a duty or in the exercise of a power under this Chapter.
25.6.10
Subject to 25.8, all decisions of the Enrolment Appeal Board will be
final and binding.
25.7 ENROLMENT AFTER THE INITIAL ENROLMENT PERIOD
25.7.1
The Enrolment Committee and the Enrolment Appeal Board will be dissolved
when they have rendered final decisions with respect to those
applications or appeals commenced during the Initial Enrolment Period.
25.7.2
On dissolution, the Enrolment Committee and Enrolment Appeal Board will
provide their records to Yale First Nation and to Canada or British
Columbia upon request.
25.7.3
After the Initial Enrolment Period, Yale First Nation will:
a. be responsible for the enrolment process, including the application
of the Eligibility Criteria;
b. maintain the Enrolment Register;
c. provide a copy of the Enrolment Register to Canada and British
Columbia each year or as otherwise requested by Canada or British
Columbia; and
d. provide information respecting enrolment to Canada or British
Columbia upon request.
25.8 JUDICIAL REVIEW
25.8.1
An applicant or a Party may apply to the Supreme Court of British
Columbia for judicial review of a decision of the Enrolment Appeal
Board, or any body established by Yale First Nation to undertake
responsibilities provided under 25.7, on the grounds that the Enrolment
Appeal Board or body:
a. acted without jurisdiction, acted beyond its jurisdiction or refused
to exercise its jurisdiction;
b. failed to observe procedural fairness;
c. erred in law; or
d. based its decision on an erroneous finding of fact that it made in a
perverse or capricious manner or without regard for the material before
it.
25.8.2
On an application for judicial review under 25.8.1 the Supreme Court of
British Columbia may dismiss the application, set aside the decision or
refer the matter back to the Enrolment Appeal Board, or a body
established under 25.7, for determination in accordance with such
directions as the court considers appropriate.
25.8.3
If the Enrolment Appeal Board, or a body established under 25.7, fails
to hear or decide an appeal within a reasonable time, an applicant or a
Party may apply to the Supreme Court of British Columbia for an order
directing the Enrolment Appeal Board or body to hear or decide the
appeal in accordance with such directions as the court considers
appropriate.
25.8.4
An application for judicial review under 25.8.1 must be brought within
60 days of notification of the decision of the Enrolment Appeal Board or
any body established under 25.7.
25.8.5
Notwithstanding 25.8.4, the court may extend the time for making an
application for judicial review on terms the court considers proper.
25.9 COSTS
25.9.1
Canada and British Columbia will provide to Yale First Nation an agreed
amount of funding for the Enrolment Committee and the Enrolment Appeal
Board to carry out the functions with respect to those applications or
appeals commenced during the Initial Enrolment Period.
25.9.2
The Enrolment Committee and the Enrolment Appeal Board will operate
within their approved budgets.
25.9.3
After the Initial Enrolment Period, Yale First Nation will bear the
administrative costs associated with enrolment.
CHAPTER 26 RATIFICATION
26.1 GENERAL
26.1.1
This Agreement is legally binding once ratified by all of the Parties in
accordance with this Chapter.
26.1.2
This Agreement will be submitted to the Parties for ratification as set
out in this Chapter after it has been initialled by chief negotiators
for the Parties.
26.2 RATIFICATION OF YALE FIRST NATION CONSTITUTION
26.2.1
Ratification of the Yale First Nation Constitution requires:
a. that Eligible Voters have a reasonable opportunity to review the Yale
First Nation Constitution;
b. a vote by way of a secret ballot that is conducted by the
Ratification Committee in accordance with 26.4 and 26.5.2; and
c. that at least fifty percent plus one of individuals on the List of
Eligible Voters vote in favour of the Yale First Nation Constitution.
26.2.2
Once ratified, the Yale First Nation Constitution will come into force
on the Effective Date.
26.3 RATIFICATION OF THIS AGREEMENT BY YALE FIRST NATION
26.3.1
Ratification of this Agreement by Yale First Nation requires:
a. that Eligible Voters have a reasonable opportunity to review this
Agreement;
b. a vote by way of a secret ballot that is conducted by the
Ratification Committee in accordance with 26.4 and 26.5.2;
c. that at least fifty percent plus one of individuals on the List of
Eligible Voters vote in favour of this Agreement;
d. ratification of the Yale First Nation Constitution under 26.2.1; and
e. that this Agreement be signed by the authorized representative of
Yale First Nation.
26.4 ELIGIBLE VOTERS
26.4.1
An individual is eligible to vote if:
a. he or she is a Yale First Nation Member;
b. he or she is at least 18 years of age on the last day of voting; and
c. his or her name is included on the List of Eligible Voters.
26.4.2
Notwithstanding 26.4.1, an individual whose name is not included on the
List of Eligible Voters is eligible to vote if he or she:
a. provides the voting officer with a completed enrolment application
form or evidence satisfactory to the voting officer that the individual
has submitted a completed enrolment application form to the Enrolment
Committee; and
b. provides the voting officer with evidence satisfactory to the voting
officer that the individual meets the requirement in 26.4.1b.
26.4.3
If the Enrolment Committee notifies the Ratification Committee that an
individual referred to in 26.4.2 meets the Eligibility Criteria:
a. the name of the individual will be added to the List of Eligible
Voters; and
b. the ballot of the individual will be tabulated for the purposes of
the votes under 26.2.1b and 26.3.1b.
26.5 RATIFICATION COMMITTEE
26.5.1
The Parties will establish a Ratification Committee, consisting of one
representative appointed by each Party, to be responsible for the Yale
First Nation processes for ratifying the Yale First Nation Constitution
and this Agreement as set out in this Chapter.
26.5.2
The Ratification Committee will:
a. ensure that Yale First Nation has provided Eligible Voters a
reasonable opportunity to review the Yale First Nation Constitution and
this Agreement;
b. establish and publish its procedures;
c. set its time limits;
d. at least 30 days before the first day of voting, prepare and publish
a List of Eligible Voters based on the Enrolment Register provided by
the Enrolment Committee under 25.5.3 by determining whether each
individual on the register is eligible to vote under 26.4.1b; and
e. update the List of Eligible Voters by:
i. at any time on or before the last day of voting, adding to the List
of Eligible Voters the name of each individual provided by the Enrolment
Committee under 25.5.3 whom the Ratification Committee determines to be
eligible to vote under 26.4.1b;
ii. adding to the List of Eligible Voters the name of each individual
provided by the Enrolment Committee under 26.4.3;
iii. removing from the List of Eligible Voters the name of each
individual who died on or before the last day of voting without having
voted;
iv. removing from the List of Eligible Voters the name of each
individual who did not vote and who provides to the Ratification
Committee, within four days of the last day of voting, certification by
a qualified medical practitioner that the individual was physically or
mentally incapacitated to the point that he or she could not have voted
on the dates set for voting; and
v. removing from the List of Eligible Voters the name of each individual
who has applied, or on whose behalf application has been made, by the
close of polls on the last day of voting, to have his or her name
removed from the Enrolment Register under 25.5.9, provided the
individual has not already voted;
f. after updating the List of Eligible Voters in accordance with
26.5.2e, prepare and publish a final List of Eligible Voters for each of
the votes;
g. approve the form and content of the ballots;
h. authorize and provide general direction to voting officers to be
employed in the conduct of the votes;
i. establish polling stations;
j. conduct the votes on the dates established by the Ratification
Committee;
k. ensure that information about the dates set for voting and location
of the polling stations be made publicly available;
l. tabulate the results of the votes;
m. provide the Parties with the result of the votes;
n. publish the result of the vote to ratify this Agreement; and
o. prepare and provide to the Parties a written report on the outcome of
the vote to ratify this Agreement within 90 days of the last day of
voting.
26.5.3
For greater certainty, the Ratification Committee may conduct the votes
to ratify the Yale First Nation Constitution and this Agreement on
separate dates.
26.6 RATIFICATION BY BRITISH COLUMBIA
26.6.1
Ratification of this Agreement by British Columbia requires:
a. that this Agreement be signed by a Minister authorized to do so; and
b. the coming into force of Provincial Settlement Legislation.
26.7 RATIFICATION BY CANADA
26.7.1
Ratification of this Agreement by Canada requires:
a. that this Agreement be signed by a Minister authorized to do so by
the federal Cabinet; and
b. the coming into force of Federal Settlement Legislation.
26.8 CHANGES TO AGREEMENT PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE
26.8.1
Before the Parties sign this Agreement the chief negotiators for the
Parties may agree to make minor changes to this Agreement.
26.8.2
Before the Effective Date, the chief negotiators for the Parties may
agree to correct any editing, grammatical or typographical errors found
in this Agreement, and the corrections may be incorporated in the final
printing of this Agreement after the Effective Date.
26.9 COSTS
26.9.1
Canada and British Columbia will provide an amount of funding agreed
upon by the Parties for the Ratification Committee to carry out the
duties and responsibilities set out in this Chapter.
CHAPTER 27
[Not in force.]
