Organic Matter Recycling Regulation
Environmental Management Act and Public Health Act
Column 1 — Organic Matter
Column 2 — Constituents of Organic Matter
animal bedding
animal bedding derived from straw, paper, hog fuel, wood chips,
bark, shavings or sawdust.
biosolids
stabilized municipal sewage sludge resulting from a municipal
waste water treatment process or septage treatment process which
has been sufficiently treated to reduce pathogen densities and
vector attraction to allow the sludge to be beneficially
recycled in accordance with the requirements of this regulation.
brewery waste/winery waste
used or diverted grain, malt, hop flowers, berries, fruit,
leaves and twigs and yeast resulting from brewing or wine making
process.
domestic septic tank sludge
sludge removed from a septic tank used for receiving, treating
and settling domestic sewage.
fish wastes
fish carcasses and parts from harvested wild stocks, commercial
aquaculture operations and fish processing facilities. This
would include offal, viscera and mortalities from fish and
shellfish. It would also include faeces captured from commercial
aquaculture net pens.
food waste
recyclable food for humans that has been diverted from
residential, commercial or institutional sources.
hatchery waste
broken or unhatched eggs, unhatched chicks, membranes, embryonic
fluids and eggshell.
manure
animal excreta from pets, animals in zoological facilities, fish
held in commercial aquaculture or aquarium facilities,
livestock, farmed game or poultry. This does not include the
management of animal excreta (manure) to which the Code of
Practice for Agricultural Environmental Management applies on
agricultural land bases, but does include animal excreta
(manure) to which that code does not apply.
milk processing waste
sludge or biomass from treatment of milk or fluid milk which has
been diverted from human food consumption.
plant matter derived from processing plants
fruit, vegetable and vegetative material derived from fruit and
vegetable processing plants that have been removed from an
agricultural land base but are no longer agricultural
by-products within the meaning of the Code of Practice for
Agricultural Environmental Management.
poultry carcasses
carcasses of domestic fowls, such as chickens, turkeys, ducks or
geese, raised for meat or eggs. This would include offal and
viscera as well as mortalities from fowl which died from
reported "Federally Reported Diseases".
red-meat waste
carcasses of red-meat animals such as cattle, swine, sheep,
fallow deer, farmed game and farmed bison.
untreated and unprocessed wood residuals
clean (non-contaminated and untreated) wood from lumber
manufacture, e.g. shavings, sawdust, chips, hog fuel, ground
mill ends and land clearing waste which has been ground with the
majority of the greenery removed and no soil present but does
not include construction and demolition debris.
whey
the serum or watery part of milk that remains after the
manufacture of cheese.
yard waste
clean and untreated wood waste or non-food vegetative matter
resulting from gardening operations, landscaping, and land
clearing; yard waste does not include wood waste derived from
construction or demolition. Neither human or animal food waste
that is diverted from residential, commercial or institutional
sources, nor manure, is yard waste.
