B.C. Reg. 177/2010
Securities Commission
Deposited June 25, 2010
effective June 30, 2010
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to Point in Time
Securities Act
National Instrument 23-102
Use of Client Brokerage Commissions
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 238/2014, January 11, 2015]
Part 1 — Definitions
Definitions
1.1
In this Instrument,
"affiliated entity"
has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1.3 of National Instrument
21-101
Marketplace Operation
;
"client brokerage commissions"
means brokerage commissions paid for out of, or charged to, a client
account or investment fund managed by the adviser;
"managed account"
has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1.1 of National Instrument
31-103
Registration Requirements, Exemptions and Ongoing Registrant
Obligations
;
"order execution goods and services"
means
(a)
order execution; and
(b)
goods or services to the extent that they are directly related to
order execution;
"research goods and services"
means
(a)
advice relating to the value of a security or the advisability of
effecting a transaction in a security;
(b)
an analysis, or report, concerning a security, portfolio strategy,
issuer, industry, or an economic or political factor or trend; and
(c)
a database, or software, to the extent that it supports goods or
services referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b).
[am. B.C. Reg. 238/2014, App. D, s. 3.]
Interpretation — security
1.2
For the purposes of this Instrument,
(a)
in Alberta, British Columbia, New Brunswick and Saskatchewan,
"security"
includes an exchange contract; and
(b)
in Québec,
"security"
includes a standardized derivative.
Interpretation — adviser
1.3
For the purposes of this Instrument,
"adviser"
means
(a)
a registered adviser; or
(b)
a registered dealer that carries out advisory functions but is exempt
from registration as an adviser.
Part 2 — Application
Application
2.1
This Instrument applies to an adviser or a registered dealer in
relation to a trade in a security if brokerage commissions are charged
by a dealer for an account, or portfolio, over which the adviser has
discretion to make investment decisions without requiring the express
consent of the client, including, for greater certainty,
(a)
an investment fund; and
(b)
a managed account.
Part 3 — Commissions on Brokerage Transactions
Advisers
3.1
(1)
An adviser must not direct any brokerage transactions involving client
brokerage commissions to a dealer in return for the provision of goods
or services by the dealer or a third party, other than any of the
following:
(a)
order execution goods and services;
(b)
research goods and services.
(2)
An adviser that directs any brokerage transactions involving client
brokerage commissions to a dealer, in return for the provision of any
order execution goods and services or research goods and services by
the dealer or a third party, must ensure that
(a)
the goods or services are to be used to assist with investment or
trading decisions, or with effecting securities transactions, on
behalf of the client or clients; and
(b)
a good faith determination is made that the client or clients receive
reasonable benefit considering both the use of the goods or services
and the amount of client brokerage commissions paid.
Registered dealers
3.2
A registered dealer must not accept, or forward to a third party,
client brokerage commissions, or any portion of those commissions, in
return for the provision to an adviser of goods or services by the
dealer or a third party, other than any of the following:
(a)
order execution goods and services;
(b)
research goods and services.
Part 4 — Disclosure Obligations
Disclosure
4.1
(1)
An adviser must provide the following disclosure to a client if any
brokerage transactions involving the client brokerage commissions of
that client have been or might be directed to a dealer in return for
the provision of any good or service by the dealer or a third party,
other than order execution:
(a)
before the adviser opens a client account or enters into a management
contract or a similar agreement to advise an investment fund,
(i)
a description of the process for, and factors considered in, selecting
a dealer to effect securities transactions, including whether
receiving goods or services in addition to order execution is a
factor, and whether and how the process may differ for a dealer that
is an affiliated entity;
(ii)
a description of the nature of the arrangements under which order
execution goods and services or research goods and services might be
provided;
(iii)
a list of each type of good or service, other than order execution,
that might be provided; and
(iv)
a description of the method by which the determination in paragraph
3.1 (2) (b) is made;
(b)
at least annually,
(i)
the information required to be disclosed under paragraph (a) other
than subparagraph (a) (iii);
(ii)
a list of each type of good or service, other than order execution,
that has been provided;
(iii)
the name of any affiliated entity that provided any good or service
referred to in subparagraph (ii), separately identifying each
affiliated entity and each type of good or service provided by each
affiliated entity; and
(iv)
a statement that the name of any other dealer or third party that
provided a good or service referred to in subparagraph (ii), if that
name was not disclosed under subparagraph (iii), will be provided to
the client upon request.
(2)
An adviser must maintain a record of the name of any dealer or third
party that provided a good or service, other than order execution
under section 3.1, and must provide that information to the client
upon request.
Part 5 — Exemption
Exemption
5.1
(1)
The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from this Instrument, in whole or in part, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the exemption.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), in Ontario only the regulator may grant an
exemption.
(3)
Except in Ontario, an exemption referred to in subsection (1) is
granted under the statute referred to in Appendix B of National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
opposite the name of the local jurisdiction.
Part 6 — Effective Date and Transition
Effective date
6.1
This Instrument comes into force on June 30, 2010.
Transition
6.2
On or before December 31, 2010, an adviser must provide to a client,
if the client was a client on June 30, 2010, the disclosure required
under paragraph 4.1 (1) (a) or (b).
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, section 184]
