





View Complete Regulation






B.C. Reg. 296/97

Workers' Compensation Board


Deposited September 8, 1997

effective April 15, 1998






This consolidation is current to November 28, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after November 28, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 223/2022]


Part 12 — Tools, Machinery and Equipment





Definitions




12.1


In this Part:


"guard"
means a type of safeguard consisting of a physical barrier which
prevents a worker from reaching over, under, around or through the
barrier to a moving part or point of operation;


"jumbo"
means a mobile platform having one or more levels which provides work
areas for persons, machines, tools, drills or other materials;



"point of operation"

means the danger area in a machine where a part is being formed or
work is being done;



"power transmission part"

means any moving part of a machine that transfers power from a power
source to a point of operation;


"safeguard"
means the use of a guard, a safety device, a shield, an awareness
barrier, warning signs, or other appropriate means, either singly or
in combination, to provide effective protection to workers from
hazards;



"safety device"

means a type of safeguard consisting of an arrangement of operating
controls, an active or passive physical restraint, an interlock, or a
presence sensing device which ensures that a worker cannot access or
be in a hazardous area while a machine is operating;


"shield"
means a type of safeguard consisting of a physical cover or barrier
which restricts but does not prevent access to a hazardous moving part
or a point of operation.




General Requirements





Safeguarding requirement




12.2


Unless elsewhere provided for in this Occupational Health and Safety
Regulation, the employer must ensure that machinery and equipment is
fitted with adequate safeguards which




(a)

protect a worker from contact with hazardous power transmission parts,




(b)

ensure that a worker cannot access a hazardous point of operation, and




(c)

safely contain any material ejected by the work process which could be
hazardous to a worker.






Standards




12.3


The application, design, construction and use of safeguards, including
an opening in a guard and the reach distance to a hazardous part, must
meet the requirements of
CSA Standard Z432-94, Safeguarding of Machinery
.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 15.]





Effectiveness of safeguards




12.4


A safeguard must be capable of effectively performing its intended
function.






Fixed guards




12.5


A fixed guard must not be modified to be readily removable without the
use of tools.






Lubrication




12.6


A guard must be designed, where practicable, to allow lubrication and
routine maintenance without removal of the guard.






Repealed




12.7


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 16.]






Repealed




12.8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 7.]






Repealed




12.9


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 13.]






Identifying unsafe equipment




12.10


An unsafe tool, machine or piece of equipment must be removed from
service and identified in a manner which will ensure it is not
inadvertently returned to service until it has been made safe for use.






Operating controls




12.11

(1)


Powered equipment other than portable powered tools or mobile
equipment must have




(a)

starting and stopping controls located within easy reach of the
operator,




(b)

controls and switches clearly identified to indicate the functions
they serve,




(c)

controls positioned, designed or shielded as necessary to prevent
inadvertent activation,




(d)

if two-hand controls are installed, controls designed to require
concurrent use of both hands to operate the equipment, and to require
both controls to be released before another machine cycle can be
initiated, and




(e)

control systems meeting the requirements of this Regulation.




(2)

Portable powered tools and mobile equipment must have operating
controls conforming to an appropriate standard acceptable to the
Board.




(3)

A remote control device that operates mobile equipment must be
equipped with a fail safe, or stop, mechanism that becomes operational
if the remote control device fails.

[am. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 5.]





Machinery location




12.12


A machine must be located or safeguarded so that operation of the
machine will not endanger workers using normal passage routes about
the workplace or operating an adjacent machine.






Marking physical hazards




12.13


A physical hazard must be marked in a manner that clearly identifies
the hazard to the affected workers.






Identification of piping




12.14

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 8.]




(2)

A piping system containing substances other than hazardous products
must be identified in a manner known to the affected workers.




(3)

The identification markings on a piping system must be maintained in a
legible condition.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. D, s. 8; 30/2015, s. 34.]






Restraining devices




12.15


Effective means of restraint must be used




(a)

on a connection of a hose or a pipe if inadvertent disconnection could
be dangerous to a worker,




(b)

if unplanned movement of an object or component could endanger a
worker, or




(c)

to secure an object from falling and endangering a worker.




Guarding Mechanical Power Transmission Parts





Rotating hazards




12.16


Rotating parts, such as friction drives, shafts, couplings and
collars, set screws and bolts, keys and keyways, and projecting shaft
ends, exposed to contact by workers must be guarded.






Gears and sprockets




12.17

(1)


Every gear and chain sprocket must be completely enclosed, or if
complete enclosure is impracticable, must have band-type guards with
flanges extending below the root of the teeth.




(2)

If there is a hazard from rotating spokes, the spokes must be guarded
on the sides accessible to workers.






Safeguards for objects or materials




12.17.1

(1)


If a log loader or a rail car loader is mounted on rails, tracks or a
fixed structure, the loader must not be used by an operator until




(a)

a qualified person has completed a written risk assessment of any
hazards created by falling, flying or intruding objects or materials
that may be present while the loader is being used, and




(b)

suitable protective structures, including cabs, windows, screens,
grills, shields, deflectors, guards or structures, have been installed
on the loader that are designed or approved by the manufacturer of the
loader or by a professional engineer to




(i)

eliminate, or reduce to the greatest extent possible, the risks
identified in the risk assessment referred to in paragraph (a), and




(ii)

provide an adequate view for the operator to safely use the machine.




(2)

A person must not remain in a cab of a loader that is mounted on
rails, tracks or a fixed structure while loads are elevated over the
cab unless that cab is protected by an adequate overhead guard.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 6.]





Reciprocating machinery




12.18


A crank, connecting rod, tail rod, extension piston rod or other
reciprocating or oscillating part exposed to contact by workers must
be guarded.






Drive belts




12.19


A power transmission belt, rope or chain must be guarded to protect
workers who would be endangered in the event of its failure.






Reaching up




12.20

(1)


The in-running nip point of a power transmission belt, rope or chain,
and any portion of a flywheel or pulley located within 2.5 m
(8 ft) above a floor, walkway or platform must be guarded to
prevent contact by workers.




(2)

An installation of the type covered by subsection (1) in place before
January 1, 1999, which has unguarded parts more than 2.1 m
(7 ft) but less than 2.5 m (8 ft) above the floor,
walkway or platform may have those portions remain unguarded unless
the work process presents an undue risk to workers if those portions
remain unguarded, or until such time as the installation is
substantially overhauled or renovated.






Flywheels and pulleys




12.21

(1)


A pit for a flywheel or pulley must have curbs or toeboards around the
upper edge of the pit.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 14.]




(3)

A flywheel or pulley which is defective or has been exposed to
excessive heat must be removed from service and must not be returned
to service until it has been repaired according to the manufacturer's
recommendations, or certified safe for use by a professional engineer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 14.]



Conveyors





Standards




12.22


Unless otherwise permitted by this Regulation, a conveyor must meet
the requirements of

ANSI Standard ANSI/ASME B20.1-1993, Safety Standards for Conveyors
and Related Equipment

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]





Belt-type conveyors




12.23


A belt conveyor must have accessible nip points of spools and pulleys
guarded to prevent contact by a worker.






Screw-type conveyors




12.24

(1)


The moving parts of a screw-type conveyor must be guarded from contact
by a worker.




(2)

Each guard on a screw-type conveyor must be secured by fasteners
requiring a tool for removal.




(3)

The openings in mesh and grid guards must meet the requirements of
Appendix A of
CSA Standard Z432-94, Safeguarding of Machinery
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]





Feed points




12.25


If the feed point for a conveyor cannot be guarded because of the work
process, any workers required to be in the area must have and use
suitable devices and tools which prevent the worker from contacting
moving parts of the conveyor system.






Repealed




12.26


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 9.]






Falling materials




12.27


A conveyor must have guards or sideboards to prevent material from
falling from the conveyor into areas occupied by workers if the
falling material presents a hazard of impact injury or burn.






Emergency stopping devices




12.28

(1)


A conveyor must have an emergency stopping system unless worker access
to the conveyor is prevented by guarding.




(2)

The conveyor emergency stopping system must be designed and installed
so that the system will activate as a worker falls onto the conveyor,
or if a fallen worker on the conveyor moves an arm or leg off to one
side of the conveyor.




(3)

If a conveyor emergency stopping system uses a pull wire, the system
must activate by a pull of the wire in any direction, or by a slack
cable condition.




(4)

The conveyor emergency stopping system must be designed and installed
so that after an emergency stop, manual resetting is required before
the conveyor can be restarted.




(5)

A conveyor must not be restarted after an emergency stop until
inspection has determined it can be operated safely.




Power Presses, Brake Presses and Shears





Standards




12.29


Point of operation safeguarding, and the design, construction and
reliability of operating controls of a power press, brake press,
ironworker or shear must meet the requirements of the following
applicable standard:




(a)


CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z142-M90, Code for Punch Press and Brake Press
Operation: Health, Safety, and Guarding Requirements;





(b)


ANSI Standard B11.4-1993, American National Standard for Machine
Tools — Shears — Safety Requirements for Construction, Care, and
Use;





(c)


ANSI Standard B11.5-1988(R1994), American National Standard for
Machine Tools — Ironworkers — Safety Requirements for Construction,
Care, and Use.





(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 17.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 17.]





Point of operation safeguarding




12.30

(1)


The point of operation of a power press, brake press or shear must be
safeguarded to prevent injury to the operator or any other worker.




(2)

A hand feeding or extraction tool must not be used as a substitute for
point of operation safeguarding.




(3)

A guillotine or alligator shear must have a guard or other device
which protects the operator from flying particles or material
emanating from the shears.




(4)

The point of operation of a manually powered press, shear or cutter
must be effectively guarded.






Exception for custom work




12.31


The safeguarding for the point of operation of a brake press may be
removed if custom or different bends are being done with each cycle of
the machine, provided that safe work procedures are followed, and
safeguarding is replaced upon completion of such custom work.






Supervisory control




12.32


If a power press or brake press is being used in a production mode the
keys for all control selector switches must remain under a
supervisor's control.






Repealed




12.33


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 10.]




Feed-rolls and Metal-forming Rolls





Feed-rolls




12.34


Feed-rolls must have a guard or safety device to prevent the operator
from contacting any in-running nip points.






Guard design




12.35


A feed-roll guard must be effective for the material thickness being
processed, and the clearance between the guard and the material
passing through the feed-rolls must not exceed 6 mm (1/4 in).






Metal-forming rolls




12.36


If the work process on metal-forming rolls precludes the use of
guards, an emergency stopping system must be installed across the
machine, and also across the rear (offside) of the machine if a worker
is exposed to the hazard on that side, and the emergency stopping
system must activate automatically when contacted.




Machine Tools





Splash guards and shields




12.37


Cutting or cooling fluids, metal chips, swarf or turnings from machine
tool work must be contained.






Lathe chucks




12.38


Dogs that extend beyond the circumference of a lathe chuck must be
safeguarded from contact by the operator.






Restriction on hand polishing




12.39


Lathe stock must be polished with tools designed for this purpose, and
the use of hand held strips of abrasive cloth is prohibited.






Stock projection




12.40


Safeguards must be provided to prevent a worker from contacting stock
projecting from a machine tool.






Shapers/planers




12.41


A shaper or planer bed opening must be covered or safeguarded to
eliminate shearing hazards.






Carriage travel




12.42


Safeguards must be installed at the farthest points of travel of the
carriage or table of a shaper, planer, surface grinder or similar
equipment to protect workers against contact with moving parts.






Vertical boring mills




12.43


The rim of the revolving table of a vertical boring mill must be
safeguarded to prevent contact by workers.




Abrasive Equipment





Standards




12.44


An abrasive wheel must be guarded, used and maintained to meet the
requirements of

ANSI Standard B7.1-1988, The Use, Care and Protection of Abrasive
Wheels

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]





Protective hood




12.45

(1)


An abrasive wheel must have a protective hood that will contain
fragments of the wheel should it break apart while turning.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to




(a)

an abrasive wheel used for internal work,




(b)

a mounted wheel of any shape or type which is 50 mm (2 in) or less in
diameter,




(c)

a threaded-hole, cone or plug type of wheel if the nature of the work
provides protection, or




(d)

a portable grinder when it is being used for grinding root passes in
welded pipe, provided it has a protective hood covering at least 120°
of the wheel periphery and the operator wears adequate eye and face
protection.






Speed of abrasive wheels




12.46

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.]




(2)

The allowable arbor or shaft speed of abrasive equipment must be
clearly marked on the equipment.




(3)

A pneumatic grinder must have a governor which limits maximum shaft
speed to that specified by the tool manufacturer, and the maximum
rated speed must be marked on the equipment.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.]





Grinding prohibitions




12.47


The side of an abrasive wheel must not be used for grinding and
non-ferrous materials must not be ground unless the wheel is designed
for such use.






Work rests




12.48


When the work is hand-held, a grinding machine must have an adjustable
work rest with its upper edge at or above the centreline of the
abrasive wheel and within 3 mm (1/8 in) of the cutting surface.






Dust control




12.49


Dust from a grinding or buffing operation must be controlled to
prevent a hazard to any worker.






Repealed




12.50


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 16.]




Powder Actuated Tools





Standards




12.51


A powder actuated fastening system, consisting of the tool, power
loads and fasteners must meet the requirements of

ANSI Standard A10.3-1995, American National Standard for
Construction and Demolition Operations — Safety Requirements for
Powder-Actuated Fastening Systems

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 4.]





Tool selection




12.52


A low velocity powder actuated tool, with a fastener test speed rating
of less than 100 m (330 ft) per second, must be used unless
no low velocity tool available on the market is capable of doing the
fastening task.






Tool design




12.53

(1)


Two separate and distinct operations must be required to activate a
powder actuated tool and the final firing movement must be separate
and subsequent to depressing the tool into the firing position.




(2)

The tool must be designed so that positive means of varying the power
level is available, or can be made available, so that the operator may
select a power level appropriate to perform the desired work.






Markings




12.54

(1)


A powder actuated tool must be marked with the manufacturer's name or
trademark, model number and serial number.




(2)

A guard or accessory for use with a powder actuated tool must be
marked with the manufacturer's name or trademark.






Storage




12.55

(1)


When not in use, a powder actuated tool must be unloaded and the tool
and power loads must be securely stored and be accessible only to
qualified and authorized persons.




(2)

Power loads of different power levels and types must be kept in
different compartments or containers.






Tool use




12.56

(1)


Only a qualified person may handle or use a powder actuated tool or
power loads.




(2)

The operator must have immediately available when using or servicing a
powder actuated tool




(a)

a copy of the manufacturer's operating instructions for the tool,




(b)

a copy of the power load and fastener charts for the tool, and




(c)

any accessories or tools needed for use or field servicing of the
tool, including personal protective equipment.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 17 (b).]




(4)

A powder actuated tool must not be used in an explosive or flammable
atmosphere.




(5)

A powder actuated tool may only be loaded when it is being prepared
for immediate use, and must be unloaded at once if work is interrupted
after loading.




(6)

A powder actuated tool must not be pointed at any person.




(7)

If a powder actuated tool misfires, the operator must hold the tool
firmly against the work surface for at least 5 seconds, then
follow the manufacturer's instructions for such occurrences, and until
the cartridge has been ejected, keep the tool pointed in a direction
which will not cause injury to any person.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 17.]





Limitations on use




12.57

(1)


A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven into very hard or
brittle materials, such as cast iron, glazed tile, hardened steel,
glass block, natural rock, hollow tile, and most brick.




(2)

A powder actuated tool fastener may only be driven into easily
penetrated or thin materials or materials of unknown resistance if the
receiving material is backed by a material that will prevent the
fastener from passing completely through.




(3)

A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven into steel within
13 mm (1/2 in) of an edge, or within 5 cm (2 in) of a weld except for
special applications permitted by the tool manufacturer.




(4)

Except for special applications recommended by the manufacturer, a
powder actuated tool fastener may not be driven into masonry materials




(a)

within 7.5 cm (3 in) of an unsupported edge with a low velocity tool,
or




(b)

within 15 cm (6 in) of an unsupported edge with a medium or high
velocity tool.




(5)

A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven




(a)

into concrete unless material thickness is at least 3 times the
fastener shank penetration,




(b)

into any spalled area, or




(c)

through existing holes unless a specific guide means, as recommended
and supplied by the tool manufacturer, is used to assure positive
alignment.




Woodworking Tools and Equipment





Hand feeding




12.58


A template, jig, or pushstick must be used if there is a risk of
injury to a worker's hands when feeding woodworking machinery.






Removing guards




12.59

(1)


If the use of a guard on woodworking machinery is clearly
impracticable for a specific operation, the guard may be removed, but
an appropriate pushstick, jig, feather board or similar device must be
used to prevent the operator encroaching into the cutting area, and
upon completion of the operation the guard must be replaced.




(2)

A guard may otherwise only be removed if the guard itself creates a
hazard, or if its removal is necessary for maintenance.






Kickback fingers, splitters and spreaders




12.60

(1)


If a hand-fed circular saw is used for ripping wood, or is used for
any other purpose where there is a risk of kickback, the circular saw
must have




(a)

anti-kickback fingers and a splitter or spreader designed to prevent
kickback, or




(b)

a riving knife designed to prevent kickback.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply when the circular saw is used for
grooving, dadoing or rabbeting.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. A, s. 1.]





Radial arm saw travel limits




12.61


The cutting table and the saw travel stop on a radial arm saw must be
designed and maintained so that no part of the saw blade can travel
past the forward edge of the cutting table.






Jointers




12.62


A hand-fed wood jointer must have a self adjusting guard over the
cutting head on the working side and a guard over the portion of the
cutting head behind the fence.






Sanding machines




12.63

(1)


The revolving drums, pulleys, nip points, and unused runs of a sanding
belt of a sanding machine must be effectively guarded.




(2)

Guards must be arranged so that only the portion of the belt necessary
for the operation is exposed.






Tenoning machines




12.64


A hand-fed tenoning machine must have a device which holds the
material being cut.






Hand-held circular saws




12.65


A hand-held circular saw must have a guard which automatically adjusts
to the thickness of the material being cut, and which, when the saw is
withdrawn from the material, completely covers the cutting area of the
blade.






Cutting heads




12.66

(1)


A cutting head on a woodworking tool or piece of equipment such as a
router, a shaper or a sticker must be properly adjusted and secured.




(2)

If two or more knives are used in one head, they must be balanced.




(3)

A cutting head protective hood fitted on woodworking equipment must be
strong enough to contain fragments which result from failure of
cutting head components.




(4)

A small hand-held router using a one piece cutting bit is exempt from
the requirements of subsection (3).






Band saws




12.67

(1)


A band saw blade must be enclosed or guarded, except for the working
side of the blade between the guide rolls and the table.




(2)

A band saw wheel must be fully encased.




Mobile Chippers





Hand-fed chippers




12.68


A hand-fed mobile chipper must have a barrier or baffle installed on
the feed side of the rotor to prevent the ejection of chipped
material.






Self-feeding chippers




12.69


A self-feeding chipper must have a table or apron extending at least
1.5 m (5 ft) back from the rotor with sides sufficiently
high to prevent a worker from reaching in and contacting the rotating
knife.






Driven-feed chippers




12.70

(1)


A driven-feed chipper must have




(a)

a feed table that meets both of the following requirements:




(i)

the feed table, including the drop-down extension, if any, must extend
at least 150 cm (59 in) from the nip point of the feed rollers;




(ii)

the total distance from the nip point of the feed rollers to the
ground must be at least 210 cm (82 in), as measured along the centre
line of the feed table to the lip of the feed table and then
vertically from the lip of the feed table to the ground,




(b)

side walls on the feed table, including any drop-down extension, and
on the guard chute that are of sufficient height to prevent a worker
who is standing on the ground from reaching the feed rollers, and




(c)

a feed control bar that is




(i)

located across the top and close to the feed end of the guard chute,
and




(ii)

designed so that a worker endangered by the feed rollers is able to
stop or reverse the feed rollers both by




(A)

pushing the feed control bar to its forward travel limit, and




(B)

pulling the feed control bar to its rearward travel limit.




(2)

No part of a person's body may be on the feed table or in the guard
chute unless




(a)

the feed rollers have stopped, and




(b)

the motor of the driven-feed chipper is turned off and locked out.




(3)

Despite subsection (1), a driven-feed chipper that is in use in
British Columbia before February 1, 2012 may continue to be used if




(a)

the driven-feed chipper meets the requirements of subsection (1) (a)
and (b),




(b)

the feed control bar meets the requirements of subsection (1) (c) (i),
and




(c)

the feed control bar is designed so that a worker endangered by the
feed rollers is able to stop or reverse the feed rollers by at least
one of the means set out in subsection (1) (c) (ii).

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. E, s. 1.]





Vertically fed chippers




12.71


On a mobile chipper which gravity feeds material through a vertical
hopper to the rotor, the sides of the hopper must be of a depth which
prevents the operator from reaching in so as to contact the rotor, but
which, in no case, is less than 90 cm (3 ft) measured from the
top edge of the hopper to the periphery of the rotor.




Chain Saws





Standards




12.72

(1)


A chain saw must meet the requirements of
CSA Standard Z62.1-95, Chain Saws
.




(2)

A chain saw must have a chain brake that activates automatically upon
kickback regardless of the position of the power head or operator's
hands.




(3)

A chain saw manufactured before January 1, 1999, with a guide bar
exceeding 66 cm (26 in.), measured from the top of the cutters at the
bar tip to the point of the "dogs" or "bumper spikes", is exempt from
the requirement for a chain brake.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.]





Stopping chain movement




12.73


A chain saw chain must be stopped before the saw operator moves from
cut to cut, unless the next cut is in the immediate area and the saw
operator can safely move to the next cutting position.




Automotive Lifts and Other Vehicle Supports





Standards




12.74

(1)


An automotive lift must meet the requirements of

ANSI Standard ANSI/ALI ALCTV-1998, American National Standard for
Automotive Lifts — Safety Requirements for Construction, Testing and
Validation

.




(2)

The operation, inspection and maintenance of an automotive lift must
meet the requirements of

ANSI Standard ANSI/ALI ALOIM-2000, American National Standard for
Automotive Lifts — Safety Requirements for Operation, Inspection and
Maintenance

.




(3)

Portable automotive lifting devices and vehicle supports must meet the
requirements of the applicable section of

ANSI Standard ASME PALD-2003, Safety Standard for Portable
Automotive Lifting Devices

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 1.]





Assembly and installation




12.75


An automotive lift, portable automotive lifting device or other
vehicle support must be assembled and installed by qualified
personnel.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. B, s. 18; 17/2006, s. 2.]






Operation




12.76


Operation, inspection, repair, maintenance and modification of an
automotive lift, portable automotive lifting device or other vehicle
support must be carried out according to the manufacturer's
instructions or the written instructions of a professional engineer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 3.]





Records




12.77


The employer must keep a maintenance, inspection, modification and
repair record for each automotive lift.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 4.]





Inspection and testing




12.78


An automotive lift must be inspected and tested monthly in a manner
acceptable to the Board, unless the manufacturer requires more
frequent inspection and testing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 5.]





Rated capacity




12.79

(1)


The rated capacity must be marked on each automotive lift, portable
automotive lifting device or other vehicle support and must not be
exceeded.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 3 (c).]




(3)

If the rated capacity of a device listed in subsection (1) is
dependent on the concurrent use of 2 or more devices, the number of
devices required to achieve the rated capacity must be clearly marked
on the devices.


[am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. C, s. 3; 17/2006, s. 6.]






Controls




12.80


The control for an automotive lift must require continuous pressure by
the operator when raising or lowering the unit, and the control must
return to the neutral position when released.






Vehicle restraint




12.80.1


Before a runway type automotive lift is used,




(a)

manual wheel chocks must be used as the primary means to restrain the
vehicle from movement, and




(b)

automatic or fixed stops, or a combination of them, must be provided
and used as a secondary means to prevent the vehicle from
inadvertently rolling off either end of the runway.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 7.]





Swing-arm restraint




12.80.2

(1)


An automotive lift that has swing arms must have swing-arm pivot
restraints if




(a)

no part of the rigid superstructure is under the raised vehicle, or




(b)

the lift has 2 or more superstructures and the clearance between the
rigid parts of the superstructures on each side of the vehicle is
1.3 m (51 in.) or more.




(2)

Swing-arm pivot restraints required under subsection (1) must be
designed and maintained to prevent unintentional removal or
disengagement of the swing-arm pivot restraints when a vehicle is
being supported by the automotive lift.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. I.]



Miscellaneous Equipment





Tumblers




12.81


A tumbler drum must be guarded or enclosed, and any access door in a
guard or enclosure must have interlocks which prevent the access door
from being opened while the drum is rotating, and the drum from
operating while the access door is open.






Pneumatic nailing and stapling tools




12.82

(1)


A hand held pneumatic nailing or stapling tool capable of driving
fasteners larger than 1.2 mm (0.05 in. or 18 gauge ASWG) must not
activate unless the operator performs 2 actions, one of which is to
place the tool against a work surface.




(2)

The trigger of a pneumatic nailing or stapling tool must not be taped
or otherwise secured in the "on" position, or held in the "on"
position while moving between operations.




(3)

The air supply to a pneumatic nailing or stapling tool must be
disconnected before adjusting or servicing the tool.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 19.]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 19.]





Industrial robots




12.83


An industrial robot or robot system must be installed, safeguarded,
maintained, tested and started, used, programmed and workers trained
to meet the requirements of




(a)


CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z434-94, Industrial Robots and Robot Systems —
General Safety Requirements

, or




(b)


ANSI Standard ANSI/RIA R15.06-1992, American National Standard
Industrial Robots and Robot Systems — Safety Requirements.





(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 18 (c).]

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 18.]





Chassis dynamometers — motor vehicle testing




12.83.1

(1)


In this section:



"guard screen"

means a screen manufactured from shock-absorbing material and designed
to prevent any material striking the screen from ricocheting;



"motor vehicle"

means a wheeled vehicle that is propelled by motorized or electric
power, but does not include a vehicle that is designed to be used on
rails or tracks.




(2)

Only a qualified worker may




(a)

test a motor vehicle on a chassis dynamometer, or




(b)

operate a motor vehicle, chassis dynamometer or other test equipment
for the purpose of testing a motor vehicle on a chassis dynamometer.




(3)

Before a motor vehicle is tested on a chassis dynamometer, the wheels
and tires of the motor vehicle must be inspected by a qualified
worker.




(4)

A motor vehicle must not be tested on a chassis dynamometer if any of
the following apply:




(a)

the tires on the motor vehicle contain rocks, stones or other foreign
material embedded in the tire treads;




(b)

the tires on the motor vehicle are studded;




(c)

the wheels or tires on the motor vehicle are incapable of operating
safely at the speeds to be reached during testing;




(d)

the wheels or tires on the motor vehicle bounce during testing in a
manner that is likely to cause the motor vehicle to move laterally off
the rolls;




(e)

the motor vehicle is likely, without continuous corrective steering,
to move laterally off the rolls during testing.




(5)

The following safety measures must be taken when testing a motor
vehicle on a chassis dynamometer:




(a)

the chassis dynamometer must be equipped with front-mounted idler
safety rolls unless the motor vehicle is chained or otherwise secured
to anchor points to prevent runaways;




(b)

wheel chocks must be used to block the non-driving wheels to prevent
runaways;




(c)

in the case of a motor vehicle with front-wheel drive, the motor
vehicle must be prevented from moving laterally during testing;




(d)

guard screens of a size that is appropriate for the motor vehicle must
be positioned behind the rear of the motor vehicle to block any
materials that may be ejected from or by the wheels or tires;




(e)

the exposed portions of the moving rolls of the chassis dynamometer
must be fitted with adequate guards while the rolls are in motion
during testing;




(f)

exhaust gases from the motor vehicle must be removed from the work
area.

[en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. H.]



Drilling Rock or Similar Materials





General requirement




12.84


The employer must ensure that before drilling




(a)

the back, face and sides of the work area have been scaled and
stabilized,




(b)

the working face and surrounding area have been thoroughly washed, and




(c)

remnants of holes have been inspected for explosives and distinctively
marked.






Drilling equipment




12.85


The employer must ensure that




(a)

a rock drill is not used unless equipped with a water jet or other
device capable of suppressing rock dust, and




(b)

adequate restraining devices are installed on hose connections under
pressure, if inadvertent disconnection could endanger workers.






Control location




12.86


Operating controls must not be installed on the feed slide of a
top-hammer percussion drill.






Boom hazard




12.87


A worker must not proceed beyond the front of the drill controls of a
drill jumbo if the drills are in operation, unless the drilling
equipment is specifically designed and certified for that purpose.






Drill jumbos




12.88

(1)


A drill jumbo that contains decks must be




(a)

fitted with guardrails and toeboards, meeting the requirements of Part
4 (General Conditions), around the upper decks,




(b)

equipped with a rack or receptacle for securely storing drill rods and
other equipment,




(c)

provided with safe access to each working level,




(d)

provided with a visual warning system to warn workers located below
the upper decks, before a worker above collars a hole or removes the
boom stabilizer from the face after finishing a hole, and




(e)

securely fixed in position at the face to prevent inadvertent movement
during drilling operations.




(2)

Explosives must not be brought onto or under a drill jumbo during a
drilling operation, nor may holes be loaded until drilling is
complete.






Drilling procedures




12.89


A driller must ensure that




(a)

the cut is not drilled in the same location as the previous round,




(b)

holes are not drilled within 15 cm (6 in) of any part of a bootleg as
defined in section 21.1, and




(c)

there is no drilling at a face when a hole is loaded or being loaded
with explosives except in conformity with the requirements on drilling
to refire a misfire, as specified in Part 21 (Blasting Operations).

[am. B.C. Reg. 207/2021, App. A, s. 1.]





Rod handling




12.90

(1)


A drill operator working without a helper must not manually add or
remove drill steel or a drill bit, or service drilling equipment,
while the drill is rotating under power.




(2)

A worker assisting the drill operator with drill bit or drill steel
handling must remain clear of rotating parts of the drill system.




(3)

Except as provided in subsection (4), a boom-mounted percussion drill
being used with multiple lengths of coupled drill steel must have a
rod changer or other effective device installed and used to add or
remove drill steel.




(4)

If it is not practicable to fit a rod changer to a boom-mounted
percussion drill, adequate written safe work procedures for adding and
removing drill steel must be available, and the drill must be operated
in accordance with those procedures.






Self-propelled rock drills




12.91


A self-propelled rock drill without a ROPS




(a)

must have controls for machine travel that allow the operator to
access the controls




(i)

while standing on the upslope side of the machine, or




(ii)

from a position off the machine and upslope from it, and




(b)

may only be moved under its own power if the operator is in a position
referred to in paragraph (a) (i) or (ii), so that the operator is
already off the machine or in a position to safely step off the
machine should it roll or slide downhill.

[en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 7.]





Cleaning drilled holes




12.92


If a drilled hole is being cleaned using an air or water pressure
blowpipe, the operator must ensure that everyone is clear of the area
made hazardous by blowback.




Breaking and Melting Metal





Breaking metal




12.93


An effective guard or barrier must be installed to protect workers
from flying metal fragments if a drop weight or other impact device is
used to break castings or other metal.






Inspection of linings




12.94


A furnace, crucible, ladle, mould or other equipment for handling or
containing molten metal must be inspected at regular intervals to
determine the condition of the lining, and if any abnormal
deterioration is observed the equipment must be removed from service
without delay.






Preventing eruptions




12.95


All practicable means must be used to prevent eruptions caused by
moisture in furnaces, ladles, crucibles, molds and other equipment
containing molten metal.






Inspection of materials




12.96

(1)


Material to be put in a melting furnace must be carefully inspected to
ensure that a cylinder, tank or similar closed vessel of any
description is not placed in the furnace.




(2)

Before being exposed to the intense heat of a furnace, a closed vessel
must be cut open to eliminate the explosion hazard, but must not be
cut open using a method involving the application of heat or flame.




(3)

If a worker must be situated near an open furnace during charging
operations, the material to be melted must be carefully examined and,
if necessary, must be sufficiently preheated to ensure that moisture
and foreign substances are eliminated.




(4)

Preheating must be done under controlled circumstances to ensure that
no worker is endangered by the process.




Abrasive Blasting and High Pressure Washing





Definitions




12.97


In sections 12.97 to 12.111:


"cabinet"
means an enclosure designed to permit abrasive blasting, high pressure
washing or a similar operation to be conducted safely inside the
enclosure by a worker who is outside the enclosure;


"enclosure"
means a temporary or permanent enclosure of a work area provided with
exhaust ventilation and makeup air to reduce exposure of workers
inside the enclosure and prevent the uncontrolled release of air
contaminants from the enclosure;



"high pressure washing"

or
"jetting"
means the use of water or other liquid delivered from a pump at a
pressure exceeding 34 MPa (5 000 psi), with or without the
addition of solid particles, to remove unwanted matter from a surface
or to penetrate into the surface of a material for the purpose of
cutting that material.






Risk assessment




12.98


The employer must ensure that a risk assessment is done before any
abrasive blasting activity, high pressure washing process, or related
cleanup is started which may cause release of a harmful level of an
air contaminant from a surface or coating containing a toxic heavy
metal or asbestos.






Work procedures outside a cabinet




12.99


If abrasive blasting, high pressure washing or a similar operation is
conducted by a worker outside a cabinet, written safe work procedures
addressing the hazards and necessary controls must be prepared and
implemented by the employer.






Substitution




12.100


Abrasive blasting materials containing crystalline silica must be
replaced with less toxic materials, when practicable.






Reuse prohibition




12.101

(1)


An abrasive material must not be reused if it




(a)

contains crystalline silica, or




(b)

becomes contaminated with any harmful impurities including metals such
as lead, chromium, nickel or mercury.




(2)

The requirements of subsection (1) do not apply to a fully enclosed,
vented cabinet designed to recirculate the abrasive material.






Cleanup




12.102

(1)


Used abrasive blasting materials which contain a substance designated
under section 5.57 must be removed from the work area by using
effective procedures designed to minimize the generation of airborne
dust, and suitable personal protective equipment.




(2)

Removal under subsection (1) must take place by the end of each shift
unless




(a)

a risk assessment establishes that the risks from removal will exceed
the risks from leaving the materials in place,




(b)

no workers will be exposed to the materials before removal occurs, or




(c)

the materials cannot be separated from the environment in which the
abrasive blasting takes place.




(3)

If removal is delayed pursuant to subsection (2), the employer must
assess the risks arising from delaying the removal and develop safe
work procedures.




(4)

The work procedures developed under subsection (3) must be in writing.

[en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 8.]





Engineering controls




12.103


Engineering controls such as an enclosure or local exhaust ventilation
with dust collection must be used to maintain airborne contaminant
levels below exposure limits, where practicable.






Exhaust ventilation




12.104

(1)


When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted within a
structure, the process must be isolated in a separate, properly
ventilated enclosure or cabinet to minimize worker exposure to air
contaminants generated by the process.




(2)

When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted inside an
enclosure or cabinet, the enclosure or cabinet must have exhaust
ventilation that




(a)

maintains air pressure below the air pressure outside the enclosure or
cabinet, so as to prevent the escape of air contaminants from the
enclosure or cabinet to other work areas, and




(b)

minimizes worker exposure inside the enclosure.






Restricted work zones




12.105

(1)


When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted outside a
structure, the process must be restricted to a work zone which is
identified by signs or similar means as being a contaminated area.




(2)

Only properly protected workers who are necessary to perform the work
are permitted inside an enclosure or a restricted work zone where
abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted.






Operating controls




12.106

(1)


The operating controls for a sandblasting machine or jetting gun must
be




(a)

located near the nozzle in a position where the operator's hands will
be when using the device,




(b)

the continuous pressure type that immediately stops the flow of
material when released, and




(c)

protected from inadvertent activation.




(2)

Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to sandblasting machines or jetting
guns used in operations where hand operated controls are clearly
impracticable, in which case the operator must use a foot operated
control or equivalent safety device, both of a design acceptable to
the Board.

[en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 9.]





Repealed




12.107


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 20.]






Jetting gun




12.108


A jetting gun must not be modified except as authorized by the
manufacturer.






Holding work




12.109


A worker must not hand hold an object while it is being cleaned or cut
by a jetting gun.






Hose restraint




12.110


High pressure hoses, pipes, and fittings must be supported to prevent
excessive sway and movement.






Personal protective equipment




12.111

(1)


A nozzle or jetting gun operator must wear personal protective
clothing and equipment on the body, hands, arms, legs and feet,
including the metatarsal area, made of canvas, leather or other
material which will protect the worker's skin from injury in the event
of contact with the flow from the nozzle.




(2)

Unless the process is isolated from the operator in a separate
cabinet, a suitable respirator must be provided and worn whenever
abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 13.]



Welding, Cutting and Allied Processes





Standards




12.112


Welding, cutting and similar processes must be carried out according
to the requirements of

CSA Standard W117.2-94, Safety in Welding, Cutting, and Allied
Processes

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 21.]





Repealed




12.113


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 5.]






Ventilation




12.114


Effective local exhaust ventilation must be used at any fixed work
station to minimize worker exposure to harmful air contaminants
produced by welding, burning or soldering.






Coatings on metals




12.115


A coating on metal which could emit harmful contaminants (such as
lead, chromium, organic materials, or toxic combustion products) must
be removed from the base metal, whenever practicable, before welding
or cutting begins.






Flammable and explosive substances




12.116

(1)


A container which may have held a combustible substance must be
thoroughly cleaned before any welding or burning operation is carried
out on the container.




(2)

Burning, welding or other hot work must not be done on any vessel,
tank, pipe or structure, or in any place where the presence of a
flammable or explosive substance is likely until




(a)

tests have been made by a qualified person to ensure the work may be
safely performed, and




(b)

suitable safe work procedures have been adopted, including additional
tests made at intervals that will ensure the continuing safety of the
workers.






Silver solder




12.117


Silver solder containing cadmium must not be used without prior
written approval from the Board.






Correct equipment




12.118


Welding equipment, including regulators, automatic reducing valves and
hoses, must be used only for the gas for which it is designed.






Equipment inspection




12.119


Before using gas welding or burning equipment, the operator must
ensure that the equipment is free from defects, leaks, oil and grease.






Flashback prevention




12.120


Suitable safety devices to prevent reverse gas flow and to arrest a
flashback must be installed on each hose in an oxyfuel system, between
the torch and the regulator.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 22.]





Receptacles for stubs




12.121


Receptacles for electrode stubs must be provided and used.






Radiation protection




12.122

(1)


Arc welding must not be carried out unless workers who may be exposed
to radiation from the arc flash are protected by adequate screens,
curtains or partitions or wear suitable eye protection.




(2)

A screen, curtain or partition near an arc welding operation must be
made of or be treated with a flame resistant material or coating, and
must have a nonreflective surface finish.






Protective clothing and equipment




12.123


A worker involved in welding or burning operations must wear




(a)

flame resistant work clothing,




(b)

gauntlet gloves of leather or other suitable material and arm
protection,




(c)

an apron of leather or other suitable material for heavy work,




(d)

eye and face protection against harmful radiation, particles of molten
metal, and while chipping and grinding welds, and




(e)

substantial safety footwear made of leather or other suitable
material.






Respiratory protection




12.124


A respirator must be provided and worn if an effective means of
natural, mechanical or local exhaust ventilation is not practicable




(a)

during short duration welding, burning or similar operations, and




(b)

during emergency work.


[en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 10; am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s.
14.]






Marking hot work




12.125


Recently welded or flame cut work must be marked "HOT" or effectively
guarded to prevent contact by a worker, if a worker not directly
involved in the hot work is likely to enter the work area.






Fire extinguishers




12.126

(1)


At least one fire extinguisher of a suitable type and capacity must be
immediately available at a work location where welding or cutting is
done.




(2)

Fire extinguisher locations must be marked and made known to workers.




Painting, Coating and Work with Plastics and Resins





Application




12.127


Sections 12.128 to 12.141 apply to a workplace in which there is
spraying or use of a paint or similar coating, a fibre reinforced
resin, a thermoplastic material, an expandable resin foam, or other
similar materials.






Substitution




12.128

(1)


An employer must ensure that a less hazardous substance or work
process is substituted for a higher hazard substance or process,
whenever practicable.




(2)

The employer must ensure that a substitute for a paint containing
toxic heavy metal components is used if an alternative product exists.






Restrictions




12.129

(1)


A toxic (WHMIS D1 or D2) or flammable chemical or chlorofluorocarbon
must not be used as a propellant in spraying operations.




(2)

Spraying a flammable or other hazardous product is prohibited within a
general work area, unless effective controls have been installed to
control the fire, explosion and toxicity hazards.




(3)

When practicable, a coating must not be applied to a material about to
be welded.






Warning signs




12.130


A work area or enclosure where hazardous materials are handled or used
must be posted with suitable signs or placards warning workers of the
hazards within the identified restricted access area and stating the
precautions for entry into the area.






Enclosure




12.131


When practicable, a ventilated spray booth or other enclosure designed
to control worker exposure must be used during




(a)

any operation or process which involves spraying a paint or resin,




(b)

lay-up or moulding of reinforced plastic, or




(c)

any application of a paint, coating or insulation containing a
sensitizer such as an isocyanate compound, or similar operations using
very toxic materials.






Air flow




12.132

(1)


The air velocity through a horizontal flow spray booth, a vertical
flow, down-draft booth or other enclosure required by
section 12.131 must be at least




(a)

50 cm/s (100 fpm) if the cross-sectional area is 14 m
2
(150 ft
2
) or less, and




(b)

25 cm/s (50 fpm) if the cross-sectional area is greater than 14 m
2
(150 ft
2
).




(2)

In outdoor applications of materials listed in section 12.131, an air
velocity across the work area of at least 0.25 m/s (50 fpm) must be
assured, by mechanical means if necessary, to carry vapours and
aerosols away from the breathing zone of a worker.






Control of ignition sources




12.133


A ventilation system used to control airborne contaminants must have
electrical and mechanical systems designed to control all potential
ignition sources.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 6.]





Arrester filters




12.134

(1)


A ventilation system subject to heavy concentrations of overspray from
the operation must have an arrester filter.




(2)

An arrester filter must be maintained in good operating condition and
replaced when the pressure drop across the filter exceeds the design
criteria.






Respiratory protection




12.135


Each worker who is or may be exposed to an airborne contaminant
generated by a spray operation involving a sensitizing agent referred
to in section 5.57 (1) must be provided with and wear a supplied-air
respirator.


[am. B.C. Regs. 315/2003, App. A, s. 14; 312/2010, App. G, s. 15.]






Disposal of isocyanate containers




12.136


Empty, non-returnable containers which contained isocyanates must be
decontaminated by filling them with water and allowing them to stand
for a minimum of 48 hours, without being sealed, stoppered or closed,
after which they must be pierced to prevent re-use.






Repealed




12.137


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. F, s. 3.]






Airless spray equipment




12.138


An airless spray gun must have




(a)

a means to electrically bond the gun to the paint reservoir and pump,




(b)

a guard that will protect against trigger activation if the gun is
dropped, and




(c)

the trigger function configured to require two distinct operations by
the user to activate the release of paint or fluid through the nozzle,
or a safety device which prevents the nozzle tip from coming into
contact with a worker.






Design for high pressure




12.139


An airless spray gun, hose, fitting and pressure vessel must be
designed and constructed to withstand the pressure involved.






Heating plastics




12.140


Emissions from operations involved in heating plastics to temperatures
which may release thermal decomposition products must be removed from
the workplace by local exhaust ventilation when there is a risk of
harm to a worker from exposure to these emissions.






Resin foams




12.141

(1)


A foam installation process performed indoors must be controlled or
contained so that unprotected workers are not exposed to emissions by
using an enclosure, portable local exhaust ventilation, or scheduling
arrangements.




(2)

A foam installation process performed outdoors and relying on natural
ventilation must be done in an area restricted to authorized personnel
wearing adequate personal protective equipment.




Laundry and Dry Cleaning Activities





Definitions




12.142


In sections 12.143 to 12.166:



"dry-to-dry machine"

means a system in which the washing and drying is done in a single
machine that is vented to a vapour recovery system or to the
atmosphere during the drying and deodorizing phases of the machine
cycle;



"fully enclosed refrigerated system"

means a system in which the washing and drying is done in a single
machine that is not vented to either a vapour recovery system or to
the atmosphere during the drying and deodorizing phases of the machine
cycle;



"spot cleaning"

means applying spotting solvents or solutions by hand to remove spots
or stains;



"transfer system"

means a system in which the washing and drying is done in separate
machines.




Dry Cleaning





Open cleaning prohibited




12.143


Dry cleaning in an open vessel by immersion, agitation, or spraying is
prohibited except as required for spot cleaning.






Systems and equipment




12.144

(1)


Dry cleaning systems and equipment must be designed, installed,
operated and maintained to prevent the escape of solvent.




(2)

Dry cleaning solvents may only be used in transfer, dry-to-dry, or
fully enclosed refrigerated systems designed and installed for this
purpose.

[am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 23.]





Equipment labels




12.145


A dry cleaning machine must have a label specifying the chemical name
of the solvent it has been designed to use.






Solvent handling




12.146


Dry cleaning solvents and additives must be stored and handled in a
manner that minimizes evaporation and spillage.






Bulk storage




12.147


A dry cleaning solvent bulk storage tank located inside a building
must be effectively vented to the outdoors.






Machine ventilation




12.148

(1)


A transfer, dry-to-dry, or fully enclosed refrigerated system must
have an effective exhaust ventilation system which operates whenever
the loading door is open to create an airflow into the door opening of
at least 50 cm/sec (100 fpm) averaged across the face of the
opening, and which maintains the concentration of solvent vapour in
the workplace below the applicable exposure limits.




(2)

A fully enclosed refrigerated system is exempt from the requirements
of subsection (1) if workers are not exposed to levels of solvent
vapours above 50% of the applicable exposure limits.






General ventilation




12.149


A dry cleaning area must have adequate general ventilation to maintain
the concentration of evaporated solvents below the applicable exposure
limits.






Inspection and repair




12.150


Dry cleaning equipment must be regularly inspected for liquid and
vapour leaks, and any leaks must be repaired promptly.






Open flame heaters




12.151


An open flame heating apparatus must not be located in the same work
area as a dry cleaning machine and must have corrosion-resistant flue
and draft hoods to conduct products of combustion to the outdoors.






Combustion air supply




12.152


A flame heating apparatus must not obtain combustion air from areas
subject to contamination with dry cleaning solvent vapours.






Vents




12.153


A vent pipe and duct which carries solvent vapour from a dry cleaning
process, solvent recovery equipment or dry cleaning work area must




(a)

have vapour-proof joints,




(b)

discharge to the outside atmosphere at least 1.8 m (6 ft)
above the roof peak and at least 3 m (10 ft) from any door,
window or other building opening, and




(c)

not discharge into any flue used for combustion products, nor into any
building ventilation duct.






Servicing and maintenance




12.154

(1)


A worker who may be exposed to dry cleaning solvent liquid or vapour
during equipment servicing such as changing solvent filters, must wear
appropriate personal protective equipment to prevent inhalation and
skin contact.




(2)

A filter or filter material that has been used in a dry cleaning
system must be placed in a metal container with a tight fitting lid
and stored in a well ventilated area.






Emergency ventilation




12.155

(1)


Supplemental floor level emergency ventilation equipment must be
available within 4.6 m (15 ft) of the dry cleaning equipment
for use in the event of a spill, leak or accidental release of solvent
liquid or solvent vapour.




(2)

Supplemental ventilating equipment must be capable of changing the air
in the dry cleaning area every 5 minutes (12 room-air changes per
hour).




(3)

The control switch for supplemental ventilation equipment must be
readily accessible in an emergency, and must be clearly identified by
signs or similar means.






Spotting chemicals




12.156

(1)


A work surface where spot cleaning is done must be designed to contain
spills and minimize exposure.




(2)

Spotting chemicals must be kept in containers which will prevent skin
contact, and appropriate skin protection must be used when spot
cleaning is done.






Supplier responsibility




12.157


When articles are sent for processing to a laundry or dry cleaning
facility, the employer sending the articles must advise the operator
of the facility, in writing, of




(a)

the identity of any materials contained with the articles which could
pose a hazard to workers handling the articles,




(b)

the nature of any hazard that may arise from the materials, and




(c)

general precautionary measures to be followed when handling the
materials.






Operator responsibility




12.158


If articles to be processed may contain materials such as hazardous
biological or chemical contaminants, sharp objects, or other materials
which would pose a hazard to workers handling the articles, the
operator of a laundry or dry cleaning establishment must




(a)

determine the nature of any hazard to workers,




(b)

develop effective written safe work procedures to minimize the risk of
injury and disease, and




(c)

ensure that workers are adequately instructed and directed to follow
the safe work procedures.




Laundry Equipment





Flatwork ironers




12.159


Feed-rolls for a flatwork ironer must have a front mounted trip bar
designed to stop the machine on contact, or a fixed guard that will
prevent the operator's hands from entering the rolls.






Roller-type ironers




12.160

(1)


A roller-type ironer must have a front mounted fixed guard, designed
to prevent the operator's hands from entering the rolls.




(2)

The hot roll must be guarded to prevent contact by workers.






Press-type ironers




12.161

(1)


A press-type ironer must have an automatic device to prevent the
application of injurious pressure when the operator's fingers are
between the bed and the pressure-head, or have a device which requires
both of the operator's hands to be removed from the danger zone when
the machine is tripped.




(2)

Hand controls must be well recessed or effectively shrouded to prevent
inadvertent activation, require concurrent use of both the operator's
hands, and require both controls to be released before another machine
cycle can be initiated.




(3)

Pads and covers must not be of a type that will allow the garment or
fabric to slip off the buck easily, with or without vacuuming.






Interlocks




12.162


Drum-type washing machines and dryers must have devices which prevent
the drum from operating while the door is open.






Centrifugal extractors




12.163


A centrifugal extractor must have devices to prevent power being
applied before the cover is closed and to prevent the cover being
opened while the basket is in motion.






Laundry chutes




12.164


A laundry chute must discharge into an unoccupied area, or have
baffles or other equally effective means to prevent laundry coming out
of the chute from striking workers.






Laundry carts




12.165


A laundry cart must be maintained in good mechanical condition and
free of sharp corners, edges, or splintered wood.






Spillage




12.166


Curbs or other effective means must be provided to contain any liquid
spilled from a washing machine, dry cleaning machine or associated
equipment.




Rail Car Movement





Application




12.167


Sections 12.168 to 12.172 apply to movement of rail cars except those
on a federally or otherwise provincially regulated railway.






General requirements




12.168

(1)


Written safe work procedures must be developed and made available to
all workers involved in moving, loading or unloading railway cars.




(2)

Equipment used to move railway cars must be adequately designed and
have the capacity to control railway car speed and direction at all
times.




(3)

Proper, designated attachment points on railway cars must be used to
move railway cars.




(4)

Railway cars being loaded on a siding must be protected against
unexpected movement by other rail traffic on the siding by the "Blue
Flag Rule" as specified in the
Canadian Rail Operating Rules.




(5)

Before a railway car is coupled or moved the load must be properly
secured and all vehicles and equipment used to load or unload the car
must be in the clear.




(6)

Derails must be installed and used




(a)

where it is possible for railway cars to move freely and to foul other
tracks or create other hazards, and




(b)

where required by the

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, 1992

(Canada).






Clearance




12.169


The employer must identify clearances that are less than the standard
clearance with restricted clearance signs as specified in the
Canadian Rail Operating Rules.






Riding restriction




12.170


If less than standard clearance exists, as specified in the
Canadian Rail Operating Rules,
workers must not ride on the top or sides of railway equipment.






Brakes




12.171

(1)


Railway cars on a siding must have an adequate number of hand brakes
set to prevent inadvertent movement.




(2)

Railway car air brake systems must not be used on a private siding
unless authorized by the Engineering and Inspection Branch of the
Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing.






Tracks




12.172

(1)


All dead end tracks located in areas where workers are required to be
must have a means to prevent rail mounted equipment from travelling
off the end of the tracks.




(2)

All tracks on private sidings must be maintained to standards which
permit the safe transit of all rail mounted equipment using the
tracks.




Pressure Vessels





Pressure relief device — when required




12.173

(1)


In this section
"pressure vessel"
has the same meaning as in the Power Engineers, Boiler, Pressure
Vessel and Refrigeration Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 104/2004.




(2)

A pressure vessel must have a pressure relief device that is set to
discharge at 103 kPa (15 psi) or less, if the pressure vessel




(a)

is connected to a production facility, compressor station or other
pressure source, and




(b)

is not directly open to the atmosphere.




(3)

Subsection (2) does not apply to a pressure vessel if




(a)

the pressure vessel is subject to the Power Engineers, Boiler,
Pressure Vessel and Refrigeration Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg.
104/2004, or




(b)

the manufacturer of the pressure vessel or a professional engineer
indicates in writing that




(i)

the pressure vessel will not operate in accordance with its engineered
design if the vessel has a pressure relief device that is set to
discharge at 103 kPa (15 psi), and




(ii)

the pressure vessel can be operated safely without a pressure relief
device or with a pressure relief device that is set to discharge at
greater than 103 kPa (15 psi).




(4)

A pressurized system, including any lines running from the output side
of a pressure relief device that may be subject to accidental
restriction, must be protected by a pressure relief device.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. B, s. 2.]





Pressure relief device — installation




12.174

(1)


In this section
"pressure relief device"
means a pressure relief device referred to in section 12.173.




(2)

A pressure relief device must




(a)

have a flow capacity that is not less than the flow capacity of the
pressure source, and




(b)

be set to discharge at not more than the pressure rating of the
component in the pressurized system with the lowest pressure rating.




(3)

Any fluid or material discharged through a pressure relief device must
be piped to a place where it will not endanger workers.




(4)

The diameter of piping connected to the pressure side and the
discharge side of a pressure relief device must not be smaller than
the diameter of the openings to the device.




(5)

The piping on the discharge side of a pressure relief device must be




(a)

secured to prevent movement, and




(b)

sloped to drain fluids away from the pressure relief device if
freezing could restrict the fluid flow.




(6)

A valve must not be installed in the discharge opening of a pressure
relief device, or the device's discharge pipe, unless required by
engineering design.




(7)

A pressure relief device that requires block valves by engineering
design must have the block valves locked in the appropriate position.




(8)

A guard must be installed around the shear pin and spindle of a
pressure relief device.

[en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. B, s. 2.]



Roll-on/Roll-off Containers





Definitions




12.175


In sections 12.176 to 12.183:



"container safety standard"

means

ANSI Standard ANSI Z245.30-2008, American National Standard for
Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable
Materials — Waste Containers — Safety Requirements

;



"roll-on/roll-off container"

means a container that




(a)

is typically used to receive, store and transport refuse, and




(b)

is designed to be used with a vehicle equipped with hydraulic or
mechanical tilt-frame and hoist-type equipment, commonly referred to
as roll-offs or hook-lifts.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Container safety standard




12.176

(1)


A supplier of a roll-on/roll-off container manufactured on or after
February 1, 2015, must ensure that the container is designed and
manufactured in accordance with the requirements of the container
safety standard.




(2)

Employers must ensure that workers handle roll-on/roll-off containers
in accordance with the requirements of the container safety standard.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Protection against specified hazards




12.177


An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure
that persons are not exposed to the following hazards in respect of a
roll-on/roll-off container:




(a)

the rupture or disintegration, resulting from poor maintenance, of the
lifting eye, cables, anchors, latches, doors, guards, hinges or ladder
rungs;




(b)

being hit or struck by the unintended or premature discharge of any
thing or substance collected, used, stored or transported in the
container.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Visual inspection before loading container onto vehicle




12.178

(1)


Before loading a roll-on/roll-off container onto a vehicle, the driver
of the vehicle must




(a)

visually inspect the container for defects that may be a hazard, and




(b)

ensure that the container doors will not open when the container is
moved between the ground and the vehicle.




(2)

If the driver identifies a defect in a roll-on/roll-off container that
may be a hazard, the driver must immediately inform the following, as
applicable, of the defect:




(a)

the driver's employer;




(b)

if the driver has no employer, the owner of the container.


[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 116/2022, App. B,
s. 10.]






Withdrawal from service




12.179

(1)


In this section,
"notified person"
means the person notified under section 12.178 (2) that a
roll-on/roll-off container has a defect that may be a hazard.




(2)

On receiving notification under section 12.178 (2), a notified person
must




(a)

withdraw the container from service immediately, or




(b)

if it is not practical to withdraw the container from service
immediately,




(i)

arrange for the safe removal of the container to a place where it can
be unloaded, if necessary, and




(ii)

have the container repaired.




(3)

A roll-on/roll-off container that has been withdrawn from service or
repaired under this section may not be returned to service until
inspected under section 12.180.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Inspection following repair




12.180

(1)


An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure
that a roll-on/roll-off container is inspected by a qualified person
after any of the following occur:




(a)

significant structural modification or refurbishment;




(b)

significant repair of a structural component;




(c)

repairs made under section 12.179.




(2)

The qualified person must determine whether, following the
modification, refurbishment or repairs referred to in subsection (1),
the container meets the requirements of the container safety standard.




(3)

An inspection under this section must occur on or before the earlier
of the following:




(a)

30 days after the making of the modification, refurbishment or repairs
referred to in subsection (1);




(b)

the return of the container to the place where it is ordinarily stored
or located.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Periodic inspection




12.181

(1)


An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure
that a qualified person inspects, in accordance with this section,
each roll-on/roll-off container to determine if the container meets
the requirements of the container safety standard.




(2)

The first inspection of a container manufactured before February 1,
2015, or for which the date of manufacture is unknown, must occur as
follows:




(a)

if section 12.180 applies, as required by that section;




(b)

if the container has not previously been inspected under section
12.180, before August 1, 2017;




(c)

if the owner or employer, as applicable, acquires the container on or
after June 2, 2017, but has no record of it being inspected in
accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, within 60
days of acquiring it.




(3)

The first inspection of a container manufactured on or after February
1, 2015, must occur as follows:




(a)

if section 12.180 applies, as required by that section;




(b)

if a container has not previously been inspected under section 12.180,
before February 1, 2020;




(c)

if the owner or employer, as applicable, acquires the container on or
after December 3, 2019, but has no record of it being inspected in
accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, within 60
days of acquiring it.




(4)

Subsequent inspections of the container must occur within




(a)

30 months of the most recent inspection, whether made under this
section or section 12.180, or




(b)

a shorter period set by a qualified person, having regard to the
condition of the container.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Records of inspection




12.182


An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must keep a
record for each roll-on/roll-off container that includes all of the
following:




(a)

the date of each inspection made under sections 12.180 and 12.181;




(b)

details of any tests conducted, including testing methods and results;




(c)

details of any repairs made;




(d)

the date before which the next inspection must occur under section
12.181.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]





Withdrawal from service following inspection




12.183


If a qualified person determines, following an inspection under
section 12.180 or 12.181, that a roll-on/roll-off container does not
meet the container safety standard, the owner of the container, or the
employer, must withdraw the container from service




(a)

until it is repaired to meet the container safety standard, or




(b)

permanently.

[en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.]



Contents
|



Parts 1 to 3

|


Part 4
|


Part 5
|


Part 6
|


Part 7
|


Part 8
|


Part 9
|



Parts 10 to 11

|

Part 12 |

Part 13
|


Part 14
|


Part 15
|


Part 16
|



Parts 17 to 18

|


Part 19
|


Part 20
|


Part 21
|


Part 22
|


Part 23
|


Part 24
|



Parts 25 to 26

|


Part 27
|


Part 28
|



Parts 29 to 34

|



Schedules





