







B.C. Reg. 272/2006

O.C. 710/2006


Deposited October 12, 2006






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act


British Columbia Wine Grape Council Regulation






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

;


"council"
means the British Columbia Wine Grape Council established by the
minister under section 2 of the Act;



"first receiver"

means a person who receives wine grapes directly or indirectly from a
wine grape grower for processing into wine;


"levy"
means the levy referred to in section 2;



"wine grape grower"

means a person who operates a vineyard that produces wine grapes;



"wine grapes"

means grapes grown in mainland British Columbia for the purpose of
being processed into wine by a winery;


"winery"
means a winery licensed under the

Liquor Control and Licensing Act

.






Payment of levy




2

(1)


Each wine grape grower must pay to the council the levy established by
the council under section 4 (1) of the Act.




(2)

The levy is payable as follows:




(a)

in the case of wine grapes delivered to a first receiver, on the
delivery date;




(b)

in the case of wine grapes produced on the vineyard of a first
receiver and processed by the receiver in that receiver's winery, on
the date the wine grapes are moved into that winery.






Collection and remittance of levy on wine grapes delivered to first
receiver




3

(1)


Each first receiver, on behalf of the council, must collect the levy
payable under section 2 (2) (a) by deducting it from the proceeds
otherwise due to the wine grape grower for the wine grapes delivered
to the first receiver.




(2)

On or before December 31 of each year, each first receiver must remit
to the council the amount collected by the receiver under subsection
(1) during the period December 1 of the previous year to November 30
of the current year.






Remittance of levy on wine grapes grown and processed by first
receiver




4


On or before December 31 of each year, each first receiver must remit
to the council the total amount that became payable by the grower
under section 2 (2) (b) during the period December 1 of the previous
year to November 30 of the current year.






Records




5

(1)


Each person required under this regulation to remit a levy must retain
all records relating to the collection and remittance of the levy for
a period of 2 years after the deadline for remitting the levy.




(2)

Records for the purpose of subsection (1) must include the name and
address of each wine grape grower who paid the levy.




(3)

A person required under subsection (1) to retain records must make the
records available to the council on its request.



[Provisions of the

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 134, relevant to the enactment of this
regulation: section 10]



