







B.C. Reg. 367/2003

O.C. 967/2003


Deposited October 24, 2003

effective January 1, 2004





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Community Charter


Bylaw Revision Regulation






Revision of bylaws




1

(1)


A council may, by bylaw, authorize the revision of all or any of the
bylaws of the municipality.




(2)

A bylaw under subsection (1) may authorize one or more of the
following:




(a)

consolidating a bylaw by incorporating in it all amendments to the
bylaw;




(b)

omitting and providing for the repeal of a bylaw or a provision of a
bylaw that is expired, inoperative, obsolete, spent or otherwise
ineffective;




(c)

omitting, without providing for its repeal, a bylaw or a provision of
a bylaw that is of a transitional nature or that refers only to a
particular place, person or thing or that has no general application
throughout the municipality;




(d)

combining 2 or more bylaws into one, dividing a bylaw into 2 or more
bylaws, moving provisions from one bylaw to another and creating a
bylaw from provisions of one or more bylaws;




(e)

altering the citation and title of a bylaw and the numbering and
arrangement of its provisions;




(f)

adding, changing or omitting a note, heading, title, marginal note,
diagram, map, plan or example to a bylaw;




(g)

omitting the preamble and long title of a bylaw;




(h)

omitting forms or schedules contained in a bylaw that can more
conveniently be contained in a resolution, and adding to the bylaw
authority for forms or schedules to be established by resolution;




(i)

correcting clerical, grammatical and typographical errors;




(j)

making changes, without changing the substance of the bylaw, to bring
out more clearly what is considered to be the meaning of a bylaw or to
improve the expression of the law.






Revision may consolidate existing bylaws into code or other general
bylaw




2


Unless restricted by the

Community Charter

, a bylaw under section 1 may authorize a revision to consolidate and
revise bylaw provisions respecting any or all matters within the
jurisdiction of the municipality into a general bylaw.






Bylaw required to adopt revision




3

(1)


In order to be effective, a revised bylaw must be adopted by bylaw.




(2)

Before a bylaw under subsection (1) is given third reading, the
corporate officer must certify that the proposed revised bylaw has
been revised in accordance with the bylaw authorizing the revision.




(3)

After a proposed revised bylaw is certified under subsection (2) and
before it is adopted it may be amended only if the change made by the
amendment is made in accordance with the bylaw authorizing the
revision.




(4)

A bylaw under subsection (1) must specify the date on which the
revised bylaw is to come into force.






Effect of revised bylaws




4

(1)


When a revised bylaw comes into force, the bylaw provisions that it
revises are repealed to the extent that they are incorporated in the
revised bylaw.




(2)

A reference in an enactment or document to a provision of a bylaw that
has been repealed under subsection (1) is deemed, in respect of any
transaction, matter or thing occurring after the revised bylaw comes
into force, to be a reference to the provision of the revised bylaw
that has been substituted for the repealed provision.




(3)

A revised bylaw does not operate as new law but has effect and must be
interpreted as a consolidation of the law contained in the bylaw
provisions replaced by the revised bylaw.




(4)

To the extent that a provision of a revised bylaw has the same effect
as the provision of a previous bylaw for which it is substituted, the
provision of the revised bylaw operates retrospectively as well as
prospectively and is deemed to have come into force on the date on
which the previous bylaw provision came into force.




(5)

If a provision of a revised bylaw does not have the same effect as the
provision of a previous bylaw for which it is substituted,




(a)

the provision of the previous bylaw prevails with respect to all
transactions, matters and things occurring before the date on which
the revised bylaw comes into force, and




(b)

the provision of the revised bylaw prevails with respect to all later
transactions, matters and things.






Correction of revision errors




5


If an error is made in the revision of a bylaw and the revised bylaw
has been adopted under section 3, the error may be corrected by bylaw
in accordance with the bylaw under section 1 (1) authorizing the
revision.



[This regulation applies also to regional districts by reason of section
794 (6) of the Local Government Act and to local trust committees under
the Islands Trust Act by reason of section 26 (1.2) of the Islands Trust
Act.]


[Provisions of the

Community Charter

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 26, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 140]



