







B.C. Reg. 164/2006

O.C. 414/2006


Deposited June 14, 2006






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Civil Forfeiture Act


Civil Forfeiture Regulation

[Last amended January 14, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 5/2022]





Definitions




1

(1)


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Civil Forfeiture Act

.




(2)

For the purpose of paragraph (a) (ii) of the definition of "instrument
of unlawful activity" in section 1 (1) of the Act, "was likely to
cause serious bodily harm to a person" means there was a real
possibility of causing serious bodily harm to a person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 5/2022, s. 1.]



Part 1 — Proceeds of Unlawful Activity





Determination of equivalent value if increase in value




2

(1)


The purpose of this section is to determine the interest in property
that is equivalent in value to an increase in value of the whole or a
portion of an interest in property for the purpose of paragraph (b) of
the definition of "proceeds of unlawful activity" in the Act.




(2)

If the value of the whole or a portion of an interest in property is
increased directly or indirectly as a result of unlawful activity, the
interest in property that is equivalent in value to this increase is
determined in accordance with the following formula:




A =

B

C








where


A
=

the whole or the portion of the interest in property that is
equivalent in value,



B
=

the dollar value of a payment or other benefit that increases or
causes an increase in the value of the whole or portion of an
interest in property, and



C
=

the fair market value of the property in respect of which a
payment or benefit referred to in the numerator was made or
given on the date the payment is made or benefit is given.







(3)

In this section,
"fair market value"
includes the increase in value resulting from the payment or benefit
referred to in the definition of C in subsection (2).




(4)

If 2 or more payments or 2 or more benefits referred to in subsection
(2) increase the value of the whole or a portion of an interest in
property, the whole or portion of the interest in property that is
proceeds is the sum of each product calculated under subsection (2).






Equivalent value if decrease in debt obligation




3

(1)


The purpose of this section is to determine the interest in property
that is equivalent in value to a decrease in a debt obligation that is
secured against the whole or a portion of an interest in property for
the purpose of paragraph (c) of the definition of "proceeds of
unlawful activity" in the Act.




(2)

If a debt obligation secured against the whole or a portion of an
interest in property is decreased directly or indirectly as a result
of unlawful activity, the interest in property that is equivalent in
value is determined in accordance with the following formula:




A =

B

C








where


A
=

the whole or the portion of the interest in property that is
equivalent in value,



B
=

the dollar value of a payment that decreases a debt obligation
secured against the whole or a portion of an interest in
property, whether or not the payment reduces the principal,
interest, or principal and interest of the debt obligation, and



C
=

the fair market value of the property, against which the debt
obligation referred to in the numerator is secured, on the date
the payment decreases that debt obligation.







(3)

If 2 or more payments reduce a debt obligation referred to in
subsection (2), the whole or portion of the interest in property
secured by the debt obligation that is proceeds is the sum of each
product calculated under subsection (2).




Part 1.1 — Proof of Instruments of Unlawful Activity





Equipment, devices or other things related to trafficking in a
controlled substance




3.1


The following items are prescribed for the purposes of section 19.04
(2) (c) of the Act:




(a)

weigh scale;




(b)

record of transactions, including sale, collection and debt;




(c)

cell phone;




(d)

packaging material;




(e)

money counting machine;




(f)

cash;




(g)

a device or combination of devices that is designed to cause, causes
or is capable of causing interference or obstruction to
radiocommunication;




(h)

a device or combination of devices that




(i)

may be used to track the location of an individual or thing, and




(ii)

is not installed by the manufacturer of the motor vehicle, trailer,
vessel, aircraft or other conveyance.


[en. B.C. Reg. 174/2019, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 5/2022, s. 2.]






Peace officers




3.2


The following classes of persons are prescribed for the purposes of
section 19.05 (1) (c) of the Act:




(a)

an employee of the Canada Border Services Agency who is described in
paragraph (d) or (d.1) of the definition of "peace officer" in section
2 of the

Criminal Code

;




(b)

an officer or non-commissioned member of the Canadian Forces who is
described in paragraph (g) of the definition of "peace officer" in
section 2 of the

Criminal Code

.

[en. B.C. Reg. 174/2019, s. 1.]



Part 2 — Notice of Proceedings





Notification of proceedings




4

(1)


The director must notify a person who holds a registered interest in
property if proceedings commenced under section 3 (1) or (2) of the
Act might result in the forfeiture of the whole or a portion of an
interest in the property, whether or not the registered interest is
the subject of an application for forfeiture.




(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who holds a right of way,
statutory right of way or easement.






Prescribed form of notices




5

(1)


For the purpose of section 23 (1) of the Act, the prescribed form of
notice is Form 1 set out in the Schedule to this regulation.




(2)

For the purpose of sections 4 and 23 (2) of the Act, the prescribed
form of notice is Form 2 set out in the Schedule to this regulation.




(3)

The form of cancellation of a notice referred to in section 23 (3) of
the Act is the form set out as Form 3 in the Schedule to this
regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 252/2007, s. 1.]





Manner of notification of proceedings




6


The director must notify a person referred to in section 4 of this
regulation by delivering to the most recent address shown in the land
title office or the personal property registry, as the case may be, a
completed Form 2 set out in the Schedule in accordance with Rules 4-2
(2) and (4) to (7), 4-6 (1) and 4-7 (1) of the Supreme Court Civil
Rules, B.C. Reg. 168/2009.

[am. B.C. Reg. 140/2010.]



Part 3 — Filing or Registering Notice





Manner of filing or registering




7

(1)


For the purposes of section 23 (1) of the Act, the director may file
Form 1 set out in the Schedule to this regulation in a land title
office in the same manner as a certificate of pending litigation.




(2)

For the purposes of section 23 (2) of the Act, the director may
register in the personal property registry a notice that an interest
is claimed over personal property in the same manner as a notice that
is filed claiming a security interest over personal property.






Section 22 (5) of Act




8

(1)


For the purposes of section 22 (5) of the Act, the following are
prescribed public bodies:




(a)

Ministry of Environment and Climate Change Strategy;




(b)

Ministry of Finance;




(c)

Insurance Corporation of British Columbia;




(d)

BC Financial Services Authority;




(e)

Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor General;




(f)

B.C. Coroners Service;




(g)

British Columbia Assessment Authority;




(h)

British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority;




(i)

British Columbia Lottery Corporation;




(j)

British Columbia Securities Commission;




(k)

Motor Dealer Council;




(l)

Workers' Compensation Board.




(2)

It is a precondition to the director's entitlement to information from
a public body under section 22 (5) of the Act that the person from
whom the director has requested the information reasonably believes
that the information is not covered by an agreement with a third party
under which the information is required to be kept confidential.


[en. B.C. Reg. 252/2007, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 18/2008; 4/2010, s. 3;
191/2018, App. 2, s. 1; 215/2019; 5/2022, s. 3.]




Part 4 — Distribution of Proceeds from the Civil Forfeiture Account





Payment out of the civil forfeiture account




9

(1)


In subsection (2),
"government"
means any of the following:




(a)

the government of Canada;




(b)

the government of a province;




(c)

the government of another country or a state or city in another
country


and includes an agent of a government referred to in paragraphs (a) to
(c).




(2)

In addition to the purposes set out in section 27 (1) (a) to (d) of
the Act, the director may make payments out of the civil forfeiture
account for the purpose of compensating a government that provided
support to the director or co-operated with the director in the
forfeiture of property or an interest in property under this Act.




(3)

An eligible victim who suffered pecuniary loss as a direct result of
unlawful activity that resulted in forfeiture may apply for
compensation from the civil forfeiture account by filing with the
director, a completed form 4 set out in the Schedule within the period
specified in the notice published by the director for payment of
compensation from that forfeiture.




(4)

Before the director makes a payment out of the civil forfeiture
account with respect to property or an interest in property that has
been forfeited, the director must publish a notice specifying that a
person may file an application for payment of compensation with
respect to that forfeiture.




(5)

The notice referred to in subsection (4) must specify a period for
filing an application that is not fewer than 3 months nor more than 9
months from the date of publication of the notice, or of the first
notice, as the case may.

[en. B.C. Reg. 252/2007, s. 3.]





Determination of net proceeds




10


For the purposes of the Act and this regulation, net proceeds is the
amount of money resulting from the disposition of property or the
whole or portion of an interest in property forfeited under this Act,
after subtracting the following costs incurred by the director in
proceeding under this Act with respect to that forfeited property or
interest in property:




(a)

the amount of legal costs that remains after deducting any party and
party legal costs awarded to or agreed to by the director with respect
to proceedings for the forfeiture of property or an interest in
property from the legal costs incurred by or on behalf of the director
in relation to that forfeiture or the distribution of compensation
resulting from that forfeiture;




(b)

the management and administrative costs related to holding and
administering the forfeited property or interest in property before
sale or disposition;




(c)

the costs related to the sale or disposition of the forfeited property
or interest in property.

[en. B.C. Reg. 252/2007, s. 3.]





Prorating payments




11

(1)


The director may prorate payments among eligible victims who have
applied for compensation, if the net proceeds in the civil forfeiture
account that are attributable to a forfeiture of property or an
interest in property are less than the total pecuniary loss suffered
by the eligible victims as a direct result of the unlawful activity
that resulted in that forfeiture.




(2)

The payment made to each eligible victim must be determined in
accordance with the following formula:





Pro rated payment = [(A x B) ÷ C]










where


A
=

the net proceeds in the civil forfeiture account that are
attributable to a forfeiture of property or an interest in
property;



B
=

the pecuniary loss suffered by an eligible victim that resulted
in the forfeiture of that property or interest in property,
excluding interest on that pecuniary loss;



C
=

the total pecuniary loss suffered by all eligible victims that
resulted in the forfeiture of that property or interest in
property, excluding interest on that pecuniary loss.




[en. B.C. Reg. 252/2007, s. 3.]



Part 5 — Notice to Produce Information





Financial institutions




12


The following persons and entities are prescribed for the purposes of
section 22.02 (1) (c) of the Act:




(a)

persons or entities engaged in foreign exchange dealing;




(b)

persons or entities engaged in remitting funds or transmitting funds
by any means or through any person, entity or electronic funds
transfer network;




(c)

persons or entities engaged in issuing or redeeming money orders,
traveller's cheques or other similar negotiable instruments, other
than cheques payable to a named person or entity.

[en. B.C. Reg. 174/2019, s. 1.]





Prescribed form of notice to produce information — financial
institution




13


For the purposes of section 22.02 (2) of the Act, the prescribed form
of notice is,




(a)

if the person receiving the notice is a financial institution, Form 5
set out in the Schedule to this regulation, and




(b)

if the person receiving the notice has a registered interest in the
property, Form 6 set out in the Schedule to this regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 174/2019, s. 1.]



Schedule

[am. B.C. Regs. 252/2007, s. 4; 174/2019, s. 2.]


Form 1


(section 23 (1) of the Civil Forfeiture Act)

NATURE OF INTEREST: CHARGE
NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS
HEREWITH FEE OF
LEGAL DESCRIPTION AND PARCEL IDENTIFIER NO.(s):




Address and telephone number of the Director of Civil Forfeiture:




........................................................................

SIGNATURE OF DIRECTOR, SOLICITOR

OR AUTHORIZED AGENT

No.: ....................................
................... REGISTRY
In the Supreme Court of British Columbia
BETWEEN:

.....................................

PLAINTIFF/PETITIONER

AND:

.....................................

DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT

CERTIFICATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS

I CERTIFY that in a proceeding commenced in this Court under the
Civil Forfeiture Act
a claim is made relating to land or an interest or portion of interest
in land. The particulars are set out in the attached copy of the
document by which the claim is made.



Given under my hand and the seal of the court at

.....................British Columbia, this ...... day of
....................... , 20.....

..................REGISTRAR


Form 2


(sections 4 and 23 (2) of the Civil Forfeiture Act)

No. ..............................
.............................. Registry
In the Supreme Court of British Columbia
Between
, Plaintiff/Petitioner
and
, Defendant/Respondent

SECTIONS 4 AND 23 (2) NOTICE OF PROCEEDINGS


TAKE NOTICE that a court proceeding has been commenced under the
Civil Forfeiture Act
and that the legal ownership of property or an interest or portion of
interest in property described below may be affected by the proceedings.
Further information regarding this matter, or a copy of the document(s)
by which the claim is made, may be obtained from the office of the
Director of Civil Forfeiture.


DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY THAT IS SUBJECT TO THE PROCEEDINGS





Legal Description of real property or interest in real property

(1)


(2)






Description of personal property

(1)


(2)






Address and contact numbers of the Director of Civil Forfeiture




Telephone:


Fax:





................................................................................

Signature of Director,

or Solicitor or Authorized Agent



Form 3


(Section 23 of the Civil Forfeiture Act)

NATURE OF INTEREST:

Cancellation of notice of commencement of proceedings

HEREWITH FEE OF:
Legal description and parcel identifier no.(s):




Full name, address and telephone number of person presenting
application:




................................................................................

SIGNATURE OF DIRECTOR, OR

SOLICITOR OR AUTHORIZED AGENT


TAKE NOTICE that the Notice of Commencement of Proceedings filed in the
Land Title Office under No. .........., on the ........ day of
.........., 20....., against the land described as follows:

[Legal description and parcel identifier no(s)]



is hereby released and discharged.

EXECUTION: This instrument discharges the notice described above and the
Director agrees to be bound by this instrument.






Officer Signature(s)




.....................................................







Execution Date




Y










M










D















Director Signature




......................................................

Director of Civil Forfeiture





OFFICER CERTIFICATION:

Your signature constitutes a representation that you are a solicitor,
notary public or other person authorized by the
Evidence Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 124, to take affidavits for use in British Columbia
and certifies the matters set out in Part 5 of the
Land Title Act
as they pertain to the execution of this instrument.



Form 4



Application for Compensation from the Civil Forfeiture Account



(Section 23 of the Civil Forfeiture Act)


Section 1: General Information


PLEASE PRINT ALL INFORMATION

1 Amount of Claim
2 Claimant's Name:








First Name
Last Name
(if business) Full Corporate Name







Street No., Street Name
Suite/Unit No.
City
Province
Postal Code








(    )

Telephone No.


(    )

Business No.


(    )

Facsimile No.


Email

Address





3 If claimant is under 19, please also include legal guardian's
contact information and relationship to claimant




Section 2: Claims Information


4
Particulars of Claim:
(attach copies of all documents needed to prove your claim such as
cancelled cheques, receipts, bank or credit card statements, leases,
agreements, etc. Failure to do so may result in your claim being denied
without further notice to you).






(Attach an additional page if necessary)

Section 3: Additional Information


5 Have you received any monies or are you entitled to receive any
monies from any source RELATING TO THIS CLAIM?


YES [  ]      OR      NO [  ]


If yes, we need you to tell us how much and from where you will receive
or have received this money. Examples of a source relating to this claim
are your insurance, another government program like the Crime Victim
Assistance Program or the Workers Compensation program or a restitution
order made by a court under section 738 or 739 of the
Criminal Code
.






(Attach an additional page if necessary)

6 Was a police report filed or a court action started RELATING TO
THIS CLAIM?


YES [  ]      OR      NO [  ]


If yes, we need you to attach a copy of the police report or the court
documents to this claim. If no documents are attached, explain why not.)






(Attach an additional page if necessary)

7 Other than being a victim and entitled to file a claim, do you
have any connection with the persons responsible for or connected to the
unlawful activity that resulted in the forfeiture proceeding? (For
example, are you a relative or did you have any role in the unlawful
activity giving rise to the forfeiture?).


YES [  ]      OR      NO [  ]

(If yes, please provide details.)





(Attach an additional page if necessary)
8 Declaration of Claimant/Guardian:
I certify that:

A. The information contained in this application or submitted in
support of this application is true and if there is any change to the
information after I have submitted this application I will contact the
Director of Civil Forfeiture, Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor
General, immediately.


B. I am aware and agree that the information contained in this
application or submitted in support of this application will be used for
assessment of claim, for determining eligibility and for statistical
reporting.


C. I am aware that false or incomplete information or failure to
notify the Director of Civil Forfeiture, Ministry of Public Safety and
Solicitor General, of any change in the information contained in this
application or submitted in support of this application may result in
the denial of the claim or liability for repayment.


D. I am aware and agree that the information contained in this
application or submitted in support of this application is subject to
disclosure under the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
and the
Civil Forfeiture Act
.





.......................................................................

Claimant Signature Date



.....................................................................

Guardian Signature Date

(If claimant under age 19)




Print Name:







Print Name:










Form 5


(Section 22.02 of the Civil Forfeiture Act)









Form 6


(Section 22.02 of the Civil Forfeiture Act)





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Civil Forfeiture Act

, S.B.C. 2005, c. 29, ss. 22 (5) and 38.]



