







B.C. Reg. 498/95

O.C. 1421/95


Deposited December 1, 1995

effective December 31, 1995





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Environmental Management Act


Cleaner Gasoline Regulation

[Last amended January 1, 2013 by B.C. Reg. 131/2011]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:



"additive compliance record"

means




(a)

a written record, prepared in accordance with Note 12 of the Canadian
General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.5–2004 Unleaded Automotive
Gasoline, of deposit control additive, added to the gasoline to meet
the requirements of section 6.19 of that Standard, or




(b)

a written confirmation provided to a primary distributor or wholesale
purchaser under section 2 (5) or (6);



"antiknock index"

means the number determined by averaging the motor octane number and
the research octane number for a type of gasoline;


"biomass"
means material that is produced solely from grains, plants, trees or
biological refuse, but does not include any material produced from
petroleum;


"blend"
means the mixing together of gasoline components including, but not
limited to, oxygenates, but does not include the addition of additives
to gasoline that do not materially affect the composition of the
gasoline or the mixing together of gasolines;


"blender"
means a person engaged in blending;



"cargo tanker"

means a trailer having a bulk liquid tank on it, or a motor vehicle
having a bulk liquid tank mounted on the frame or chassis of the motor
vehicle, that is used for the transportation between facilities of
gasoline alone or gasoline and other petroleum products;



"compliance record"

means a written record, including an additive compliance record,
demonstrating that gasoline complies with the applicable gasoline
standard;



"deposit control additive"

means deposit control additive as the term is used in the Canadian
General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB-3.5-2004 Unleaded Automotive
Gasoline;


"gasoline"
means a petroleum distillate, or a mixture of petroleum distillates,
oxygenates or additives, that is liquid at atmospheric pressure with a
vapour pressure of at least 38 kiloPascals and which is suitable for
use in a spark ignition engine, but does not include gasoline for use
in




(a)

aircraft,




(b)

competition vehicles, if the gasoline has an antiknock index of 100 or
greater, or




(c)

scientific research;



"gasoline shipment"

means the gasoline contained within a single shipment of gasoline by
cargo tanker, rail car or marine vessel;



"gasoline standard"

means a gasoline standard set out in Schedule 1 and, if the
gasoline standard has been amended and the amendment has been
published by the Canadian General Standards Board, that gasoline
standard must be read as amended on and after the first day of the
4th month after the publication;


"grade"
means a grade of gasoline based on a minimum antiknock index;


"import"
means to bring gasoline into British Columbia by cargo tanker, rail
car or marine vessel;


"importer"
means a person who possesses for sale gasoline which is imported into
British Columbia;



"Lower Fraser Valley"

means that part of British Columbia bounded on the north by
latitude 49° 30', on the east by
longitude 121° 15' and on the west by
longitude 123° 20';



"motor octane number"

means a numerical indication of the resistance to knock of the fuel in
a spark-ignition engine when compared with reference fuels tested by
the method set out in a standard of the American Society for Testing
Materials titled ASTM D2700 Standard Test Method for Motor Octane
Number of Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel;


"parameter"
means a measure of gasoline quality with respect to its vapour
pressure or oxygen concentration;



"possess for sale"

means to possess gasoline for sale or eventual sale in British
Columbia;



"primary distributor"

means,




(a)

for gasoline distributed from a terminal in British Columbia, the
owner or operator of the terminal in British Columbia unless




(i)

the gasoline is received from another terminal in British Columbia, or




(ii)

blending occurs in a cargo tanker at the terminal or after gasoline
has been shipped from the terminal,




(b)

for gasoline which is blended in a cargo tanker or after gasoline has
been shipped from a terminal, the person who has possession of the
gasoline when blended, or




(c)

for gasoline imported into British Columbia and not referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b), the importer;



"quality assurance program"

means a combination of testing and statistical techniques to determine
whether gasoline possessed for sale complies with the requirements of
Part 1;



"research octane number"

means a numerical indication of the resistance to knock of the fuel in
a spark-ignition engine when compared with reference fuels tested by
the method set out in the standard of the American Society for Testing
Materials titled ASTM D2699 Standard Test Method for Research
Octane Number of Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel;



"retail sale"

means a sale or offer to sell or deliver gasoline to a final user;


"sale"
includes to sell at retail, to offer for sale at retail and to deliver
to a final user;


"terminal"
means a gasoline distribution facility where gasoline is normally
received by pipeline or marine transfer, or is normally received
directly from a refinery, and is stored in bulk for distribution by
cargo tanker, rail car, pipeline or marine transfer;



"wholesale purchaser"

means a person who purchases or takes possession of gasoline except in
a retail transaction;



"written confirmation"

means a written record, signed and dated by a representative of a
wholesale purchaser




(a)

stating that deposit control additive will be added to the gasoline
before its retail sale, and




(b)

including a statement of who will add the deposit control additive and
the volume of gasoline to which the record applies.


[am. B.C. Regs. 347/99, s. 1; 321/2004, s. 6 (a); 3/2007, s. 1;
346/2010, Sch. s. 1.]




Part 1 — Compliance Requirements for Gasoline





Compliance with gasoline standards required




2

(1)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 346/2010, Sch. s. 2.]




(2)

A primary distributor must maintain a compliance record of the
gasoline parameters, measured in accordance with this Part, for all
gasoline possessed by the primary distributor for sale in British
Columbia during the calendar year.




(3)

A wholesale purchaser must not possess gasoline for sale in British
Columbia which does not comply with the requirement for the addition
of deposit control additive specified in the applicable gasoline
standard.




(4)

A wholesale purchaser must maintain an additive compliance record by
calendar year for all gasoline possessed by the wholesale purchaser.




(5)

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to a primary distributor in
respect of the requirement, specified in the applicable gasoline
standard, for the addition of deposit control additive to gasoline
provided the primary distributor




(a)

sells or transfers possession of the gasoline to a wholesale
purchaser, and




(b)

possesses a written confirmation.




(6)

Subsections (3) and (4) do not apply to a wholesale purchaser in
respect of the requirement, specified in the applicable gasoline
standard, for the addition of deposit control additive to gasoline
provided the wholesale purchaser sells or transfers possession to
another person and




(a)

possesses an additive compliance record completed by the primary
distributor of the gasoline demonstrating that the primary distributor
has complied on an earlier occasion with subsections (1)
and (2) respecting the gasoline,




(b)

possesses an additive compliance record completed by a previous
wholesale purchaser of the gasoline demonstrating that the previous
wholesale purchaser has complied on an earlier occasion with
subsections (3) and (4) respecting the gasoline, or




(c)

obtains the written confirmation of a subsequent wholesale purchaser.

[am. B.C. Regs. 347/99, s. 2; 346/2010, Sch. s. 2.]





Gasoline standard




3

(1)


Except as provided in sections 2 (5) and 4, a primary distributor must
not possess gasoline for sale in British Columbia unless the gasoline
complies with one of the gasoline standards set out in
Schedule 1.




(2)

A reference in this regulation to a gasoline standard is a reference
to that gasoline standard as it may be amended from time to time.

[am. B.C. Regs. 347/99, s. 3; 3/2007, s. 2.]





Determination of grade of gasoline




3.1


For the purposes of this regulation, a grade of gasoline referred to
in column 1 of the following table is gasoline that has a minimum
antiknock index referred to in column 2 opposite that grade and a
maximum antiknock index that is less than the minimum antiknock index
of the next higher grade of gasoline.





Item


Column 1

Grade of gasoline


Column 2

Minimum antiknock index



1
Grade 1
87.0


2
Grade 2
89.0


3
Grade 3
91.0


4
Grade 4
93.0



[en. B.C. Reg. 346/2010, Sch. s. 3.]





Vapour pressure




4

(1)


Section 3 does not apply to gasoline that




(a)

contains an amount of oxygen that is greater than 3.4% of the gasoline
by weight,




(b)

contains oxygen that is supplied by one of the following:




(i)

alcohols produced wholly from biomass;




(ii)

ethers where the alcohol component of the ether is produced wholly
from biomass;




(iii)

a combination of the alcohols and ethers referred to in
subparagraphs (i) and (ii), and




(c)

meets the requirements of CAN/CGSB–3.511–2005 Oxygenated Unleaded
Automotive Gasoline Containing Ethanol.




(2)

A primary distributor must not possess for sale gasoline described in
subsection (1) in the Lower Fraser Valley during the period
starting on July 16 and ending on August 14 of each year
unless the vapour pressure of the gasoline is less than or equal to
the sum of the maximum vapour pressure referred to in
section 7.13 of the CAN/CGSB 3.511-2005 Oxygenated Unleaded
Automotive Gasoline Containing Ethanol plus 7 kiloPascals.


[en. B.C. Reg. 346/2010, Sch. s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 346/2010, s. (b).]






Repealed




5–8


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 3/2007, s. 4.]




Part 2 — Administrative Requirements





Analytical methods




9

(1)


To determine parameter values for the purposes of this regulation,




(a)

the analytical methods referred to in the Canadian General Standards
Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.5–2004 Unleaded Automotive Gasoline must be
used,




(b)

if the gasoline contains an amount of ethanol that is 10% or less by
volume of the amount of gasoline, the analytical methods referred to
in the Canadian General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.511–2005
Oxygenated Unleaded Automotive Gasoline Containing Ethanol must be
used in addition to the analytical methods set out in
paragraph (a), and




(c)

if the gasoline contains an amount of ethanol that is 50 to 85% by
volume of the amount of gasoline, the analytical methods referred to
in the Canadian General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.512–2011
Automotive Ethanol Fuel (E50–E85) must be used, in addition to
the analytical methods set out paragraph (a).




(2)

Despite subsection (1) a primary distributor may use an analytical
method other than one referred to in subsection (1) to determine
parameter values for the purposes of this regulation provided




(a)

the equivalency of the alternative analytical method to an analytical
method referred to in subsection (1) is established by applying
the American Society for Testing and Measurements method
ASTM D4855-91,
Standard Practice for Comparing Test Methods
, or the American Society for Testing and Measurements method
ASTM D3764-92,
Standard Practice for Validation of Process Steam Analyzers
, and




(b)

60 days before using the alternative analytical method, the primary
distributor sends to a director by registered mail notice that the
alternative analytical method will be used and reasons why the
alternative method is equivalent to an analytical method referred to
in subsection (1).




(3)

Despite subsection (2), if the director notifies the primary
distributor that an alternative analytical method referred to in
subsection (2) may not be used, the primary distributor must




(a)

not use the alternative analytical method, or




(b)

if use of the alternative analytical method was commenced before
notice from the director was received by the primary distributor,
cease to use the alternative analytical method.


[en. B.C. Reg. 347/99, s. 4; am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 6 (g);
3/2007, s. 5; 131/2011, s. (a).]






Records




10

(1)


For the purpose of section 2 (2), a primary distributor must do all of
the following:




(a)

conduct a quality assurance program to ascertain that gasoline
possessed for sale in British Columbia conforms to the requirements of
Part 1;




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 3/2007, s. 6 (a).]




(c)

maintain records of the tests conducted in accordance with
paragraph (a) including, without limitation, the following
information:




(i)

the value of any parameter tested for under paragraph (a);




(ii)

the quantity of gasoline represented by the sample tested;




(iii)

the date the test was performed;




(d)

maintain records of any data and information collected in the course
of or for the purpose of complying with reporting requirements under
the




(i)

Benzene in Gasoline Regulations (SOR/97-493), and




(ii)

Sulphur in Gasoline Regulations (SOR/99-236),

as amended from time to time.



(2)

A person who is required by this section to maintain a record must do
all of the following:




(a)

keep the record at the person's place of business for at least
2 years after the date of preparing or first obtaining the
record;




(b)

if requested to do so by an officer, produce the record for inspection
within 30 working days;




(c)

if requested to do so by a director, copy or report in writing to the
director, within 30 working days, the contents of any such record
that the director specifies in making the request.




(3)

A director may require any test referred to in subsection (1) (a) to
be performed by a laboratory specified by the director.




(4)

A director may, after a record referred to in subsection (1) has been
prepared, require that the record be certified as to its accuracy by a
professional engineer registered in British Columbia or by another
person acceptable to the director.




(5)

In a record required by this section, all quantities of gasoline must
be recorded in cubic metres or litres.




(6)

A director may require importers or blenders of gasoline to provide
24 hours advance notification of gasoline import shipments to a
person designated by the director.




(7)

An importer must keep records of the source and disposition of each
gasoline shipment.




(8)

A blender must keep records of the volumes of components blended.




(9)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 3/2007, s. 6 (a).]


[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 6 (h) to (j); 3/2007, s. 6.]






Offence and penalty




11

(1)


A person who contravenes Part 1 commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $200 000.




(2)

A person who contravenes section 10 commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100 000.






Repealed




12


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 321/2004, s. 6 (b).]




Schedule 1

[am. B.C. Regs. 3/2007, s. 7; 131/2011, s. (b).]

(section 3)


Gasoline Standards






1


For the purpose of section 3, the following gasoline standards apply:




(a)

the Canadian General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.5–2004
Standard for Unleaded Automotive Gasoline;




(b)

the Canadian General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.511–2005
Standard for Oxygenated Unleaded Automotive Gasoline Containing
Ethanol;




(c) to (e)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 3/2007, s. 7.]




(f)

the Canadian General Standards Board Standard CAN/CGSB–3.512–2011
Automotive Ethanol Fuel (E50–E85).




Schedule 2

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 3/2007, s. 4.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Environmental Management Act

, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, ss. 72, 73, 138 and 139.]



