







B.C. Reg. 235/96

O.C. 1006/96


Deposited August 21, 1996






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Financial Disclosure Act


Financial Disclosure Act Form Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Form prescribed




1


For the purposes of sections 3, 4, 5 and 12 of the

Financial Disclosure Act

,




(a)

until August 1, 2001, the Statements of Disclosure set out in
Schedules A and B are prescribed, and




(b)

on and after August 1, 2001, the Statement of Disclosure set out in
Schedule A is prescribed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2001, s. 1.]



Schedule A


[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2001, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 5 and 11.]








Statement of Disclosure





Financial Disclosure Act







You must complete a Statement of Disclosure form if you are:



• a nominee for election to provincial or local government office*, as a
school trustee or as a director of a francophone education authority

• an elected local government official

• an elected school trustee, or a director of a francophone education
authority


• an employee designated by a local government, a francophone education
authority or the board of a school district


• a public employee designated by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.


(* "local government" includes municipalities, regional districts and
the Islands Trust.)


Copies of this form (AG01039) are available at:


• Government Publication Warehouse, Victoria, B.C.

Phone (250) 952-4460, Fax (250) 952-4442


Who has access to the information on this form?


The
Financial Disclosure Act
requires you to disclose assets, liabilities and sources of income.
Under section 6 (1) of the Act, statements of disclosure filed by
nominees or municipal officials are available for public inspection
during normal business hours. Statements filed by designated employees
are not routinely available for public inspection.


If you have questions about this form, please contact your solicitor or
your political party's legal counsel.


What is a trustee? s. 5 (2)


In the following questions the term "trustee" does not mean school
trustee or Islands Trust trustee. Under the
Financial Disclosure Act
a trustee:


• holds a share in a corporation or an interest in land for your
benefit, or is liable under the
Income Tax Act
(Canada) to pay income tax on income received on the share or land
interest


• has an agreement entitling the trustee to acquire an interest in land
for your benefit.





Name of person making disclosure:




Street, rural route, post office box:



City
Province:
Postal code:



Level of government that applies to you:



[ ] provincial
[ ] local government

[ ] school board / francophone education authority







Please use the back of this form or a separate sheet if necessary

to list all items in the following sections.




Assets — s. 3 (a)


Please list the name of each corporation in which you hold one or more
shares, including shares held by a trustee on your behalf.





name(s) of corporation(s)






Liabilities — s. 3 (e)


Please list all creditors to whom you owe a debt. Do not include
residential property debt (mortgage, lease or agreement for sale), money
borrowed for household or personal living expenses, or any assets you
hold in trust for another person.





creditor's name(s)



creditor's address(es)






Income — s. 3 (b-d)


Please list each of the businesses and organizations from which you
receive financial remuneration for your services and identify your
capacity as owner, part-owner, employee, trustee, partner or other (e.g.
director of a company or society).


• Provincial nominees and designated employees must list all sources of
income in the province.


• Local government officials, school board officials, francophone
education authority directors and designated employees must list only
income sources within the regional district that includes the
municipality, local trust area or school district for which the official
is elected or nominated, or where the employee holds the designated
position.





your capacity



name(s) of business(es)/organization(s)






Real Property — s. 3 (f)


Please list the legal description and address of all land in which you,
or a trustee acting on your behalf, own an interest or have an agreement
which entitles you to obtain an interest. Do not include your personal
residence.


• Provincial nominees and designated employees must list all applicable
land holdings in the province.


• Local government officials, school board officials, francophone
education authority directors and designated employees must list only
applicable land holdings within the regional district that includes the
municipality, local trust area or school district for which the official
is elected or nominated, or where the employee holds the designated
position.





legal description(s)



address(es)






Corporate Assets — s. 5


Do you individually, or together with your spouse, child, sibling or
parent, own shares in a corporation which total more than 30% of votes
for electing directors? Include shares held by a trustee on your behalf,
but not shares you hold by way of security.
[  ] no  [  ] yes


If yes, please list the following information below and continue on the
back of this form, or on a separate sheet as necessary:


• the name of each corporation and all of its subsidiaries


• in general terms, the type of business the corporation and its
subsidiaries normally conduct


• a description and address of land in which the corporation, its
subsidiaries or a trustee acting for the corporation, own an interest,
or have an agreement entitling any of them to acquire an interest


• a list of creditors of the corporation, including its subsidiaries.
You need not include debts of less than $5 000 payable in 90 days


• a list of any other corporations in which the corporation, including
its subsidiaries or trustees acting for them, holds one or more shares.



















signature of person making disclosure:



date:






Where to send this completed disclosure form:


[ ] Local Government officials:



. . . to your local chief election officer:


• with your nomination papers



. . . to the officer responsible for corporate administration:




• between the 1st and 15th of January of each year you hold office, and


• by the 15th of the month after you leave office



[ ] School board trustees/ Francophone Education Authority
directors:





. . . to the secretary treasurer or chief executive officer of the
authority:



• with your nomination papers, and

• between the 1st and 15th of January of each year you hold office, and


• by the 15th of the month after you leave office


[ ] Nominees for Provincial office:


• with your nomination papers. If elected you will be advised of further
disclosure requirements under the
Members' Conflict of Interest Act
.


[ ] Designated Employees:




. . . to the appropriate disclosure clerk (local government officer
responsible for corporate administration, secretary treasurer, or
Clerk of the Legislative Assembly):




• by the 15th of the month you become a designated employee, and


• between the 1st and 15th of January of each year you are employed, and


• by the 15th of the month after you leave your position



Schedule B

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 32/2001, s. 2.]

[Provisions of the

Financial Disclosure Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 139, ss. 3 to 5 and 12.]



