







B.C. Reg. 674/76

O.C. 3779/76


Filed December 30, 1976

effective January 1, 1977





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Fishing Industry Regulations

[Last amended April 6, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 279/2019]





Definitions




1


In these regulations:


"Act"
means the

Workers Compensation Act

;



"commercial fisher"

means




(a)

a master or member of a crew of a licensed commercial fishing vessel
who is a possessor or required to be a possessor of a current personal
commercial fishing licence,




(b)

a master or member of a crew of a fish packing, fish collecting or
other vessel which is licensed or required to be licensed under the

Fisheries Act

of the Province to engage in buying or collecting fish for commercial
sale or use, or




(c)

any other person who, in the opinion of the Board, contributes to the
catching or landing of fish for commercial sale or use,

and who



(d)

in the course of that person's occupation as a fisher, contributes to
the catching or landing of fish for arrival in British Columbia ports
for sale to or use by a commercial buyer or other commercial recipient
of fish,




(e)

has made arrangements with the Board for the payment of assessments,
or




(f)

is a person who, apart from these regulations, would be a "worker"
under the compensation provisions of the Act and a fisher


but, subject to paragraph (e) of this definition, does not include




(g)

a fisher who rarely contributes to the catching or landing of fish for
arrival in British Columbia ports for sale to or use by a commercial
buyer or other commercial recipient of fish;



"commercial buyer"

or

"commercial recipient"

means a person who is buying or receiving fish for resale or
commercial use, but excludes a person who is buying for personal or
family consumption;



"commercial sale"

includes sale to a person who is buying for resale or commercial use,
but excludes a sale to a person who is buying for personal or family
consumption;


"fish"
means any species of animal living in water;


"fisher"
means a person who contributes in any manner to the catching or
landing of fish, and may include a temporary or part time fisher;



"fishing vessel"

means any vessel used in catching fish or collecting or transporting
fish for landing;



"reportable injury"

means an injury required to be reported to the Board under section 150
[employer obligation to report]
of the Act, and regulations made under that provision.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, ss. 1 and 2; 279/2019, App. A, s.
1.]






Compensation provisions of the Act apply to commercial fishers




2

(1)


Subject to these regulations and to any other regulations or decisions
made under the compensation provisions of the Act, all compensation
provisions of the Act relating to workers apply to commercial fishers.




(2)

For the purposes of the compensation provisions of the Act, a
commercial fisher's employment is that person's occupation as a
commercial fisher.

[en. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. A, s. 2.]





Eligibility for benefits




3


Where a commercial fisher is injured in the course of that person's
occupation, but the fish caught, landed or acquired on the particular
voyage are not for commercial sale, that person is, subject to the
compensation provisions of the Act and regulations and decisions made
under those provisions, eligible for compensation; and earnings from
such voyages may be included in the calculation of earnings for
compensation in respect of such an injury or any other injury.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, s. 4; 279/2019, App. A, s. 3.]






Section 147 of Act does not apply to commercial fishers




4


Section 147
[injuries happening outside British Columbia]
of the Act does not apply to commercial fishers.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, s. 5; 279/2019, App. A, s. 4.]






Assessments




5

(1)


Unless the Board otherwise determines,




(a)

a commercial buyer or other commercial recipient of fish who directly
or indirectly acquires fish from a commercial fisher must pay
assessments on the fish bought, obtained or paid for by or through the
commercial buyer or other commercial recipient of fish, except if the
fish are acquired from another commercial buyer or other commercial
recipient;




(b)

a person who engages the services of a master or crew of or for a
fishing vessel must pay assessments on any fish in respect of which
assessments are not payable under paragraph (a);




(c)

the compensation provisions of the Act relating to employers apply to
a person engaged in transmitting payments to commercial fishers as if
the person were engaged in the fishing industry, and that person is
deemed to be the employer of any persons or organizations other than
commercial buyers or commercial recipients who contributed in any
manner to the catching or landing of the fish bought, obtained or paid
for through or by that person and in respect of which assessments are
not otherwise paid, and




(d)

for assessment purposes, a commercial recipient does not include a
person who receives fish only for transport to a commercial buyer or a
commercial recipient in the province.




(2)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 371/2005, App. A, s. 6.]




(3)

Assessments shall be paid on the total wages, prices or other payments
made or payable to or on behalf of commercial fishers and shall be
calculated, determined and notified to the Board in such manner as the
Board may prescribe. Where the total wages, price or other payments
made or payable to or on behalf of commercial fishers exceed the
maximum wage for one year as fixed for the time being under section
209

[annual determination of maximum wage rate for average earnings]

of the Act, a deduction may be made where practical in respect of the
excess; and where the total wages, price or other payments made or
payable to or on behalf of commercial fishers are shown to exceed the
above maximum wage rate, the Board may make a deduction where
practical in respect of the portion in excess of that rate.


[am. B.C. Regs. 364/2000; 371/2005, App. A, ss. 1 and 6; 279/2019,
App. A, s. 5.]






Assessments not deductible from payments due




6


No sum payable in assessments shall be deducted from any payment due
to commercial fishers.

[am. B.C. Reg. 371/2005, App. A, s. 7.]





Registration with Board




7


All commercial buyers and other commercial recipients of fish and all
other persons required to pay assessments under section 5 must
register with the Board and provide such information as the Board may
require.

[am. B.C. Reg. 371/2005, App. A, s. 1.]





Repealed




8-9.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 152/2001, s. 1.]






Reporting injury, death or disease on fishing vessels




10

(1)


For the purposes of section 149
[worker notice of injury]
, section 150
[employer obligation to report]
, section 262

[employer assessment in relation to injury not reported as required]

and Part 6
[Review of Board Decisions]
of the Act, the employer in respect of a fishing vessel owned or
chartered by a commercial buyer or other commercial recipient of fish
is the vessel owner or charterer.




(2)

For the purposes of sections 149, 150 and 262 of the Act, the employer
in respect of a fishing vessel not owned or chartered by a commercial
buyer or other commercial recipient of fish is the vessel master, or
where there is no vessel master, the vessel owner.




(3)

For the purposes of Part 6 of the Act, the employer in respect of a
fishing vessel not owned or chartered by a commercial buyer or other
commercial recipient of fish is




(a)

the vessel master,




(b)

the vessel owner,




(c)

any commercial buyer or other commercial recipient of fish,




(d)

any other person required to pay assessments under section 5, or




(e)

such other person or association of employers,


as may be designated by the Board for these purposes.




(3.1)

Part 6 of the Act applies to the persons described in section 5 (1)
(a) to (c) as being required to pay assessments.




(3.2)

The persons to whom Part 6 of the Act applies as a result of this
section are deemed to be employers for the purposes of those sections.




(4)

Where the master of any fishing vessel owned or chartered by a
commercial buyer or other commercial recipient of fish receives a
report under section 149 of the Act, or becomes aware that a member of
the master's crew has sustained a reportable injury, death or
occupational disease which is or is claimed to be one arising out of
and in the course of that person's occupation as a commercial fisher,
the master shall forthwith report such injury, death or occupational
disease to the vessel owner or charterer or, if that is impracticable,
to the Board.


[am. B.C. Regs. 323/2002; 383/2002; 384/2002; 371/2005, App. A, ss. 1
and 8; 279/2019, App. A, s. 6.]






Examination of records




11


Any officer of the Board, or a person authorized by it for this
purpose, has the right to examine the books, accounts and other
records of any person whose records may or should show the catching or
landing of fish, or payments made in respect of fish, and may make
such other inquiry as the Board may deem necessary.

[am. B.C. Regs. 37/92; 371/2005, App. A, s. 1.]





Penalties on unpaid assessments




12


If any assessment levied against any person under a compensation
provision of the Act, or a regulation under a compensation provision
of the Act, is not paid at the time it becomes payable, the defaulting
person must pay a penalty for default as may be prescribed by the
regulations or may be determined by the Board, and the penalty may be
added to the amount of the assessment and become a part thereof, or
where not added to the assessment may be enforced in the same manner
as the payment of an assessment is enforceable.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, ss. 1 and 9; 279/2019, App. A, s.
7.]






Payment for transport of injured fisher




13


For the purposes of section 159

[employer authority and obligations in relation to health care]

of the Act, the expense of transporting an injured fisher to a
hospital, physician or qualified practitioner for initial treatment
must be paid by the owner of the vessel on which the fisher is injured
or where the vessel is chartered by the charterer of the vessel on
which the fisher is injured or in default of payment by the vessel
owner or charterer the vessel master.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, s. 10; 279/2019, App. A, s. 8.]






Definitions




14


For the purposes of Division 3
[Legal Effect of Workers' Compensation System]
of Part 3 of the Act:


"employer"
includes any person required to pay assessments under section 5,
except commercial fishers;


"employment"
means the business or occupation of an employer or a worker in so far
as it relates to fish, fishing or fishing vessels; but nothing in
these regulations shall exclude the application of that Division of
the Act from any situation to which it would otherwise apply;


"workers"
includes any commercial fisher.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, s. 11; 279/2019, App. A, s. 9.]






Board amendment of regulations




15


The Board may add to and amend these regulations and exercise all the
powers conferred by section 8
[application to fishing industry]
of the Act.


[am. B.C. Regs. 371/2005, App. A, s. 1; 279/2019, App. A, s. 10.]






Repealed




16


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. A, s. 11.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of these regulations:

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 2019, c. 1, s. 8.]



