







B.C. Reg. 39/2017

O.C. 61/2017


Deposited February 20, 2017

effective March 31, 2017






This consolidation is current to August 29, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after August 29, 2023.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Geothermal Resources Act


Geothermal Resources General Regulation

[Last amended February 5, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 11/2021]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Geothermal Resources Act

;


"core lab"
means the facility for the storage and examination of well samples and
cores;



"geothermal reports"

means geothermal exploration summaries, geological reports and
geothermal resource estimates, but does not include well reports and
well data;



"qualified person"

means a person who is registered under the

Professional Governance Act

as a professional engineer or professional geoscientist;



"well reports and well data"

means information obtained from a geothermal well, including
unprocessed and processed log data, dipmeter surveys, directional
surveys, drill stem test data and analyses, wire line data,
pressure-volume-temperature and flow test data and analyses,
completion information, geological information, drilling depths,
casing and cementing information, well status, fluid sample or
analysis data, drill cuttings and any analysis and description of the
drill cuttings and cores, but does not include geothermal reports.

[am. B.C. Reg. 11/2021, App. 3, s. 8.]





Permits




2

(1)


The fee for the issue or renewal of a permit is $500.




(2)

The yearly rent for a permit is $500.






Geothermal exploration




3

(1)


The prescribed value of the geothermal exploration on a location
required under section 7 (1) of the Act is




(a)

in the first year, $5/ha,




(b)

in the second year, $7.50/ha,




(c)

in the third year, $10/ha,




(d)

in the fourth year, $12/ha,




(e)

in the fifth year, $14/ha,




(f)

in the sixth year, $17/ha,




(g)

in the seventh year, $20/ha, and




(h)

in the eighth year, $25/ha.




(2)

With the approval of the minister, a permittee may attribute to a
location for which the permittee holds a permit work that was done on
an area for which the permittee does not hold a permit.






Multiple locations




4


If a permittee




(a)

holds permits for several locations, and




(b)

has during any year done on one or more of the locations work to a
value greater than is required by section 3,


the permittee may apply to the minister to apportion the excess value
among the other locations and, if the minister approves, work to that
value is deemed to have been done on those other locations in that
year.






Excess work




5


If a permittee




(a)

has, in any year, done more work on a location than is required under
section 3, and




(b)

has not applied, under section 4, to attribute the value of the excess
work to other locations or, after apportionment under section 4,
there is still excess work,


the permittee may apply the excess work to the applicable location for
either of the two years immediately following the year the work was
done.






Payment in place of work




6


A permittee who has not done the work required under section 3 may,
with the approval of the minister, satisfy that requirement by




(a)

paying to the minister an amount equal to the value of the work not
done, or




(b)

submitting to the minister a written undertaking to do next year the
work not done, together with the work required to be done for the next
year.






Permit renewal




7

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), a permittee may apply to the minister to
renew a permit by submitting the following before the permit expires:




(a)

the renewal fee and rent for the permit for the next year;




(b)

a statement signed by a qualified person setting out the expenditures
of work done;




(c)

a geothermal report respecting the work completed during the previous
year;




(d)

any other information required by the minister.




(2)

If a person fails to submit an application under subsection (1) before
the expiry of the permit, the person may, within 2 months from the
date of the expiry, submit an application under subsection (1) but the
application must also include the applicable of the following
penalties:




(a)

$100, if the application is received by the minister not more than 10
days after the expiry;




(b)

$500, if the application is received by the minister more than 10 days
after the expiry.




(3)

The minister may approve or decline to approve an application under
subsection (1).






Leases




8

(1)


The fee for the issue or renewal of a lease is $200.




(2)

The yearly rent for a lease is $10/ha.






Development of a geothermal resource




9

(1)


The minister may, on application by a permittee, approve a program to
develop a geothermal resource.




(2)

An application under subsection (1) must include




(a)

a geothermal report that includes an assessment of hydrological,
geothermal and geological conditions in the reservoir, and




(b)

any other information required by the minister.






Samples and cores




10


A permittee must prepare and deliver to the core lab, within 30 days
of the release of the drilling rig, samples and cores taken from the
well.






Release of information




11

(1)


Subject to this section, geothermal reports and well reports and well
data that are received by the ministry and the commission in the
course of the administration of the Act must be held confidential by
the ministry and the commission.




(2)

Geothermal reports must be released from confidential status 2 years
after the date of termination of the permit or 5 years after the date
the permit is converted to a lease.




(3)

Well reports and well data must be released from confidential status 2
years after the date of release of the drilling rig for that well.




(4)

Samples and cores that are taken from a well must be released from
confidential status 2 years after the date of release of the drilling
rig for that well.




(5)

The following information must be made available to the public at all
times during business hours:




(a)

well applications, well locations, ground elevation and drilling
status of a well;




(b)

permits, leases and locations.




(6)

Geothermal reports and well reports and well data may be released from
confidential status




(a)

if, for any reason, the rights to the well have reverted to the Crown,
or




(b)

with the concurrence of the person who submitted the information to
the ministry or commission.




(7)

Geothermal reports and well reports and well data may be made
available by the ministry or the commission to the government of
Canada or an agency of the government of Canada if that government or
agency gives adequate assurance that the information will be kept in
confidence within that government or agency.




(8)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may release, or order the
commission to release, geothermal reports or well reports and well
data at any time if the Lieutenant Governor in Council considers it in
the public interest to do so.






Environmental Protection and Management Regulation




12

(1)


In this section,
"the applied regulation"
means the Environmental Protection and Management Regulation, B.C.
Reg. 200/2010, other than section 8.1.




(2)

The applied regulation applies to a permittee and lessee with the
modifications set out in this section.




(3)

A reference in the applied regulation to the Act must be read as if it
were a reference to the

Geothermal Resources Act

.




(4)

Section 1 (1) of the applied regulation is modified by adding the
following definition:



"geothermal activity"

means




(a)

geophysical exploration,




(b)

the exploration for and development of geothermal resources,




(c)

the production, gathering, processing and storage of geothermal
resources, and




(d)

the construction of a facility.




(5)

Section 1 (1) of the applied regulation is modified by deleting the
definitions of "oil and gas activity" and "oil and gas road".




(6)

Section 1 (1) of the applied regulation is modified by deleting the
definition of "road right of way" and substituting the following:



"road right of way"

means




(a)

the area that is shown or described in an authorization to construct a
road for the purposes of geothermal activity as the road corridor
within which the road may be constructed or modified, or




(b)

if the authorization does not show or describe the area within which
the road may be constructed or modified, the area 17.5 m of either
side of the centre line of the road.




(7)

A reference in the applied regulation to oil and gas activity must be
read as a reference to geothermal activity and a reference in the
applied regulation to oil and gas activities must be read as a
reference to geothermal activities.




(8)

Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the applied regulation are modified by deleting
"are prescribed for the purposes of the definition of "government's
environmental objectives" in section 1 (2) of the Act:" and
substituting "are government's environmental objectives for the
purposes of section 8 of this regulation:".




(9)

Section 7 of the applied regulation is modified by deleting "the
definition of "government's environmental objectives" in section 1 (2)
of the Act, the following objectives are prescribed:" and substituting
"section 8 of this regulation, the following government's
environmental objectives are set out:".




(10)

Section 8 of the applied regulation is modified by deleting section 8
and substituting the following:






Criterion





8


In deciding whether to issue a well authorization under section
12 of the Act, the commission must consider whether the issuance
of the well authorization is consistent with the government's
environmental objectives set out in Division 1 of this Part.






[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Geothermal Resources Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 171, s. 24.]



