







B.C. Reg. 293/2023

O.C. 725/2023


Deposited December 18, 2023

effective January 29, 2024





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Intimate Images Protection Act


Intimate Images Protection Regulation






Definition




1


In this regulation,
"Act"
means the

Intimate Images Protection Act

.






Factors that decision maker must consider under section 5 of Act




2


Factors that the decision maker must consider under section
5 (2), (3), (4) and (5) of the Act include




(a)

the potential for an expedited order to mitigate harm,




(b)

the personal circumstances of the individual depicted in the intimate
image, and




(c)

the circumstances in which the individual is depicted in the intimate
image.






Classes of individuals who may apply under section 5 of Act on
behalf of deceased individual




3


Classes of individuals who may apply to the decision maker for relief
under section 5 of the Act on behalf of a deceased individual are
as follows:




(a)

the deceased individual's nearest relatives, as defined in
section 5 (1) of the Freedom of Information and Protection
of Privacy Regulation;




(b)

personal representatives of the deceased individual;




(c)

adults who, in the opinion of the decision maker, are suitable persons
to apply on behalf of the deceased individual.






Age at which minor may apply under section 5 of Act on behalf of
self




4


A minor who is 14 years of age or over may apply to the tribunal
for relief under section 5 of the Act on the minor's behalf.






Age at which minor may authorize another to apply under section 5
of Act on minor's behalf




5


A minor who is 12 years of age or over may authorize another
individual to apply to the tribunal for relief under section 5 of
the Act on the minor's behalf.






Class of individuals who may be authorized by minor to apply under
section 5 of Act on minor's behalf




6


For the purposes of section 8 (2) (a) of the Act,
adults whose relationship with the minor depicted in the intimate
image can be characterized as a relationship of trust, as determined
by that minor, are in a prescribed class.






Class of individuals who may be authorized by adult to apply under
section 5 of Act on adult's behalf




7


For the purposes of section 8 (2) (b) of the Act,
adults whose relationship with the adult depicted in the intimate
image can be characterized as a relationship of trust, as determined
by the adult depicted in the intimate image, are in a prescribed
class.






Factor that decision maker must consider in determining whether to
cancel publication ban once respondent is no longer a minor




8


In determining whether to cancel a ban on the publication of a
respondent's name once the respondent is no longer a minor, the
decision maker must consider whether the respondent has given consent
for the ban to be cancelled.






Maximum administrative penalty amounts




9

(1)


If an order made under section 5 of the Act is not complied with,
an administrative penalty may be imposed under section 16 of the
Act as follows:




(a)

in the case of an individual, a maximum of $500 per day that the
individual fails to comply with the order, up to a total maximum of
$10 000, and




(b)

in the case of an internet intermediary or other person or
organization, a maximum of $5 000 per day that the internet
intermediary or other person or organization fails to comply with the
order, up to a total maximum of $100 000.




(2)

If failure to comply with the order referred to in subsection (1)
continues after the administrative penalty under subsection (1)
has been imposed,




(a)

additional administrative penalties may be imposed for each day the
contravention continues, and




(b)

each penalty imposed must not exceed the applicable penalty amounts
referred to in subsection (1) (a) and (b).






Date that administrative penalty amount must be paid




10


The date that an administrative penalty amount must be paid is the
date that the notice of administrative penalty is received by the
person required to pay it.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Intimate Images Protection Act

, S.B.C. 2023, c. 11, s. 21 (2).]



