







B.C. Reg. 409/97

O.C. 1325/97


Deposited December 5, 1997






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Public Service Benefit Plan Act


Long Term Disability Plan Regulation


[Last amended September 11, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 208/2023]




Part I





Definitions




1.1


In this regulation:



"active employment"

or

"active service"

means time actually worked as a regular status employee. Where the LTD
plan requires completion of a period of active employment (or
service), that amount of time must be worked by the employee. Time not
worked during the active employment (service) period, (such as sick
leave or unpaid leave) must be made up before it will count as
"active". Time not worked because of vacation or certain other leaves,
however, will be credited as "active". It should be noted that such
leaves are not normally granted during the active employment or
service period;


"basic pay"
means the rate of pay for the job, including add-to-pay resulting from
salary protection;



"unbroken employment"

as it applies to long term disability eligibility for regular
employees converted from auxiliary status, has the same meaning as
"active employment" and "active service", such that eligibility for
benefits is established where, immediately prior to the date of
disability, the employee was qualified for short term disability
benefits for a period of six months.

[am. B.C. Reg. 438/2004, s. 1.]





Interpretation




1.2







(a)

The Long Term Disability benefit is calculated on basic pay.




(b)

Where an employee/appointee has sick bank credits, basic pay will
continue during the first part of the long term disability benefit
period until the sick bank is exhausted. The employee/appointee will
be considered to be on a seven hour day and a five/two shift pattern
for purposes of calculating the sick bank usage. The
employee/appointee is on Long Term Disability Benefits while utilizing
the sick bank credits and is therefore governed by the Long Term
Disability Plan provisions.




(c)

Each section of the Long Term Disability Plan applies to all persons
listed in Schedule A except,




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 10.]




(ii)

with respect to persons employed by British Columbia Ferry Services
Inc.:




(A)

"Screening Committee" is substituted for "Rehabilitation Committee";




(B)

the third party wage loss claim set out in section 2.6 (e) does not
apply;




(C)

section 2.8 is renamed "Cessation of Coverage";




(D)

the following paragraph is substituted for section 2.8 (a) (i):


"(i) on the date that is six months prior to the employee's 65th
birthday;".




(d)

To maintain coverage while on a leave of absence without pay, the rate
of contribution of an employee towards payment of premiums is
established by the Plan Administrator.


[am. B.C. Regs. 386/99, App. 3, s. 1; 444/2003, App. 3, s. 1;
438/2004, App. 3, s. 2; 143/2006, s. 10.]




Part II — Long Term Disability Plan





Eligibility




2.1







(a)

Regular full-time employees shall be covered by the Long Term
Disability Plan upon completion of six months active employment with
the employer. To be covered by the plan, a regular part-time employee
must be working in a position that requires at least half-time work on
a regularly scheduled basis, and must have completed six (6) months
active service in such a position.



An employee must submit an LTD Plan application within four (4) weeks
following the end of the applicable Short Term Illness and Injury Plan
period. An employee who fails to submit an application within the four
(4) weeks will be presumed to have abandoned the employee's claim for
Long Term Disability benefits. An employee shall be afforded the
opportunity to rebut such presumption to the LTD Plan Administrator
and demonstrate that there were reasonable grounds for not having
submitted an application within the four (4) weeks. Where an employee
covered by Plan Type A or B described in Schedule A, is converted from
auxiliary to regular status, plan coverage shall commence the earlier
of 2.1 (a) above, or upon the completion of six (6) months of
full-time, unbroken employment from the date the employee qualified
for Short Term Illness and Injury Plan benefits under Article 31.12 of
the B.C. Government and Service Employees' Union master agreement or
under the appropriate section of the employee's terms and conditions
of employment.




(b)

An employee who is not actively at work because of illness or injury
on the work day coincident with, or immediately preceding, the date
the employee would otherwise have become eligible for coverage under
the plan will not be eligible for coverage until the date the employee
returns to active employment.




(c)

Coverage under the plan is a condition of employment.


[am. B.C. Regs. 438/2004, App. 3, s. 3; 143/2006, s. 11; 208/2023, s.
1.]






Long term disability benefit




2.2







(a)

During the Long Term Disability Plan period under paragraph (a),
employees will be considered to be on LTD status as described in
paragraph (d), and therefore not entitled to vacation or other benefit
credits.




(a.1)

In the event an employee, while covered under this plan, becomes
totally disabled as a result of an accident or a sickness, then, after
the employee has been totally disabled for a period as set out in the
applicable Short Term Illness and Injury Plan, including periods
approved under the Recurring Disability section of the applicable
Short Term Illness and Injury Plan, the employee shall be eligible to
receive a monthly benefit as follows:




(i)

while the employee has a sick bank balance to be used on a day-for-day
basis, full monthly earnings will continue until the sick bank is
exhausted, and section 2.6 below will not apply;




(ii)

when an employee has no sick bank, or after it is exhausted, the
employee shall receive a monthly benefit equal to the sum of:


Plan Type A — an amount specific to each employee group listed in
Schedule A, as established by the agency responsible for administering
this regulation in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions
of employment;


Plan Type B — an amount specific to each employee group listed in
Schedule A, as established by the agency responsible for administering
this regulation in accordance with the applicable collective
agreement;


Plan Type E — 70% of the first $2 300 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 300;


Plan Type H — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type I — 68.3% of the first $2 500 of monthly earnings and 50% of
the monthly earnings above $2 500;


Plan Type J — 70% of the regular gross monthly earnings.




(b)

For the purposes of 2.2 (a) above, earnings shall mean basic monthly
earnings as at the date of disability as determined by the employer.


The basic monthly earnings as at the date of disability shall be the
basic pay in effect for the last month of the Short Term Illness and
Injury Plan period, or period of equivalent duration, taking into
consideration any retroactive adjustments. The date of disability for
determining the commencement of the first two (2) years (25 months for
Plan Types A and B) of disability shall be the day following the last
month of the Short Term Illness and Injury Plan period, or of a period
of equivalent duration.




(c)

The Long Term Disability benefit payment will be made as long as an
employee remains totally disabled in accordance with section 2.3
below, and will cease on the date the employee recovers, or at the end
of the month in which the employee reaches age 65 (age 60 for
firefighters and correctional centre employees), or resigns or dies,
whichever occurs first.




(d)

An employee in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits will be
considered an employee for purposes of superannuation and will
continue to be covered by the group life, extended health, dental and
medical plans established under an enactment. An employee also remains
eligible for retirement allowance and pre-retirement leave provided
the employee has completed the required years of service prior to
receipt of Long Term Disability benefits and otherwise meets the
requirements of the retirement allowance and pre-retirement provisions
where such a leave or allowance is provided in a collective agreement
or term and condition of employment. Employees will not be covered by
any other provision of a collective agreement or term and condition of
employment but will retain the right of access to a Rehabilitation
Committee established thereunder and will retain seniority rights
should they return to employment within nine (9) months following
cessation of benefits. A temporary assignment or auxiliary appointment
will not disqualify an employee from the 9 month access period.




(e)

When an employee is in receipt of the benefit described in 2.2 (a)
(ii) above, contributions required for benefit plans in 2.2 (d) above
and contributions for superannuation will be waived by the employer.




(f)

An employee engaged in rehabilitative employment with the employer and
who is receiving partial Long Term Disability benefit payments will
have contributions required for benefit plans in 2.2 (d) above and
contributions for superannuation waived by the employer, except that
superannuation contributions shall be deducted from any salary
received from the employer to cover the period of rehabilitative
employment.




(f.1)

For certainty, an employee described in paragraph (f) is entitled to
the paid leave described in section 49.1 (1) (a) of the Employment
Standards Act.




(g)

Benefit Continuation — coverage under the LTD Plan continues
uninterrupted if an employee is




(i)

granted leave of absence with pay,




(ii)

working at least half time on a regularly scheduled basis,




(iii)

transferred or granted a break in service or leave of absence without
pay for a period of less than one full calendar month and returns to
service, either to the same group or to another group covered under
these plans with the exception of the wage loss benefits, or




(iv)

on an approved maternity/parental/adoption leave authorized by the
applicable terms and conditions of employment.


[am. B.C. Regs. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 1; 3/2004, s. 1; 438/2004, App.
3, s. 4; 143/2006, s. 12; 64/2019; 181/2020, s. 1; 208/2023, ss. 2 and
3.]






Total disability




2.3







(a)

For employees covered by Plan Type A or B —
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first 25 months of disability
except where accommodation has been made which enables an employee to
work




(i)

in the employee's own occupation, or




(ii)

in a job other than the employee's occupation.


Where accommodation has been made which enables an employee to return
to work, the employee will not be considered totally disabled and the
rate of pay shall be the rate for the job.


If the rate of pay for this job is less than the rate of pay of the
employee at the date of disability, the employee's salary will be
protected in accordance with the relevant provision of the employee's
collective agreement, or terms and conditions of employment, at the
employee's basic rate at the date of disability.


After the first two years (25 months for Plan Types A and B) of total
disability, where accommodation has been made that enables an employee
to return to a job other than the employee's own occupation, the
employee will not be considered totally disabled and the basic rate
shall be the basic rate of the job or 75% of the basic rate of the
employee's own occupation, whichever is greater.


After the first two years (25 months for Plan Types A and B) of total
disability, employees able, by reason of education, training or
experience, to perform the duties of a gainful occupation for which
the rate of pay is not less than 75% of the current rate of pay of
their regular occupation at the date of disability will not be
considered totally disabled and will therefore not be eligible for
benefits under this Long Term Disability Plan.




(b)

For employees covered by Plan Type E —
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or sickness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first two years of
disability. After the first 2 years of total disability, employees
able by reason of education, training or experience, to perform the
duties of a gainful occupation for which the rate of pay is not less
than 75% of the current rate of pay of their regular occupation at the
date of disability will not be considered totally disabled and will
therefore not be eligible for benefits under this Long Term Disability
Plan.


For employees covered by Plan Type H,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of an
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first two years of
disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type I,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation for the first two years (24 months)
of disability.


For employees covered by Plan Type J,
"total disability"
, as used in this Plan, means the complete inability, because of
accident or illness, of a covered employee to perform all the duties
of the employee's own occupation.




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 4 (b).]




(d)

During a period of total disability an employee must be under the
regular and personal care of a legally qualified doctor of medicine.




(e)





(i)

For employees covered by Plan Type A, B, H or I — if an employee
becomes totally disabled and, during this period of total disability,
engages in rehabilitative employment, the employee may earn in
combination with benefits from this Plan up to 100% of the employee's
earnings at the date of disability. In the event that income from
rehabilitative employment and the benefit paid under this Plan exceed
100% of the employee's earnings at the date of disability, the benefit
from this Plan will be further reduced by the excess amount.




(ii)

For employees covered by Plan Type E or J — if an employee becomes
totally disabled and, during this period of total disability, engages
in rehabilitative employment, the regular monthly benefit from this
plan will be reduced by 25% of the employee's earnings from such
rehabilitative employment. In the event that income from
rehabilitative employment and the benefit paid under this plan exceed
85% of the employee's earnings at the date of disability, the benefit
from this plan will be further reduced by the excess amount.




(iii)

"Rehabilitative employment"
shall mean any occupation or employment for wage or profit or any
course or training that entitles the disabled employee to an
allowance, provided such rehabilitative employment has the approval of
the employee's doctor and the employer.




(iv)

The rehabilitative employment of a disabled employee will continue
until such time as the employee's earnings from rehabilitative
employment reach 100% of the employee's earnings at the date of
disability but in no event for more than 25 months from the date
benefit payments commence.




(v)

If earnings are received by an employee during a period of total
disability and if such earnings are derived from employment which has
not been approved as rehabilitative employment by the employee's
doctor and the employer, then the regular monthly benefit from the
plan will be reduced by 100% of such earnings if such earnings are in
excess of $200 per month.




(f)

In the event that an employee has been classified as totally disabled
for all occupations and engages in approved rehabilitative employment,
the provisions of 2.3 (e) above apply except that the rehabilitative
employment may continue for 24 months (25 months for Plan Types A and
B) from the date rehabilitative employment commenced.




(g)

In the case where rehabilitative employment has been approved while an
employee is receiving a benefit under the provisions of section 2.2
(a) (i), the provisions of section 2.3 (e) shall not apply until the
employee is receiving a benefit under section 2.2 (a) (ii).


[en. B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 343/2002, App. 3,
s. 2; 444/2003, App. 3, s. 2; 3/2004, s. 2; 438/2004, App. 3, s. 5;
143/2006, s. 13; 76/2022, ss. 4, 9 and 10; 208/2023, s. 4.]






Exclusions from coverage




2.4


The Long Term Disability Plan does not cover total disabilities
resulting from:




(a)

war, insurrection, rebellion, or service in the armed forces of any
country after the commencement of this plan;




(b)

voluntary participation in a riot or civil commotion except while an
employee is in the course of performing the duties of the employee's
regular occupation;




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 5 (a).]




(d)

for employees covered under Plan Types D and E pregnancy, childbirth,
miscarriage or abortion except severe complications following
termination of pregnancy (intention is no coverage for normal
pregnancy);




(e)

for employees covered by Plan Type E a disability known to the
employer and which was specifically taken into account by the employer
at time of hiring.


[am. B.C. Regs. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 3; 143/2006, s. 14; 208/2023, s.
5.]






Pre-existing conditions




2.5


An employee shall not be entitled to Long Term Disability benefits
from this plan if the employee's total disability resulted from an
illness or injury with respect to which medical treatment, services or
supplies were received in the ninety (90) day period prior to the date
of hire unless the employee has completed twelve (12) consecutive
months of service after the date of hire during which time the
employee has not been absent from work due to the aforementioned
illness or injury with respect to which medical treatment, services or
supplies were received. This clause does not apply to an employee who
has been continuously employed for the period of five (5) years
immediately preceding the employee's claim.


[am. B.C. Regs. 386/99, App. 3, s. 3; 343/2002, s. 4; 208/2023, s. 6.]






Integration with other disability income




2.6







(a)

In the event a totally disabled employee is entitled to any other
income as a result of the same illness or injury that caused the
employee to be eligible to receive benefits from this plan, the
benefits from this plan will be reduced by one hundred (100) percent
of such other disability income.




(b)

Other disability income shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to:




(i)

any amount payable under the

Workers' Compensation Act

or Law or any other legislation of similar purpose;




(ii)

any amount the disabled employee receives from any group insurance,
wage continuation or pension plan of the employer that provides
disability or retirement income;




(iii)

any amount of disability income provided by any compulsory act or law;




(iv)

any periodic primary benefit payment from the Canada or Quebec Pension
Plans or other similar social security plan of any country to which
the disabled employee is entitled or to which the employee would be
entitled if the application for such a benefit was approved;




(v)

any amount of disability income provided by any group or association
disability plan to which the disabled employee might belong or
subscribe.




(c)

The amount by which the disability benefit from this plan is reduced
by other disability income will normally be the amount to which the
disabled employee is entitled upon becoming first eligible for such
other disability income. Future increases in such other disability
income resulting from increases in the Canadian Consumer Price Index
or similar indexing arrangements will not further reduce the benefit
from this plan.




(d)

Notwithstanding section 2.6 (a) through 2.6 (c), in the case of
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC) Weekly Indemnity
payments or personal insurance coverage, integration will apply to the
extent that the combination of plan benefits and ICBC Weekly Indemnity
payments or personal insurance disability income benefits exceed
either




(i)

one hundred (100) percent of basic pay, or




(ii)

the applicable benefit percentage of the individual average total
monthly income in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding
commencement of the disability, whichever is the greater. Where this
provision is to apply, the employee will be required to provide
satisfactory evidence of the employee's total monthly income.




(e)

Notwithstanding section 2.6 (a) through 2.6 (d), where an employee
makes a successful wage loss claim against a third party for an injury
for which the employee received or would receive Long Term Disability
benefits, the employer will be entitled to recover or decrease plan
benefits by an amount equal to the amount that plan benefits in
combination with the wage loss claim paid exceed one hundred (100)
percent of basic pay.




(f)

For employees covered by Plan Type A, B, H, I or J, section 2.6 (e)
above is subject to the following:




(i)

the amount of plan benefit recovered or decreased will be reduced
limited to the legal fees attributed to the employer's share based on
the same ratio as the employer's interest in the amount recovered to
the total recovery;




(ii)

the existence of an action commenced by or on behalf of an employee
does not preclude the employer from joining the employee's action or
commencing an action on its own behalf respecting the benefits paid;




(iii)

where the employer or the employee intends to commence or join such an
action, they shall advise the other in writing of that intention.




(g)

This section does not apply to a war disability pension paid under an
act of the Governments of Canada or other Commonwealth countries.


[am. B.C. Regs. 386/99, App. 3, s. 4; 343/2002, App. 3, s. 5;
438/2004, App. 3, s. 6; 143/2006, s. 15; 208/2023, s. 7.]






Successive disabilities




2.7







(a)

If, following a period of total disability with respect to which
benefits are paid from this plan, an employee returns to work on a
full-time basis for a continuous period of six (6) months or more, any
subsequent total disability suffered by that employee, whether related
to the preceding disability or not, shall be considered a new
disability and the disabled employee shall be entitled to benefit
payments in accordance with the provisions of this plan.




(b)

In the event the period during which such an employee has returned to
work is less than six (6) months and the employee again suffers a
total disability related to the preceding disability, the subsequent
disability shall be deemed a continuation of the preceding disability
and the disabled employee shall be entitled to benefit payments in
accordance with the provisions of the plan as though the employee had
not returned to work.




(c)

Should such an employee suffer a subsequent disability that is
unrelated to the previous disability, the subsequent disability shall
be considered a new disability and the employee shall be entitled to
benefit payments in accordance with the provisions of this plan.




(d)

Limitation of benefits for successive disabilities in (b) and (c)
above must be determined within one year from the date of absence due
to successive disabilities.

[am. B.C. Regs. 143/2006, s. 16; 208/2023, s. 8.]





Cessation of benefits




2.8







(a)

An employee shall cease to be eligible for benefits of this plan at
the earliest of the following dates:




(i)

at the end of the month in which the employee reaches the employee's
65th birthday (60th birthday for firefighters and correctional centre
employees);




(ii)

on the date of commencement of paid absence prior to retirement;




(iii)

on the date of termination of employment with the employer.




(b)

Benefits will not be paid for any period when an employee is detained,
confined or imprisoned in a prison or similar institution.




(c)

Cessation of active employment as a regular employee shall be
considered termination of employment except when an employee is on
authorized leave of absence with or without pay.




(d)

When a regular employee becomes an auxiliary employee, LTD Plan
Coverage ceases on the date of employment status change.


[am. B.C. Regs. 438/2004, App. 3, s. 7; 143/2006, s. 17; 181/2020, s.
2; 76/2022, s. 10; 208/2023, s. 9.]






Leave of absence




2.9

(1)


Employees on leave of absence without pay may opt to retain coverage
under the plan for a period not to exceed 24 months, provided that the
employee pays the full premium.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), an employee is not required to pay the full
premium if




(a)

the employee is on approved Maternity/Parental/Pre-Placement Adoption
Leave, or




(b)

the leave of absence is for the purpose of working for or volunteering
with CUSO.

[en. B.C. Reg. 129/2007, App. 3.]





Benefits upon plan termination




2.10


In the event this Long Term Disability Plan is terminated, the benefit
payments shall continue to be paid in accordance with the provisions
of this plan to disabled employees who become disabled while covered
by this plan prior to its termination.






Contributions




2.11


Unless provided otherwise, the cost of this plan will be borne by the
employer.






Waiver of contributions




2.12


Employee contributions to this plan shall be waived with respect to
disabled employees during the time such an employee is in receipt of
disability benefit payments from this plan.






Claims




2.13







(a)

Long Term Disability claims will be adjudicated and paid by a
claims-paying agent to be appointed by the employer. In the event a
covered employee disputes the decision of the claims-paying agent
regarding a claim for benefits under this plan, the employee may
arrange to have the claim reviewed by a Claims Review Committee
composed of three (3) medical doctors; one (1) designated by the
claimant, one (1) by the employer, and a third agreed to by the first
two. Written notice of a disputed claim or an appeal under this plan
shall be sent to the Plan Administrator.




(b)

For employees covered by Plan Type A, B, H, I or J:




(i)

Written notice of an appeal must be submitted to the Plan
Administrator within 60 days from the date the claims-paying agent
rejected the claim. Due to extenuating circumstances, the time frame
may be extended by the Plan Administrator.




(ii)

Where the claims-paying agent denies benefits due to insufficient
medical evidence being provided, an employee will have 60 days in
which to provide satisfactory medical evidence to support the claim.


In such circumstances, the 60-day appeal period in (i) above will not
commence until the claims-paying agent renders its decision based on
the medical evidence provided.


Where the employee fails to provide further satisfactory medical
evidence within the 60-day period, the claim will be deemed to have
been denied and the appeal period in (i) above shall commence.




(c)

For employees covered by Plan Type E, written notice of an appeal must
be submitted to the Plan Administrator within 6 months from the date
the claim-paying agent rejects the claim.




(d)

The expenses incurred by a Claims Review Committee may be paid by the
Plan in accordance with the relevant collective agreement or terms and
conditions of employment.




(e)

Where an employee has disputed the decision of the claims-paying agent
and is awaiting the outcome of a review or an appeal, the employee
will be considered to be on leave of absence without pay during the
portion of the waiting period when not receiving pay or benefit
allowance. During the waiting period an employee will continue to be
covered by group life, extended health, dental and medical plans.




(f)

For employees covered by Plan Type A, B, H, I or J — LTD benefits
received will be reduced by the same amount of any benefits received
for the same period under the

Employment and Assistance Act

or the


Employment and Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act


, except where the benefits received for that period under those Acts
are repaid to the government. Where the employee has been deemed
eligible for benefits, under one or both of those Acts, which exceed
the LTD benefits level, LTD benefits will not be subject to reduction
for that additional amount.


[am. B.C. Regs 386/99, App. 3, s. 5; 343/2002, App. 3, s. 6; 438/2004,
App. 3, s. 9; 143/2006, s. 18; 208/2023, s. 10.]






Physical examination




2.14


The employer, at its own expense, shall have the right and be given
the opportunity to have a medical doctor appointed by the employer
examine, as often as it may reasonably require, any employee whose
illness or injury is the basis of claim upon this plan.

[am. B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 11.]





Canadian currency




2.15


All monies payable to or from this plan shall be payable in Canada in
Canadian currency.






Administration




2.16


The employer will be the administrator of the plan. All questions
arising as to the interpretation of this plan shall be subject to the
grievance and arbitration procedures in the applicable master
agreement, or other dispute resolution process in the terms and
conditions of employment.






Implementation by regulation




2.17


The provisions of this Plan shall become part of a memorandum of
agreement between the parties and will be implemented by regulations.

[en. B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 6.]





Benefit level




2.18


Persons receiving benefits under this plan shall receive the same
increases to their benefit level as granted in wage increases under
the applicable collective agreement or terms and conditions of
employment.

[en. B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 6.]





Repealed




2.19


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 7.]






Rehabilitation




2.20


This section applies to those employees appointed under the

Public Service Act

who are covered by Plan Type A or B:


In the event that a regular employee becomes incapacitated through
accident or sickness and is unable to perform all the duties of the
employee's own occupation, the following shall apply:




(a)

For the purpose of this section,
"incapacity"
shall mean where the employee is unable to perform all the duties of
the employee's own occupation as defined in the Long Term Disability
Plan.




(b)

Where the employee meets the definition in 2.20 (a) above, the
employer shall provide an employee with an application to the
Rehabilitation Committee. An employee who fails to




(i)

sign the application form,




(ii)

be reasonably available and cooperate with a reasonable
rehabilitation/return to work process, or




(iii)

actively engage in a treatment program where the employee's physician
determines it to be appropriate to be involved in such a program,

shall have benefits suspended.

Prior to having benefits suspended, an employee shall be afforded an
opportunity to demonstrate that there were reasonable grounds for
failing to meet the above obligations.




(c)

The application shall be completed and returned to the Secretary to
the Rehabilitation Committee within 10 work days. The committee
members shall be provided with copies of the application.




(d)

The Rehabilitation Committee will, based on the information,
coordinate the necessary medical and/or vocational assessments and
determine the following:




(i)

if the application is properly before the committee;




(ii)

based on the assessment, determine whether the employee is immediately
capable of performing modified, alternative or rehabilitative
employment;




(iii)

if no to (ii) above the committee may, based on the assessments,
implement the necessary training to place the employee in alternative
or rehabilitative employment;




(iv)

in considering modified, alternative or rehabilitative employment, the
committee may provide advice and make recommendations to the
ministry/employer to return the incapacitated employee to work
considering the following accommodations:




(a)

modification of the duties of the employee's job;




(b)

flexibility in scheduling hours of work within existing hours of
operation;




(c)

provision of technical or mechanical aids.




(e)





(i)

Where the employee is considered capable of performing alternative
employment or once the rehabilitative employment is considered to be
successful, and the employee is therefore able to perform the duties
of a gainful occupation, the employee may be referred for placement to
a public service position.




(ii)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 8 (3).]




(f)

A public service employee in receipt of Short Term Illness and Injury
Plan benefits, whose prognosis for return to work exceeds 8 weeks, may
be referred to the Rehabilitation Committee if the Occupational Health
Programs determines it is medically appropriate to do so.




(g)

In those cases where a return to their own occupation is unlikely,
public service employees may be referred, by either party, to the
Rehabilitation Committee while on the Short Term Illness and Injury
Plan. In such cases, section 2.20 (c), (d) and (e) above will apply.




(h)

Where an employee has a physical occupational illness or injury, the
ministry/employer will, where feasible, accommodate the employee's
incapacity so as to avoid a time loss illness or injury. Where a time
loss illness or injury occurs, the compensation payable will be in
keeping with the provisions of the Short Term Illness and Injury and
the Long Term Disability Plans.




(i)

Where the ministry/employer has concerns with recommendations made in
accordance with section 2.20 (d) (iv) above, the concerns will be
reviewed with the Rehabilitation Committee.


[en. B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 343/2002, App. 3,
s. 8; 438/2004, App. 3, s. 10; 143/2006, s. 19; 76/2022, ss. 10 and
11; 208/2023, s. 12.]




Part III





Regulation citation




3


This regulation may be cited as the Provincial Long Term Disability
Plan Regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 9.]





Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 13.]






Persons to whom Plan applies




5


The persons to whom the Long Term Disability Plan applies are
specified in Schedule A to this regulation.






Rate of contribution of employee




6


The rate of contribution of an employee toward payment of premiums,
where the employee is on an employer approved leave of absence without
pay, will be at a rate established by the agency responsible for
administering this regulation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 7.]



Schedule A


[am. B.C. Regs. 386/99, App. 3, s. 8; 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10; 444/2003,
App. 3, ss. 3 to 8; 438/2004, App. 3, ss. 11 to 13; 542/2004; 336/2005,
ss. 5 and 6; 91/2006; 143/2006, ss. 20 to 22; 4/2008, s. 3; 5/2009, App.
3; 15/2010, App. 3; 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1; 145/2013, App. 2, s. 9;
155/2014, Sch. C; 208/2023, ss. 14 to 17.]


Part II of this regulation outlines the Long Term Disability plans found
in the governing terms and conditions of employment or collective
agreements of participating employees, agencies, boards, and
commissions. The major plan types and the employees covered are:






A


Plan Type A applies to employees as follows:




(a)

all regular public service employees who are excluded from the
provisions of a collective agreement;




(b)

all eligible regular ministers' secretaries and other administrative
support employees appointed under section 15 of the
Public Service Act
;




(c)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10 (1).]




(d)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 14 (a).]




(e)

all eligible regular employees of Government House, Victoria, British
Columbia;




(f)

all eligible regular officers and employees of Innovate BC;




(g)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(h)

all eligible regular employees of the British Columbia Utilities
Commission appointed under the
Utilities Commission Act
;




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(j)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 438/2004, App. 3, s. 11 (a).]




(k)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/2003, App. 3, s. 3 (a).]




(l)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 8 (1) (b).]




(m)

all eligible regular persons appointed by an order of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council where applicability is specified in the appointing
order;




(n)

the eligible regular chair and associate chairs of the Labour
Relations Board who opt to be covered by the Plan and who do not have
coverage under any other Long Term Disability Plan under which
premiums are paid by the Province of British Columbia;




(o)

all eligible regular full-time employees and excluded personnel of the
Legislative Assembly, including employees of the Office of the
Speaker, Office of the Clerk, Hansard staff, Legislative Library staff
and staff of the Sergeant-at-Arms;




(p)

all eligible regular full-time employees of legislative caucuses;




(q)

all eligible regular full-time employees paid under Vote 1 and working
in a caucus capacity, such as persons working in offices of
independent Members;




(r)

all eligible regular officers of the Legislative Assembly;




(s)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/2003, App. 3, s. 3 (a).]




(t)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(u)

all eligible regular employees of the Office of the Commissioner of
Conflict of Interest;




(v)

full-time commissioners and all eligible regular employees of the B.C.
Treaty Commission;




(w)

all eligible regular employees of the Public Sector Employers'
Council;




(x)-(y)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/2003, App. 3, s. 3 (a).]




(z)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(aa)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10 (4).]




(bb)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Securities Commission;




(cc)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/2003, App. 3, s. 3 (a).]




(dd)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Employment Standards
Tribunal;




(ee)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the First Peoples'
Heritage, Language and Culture Council;




(ff)

all eligible regular excluded employees of Islands Trust;




(gg)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 14 (d).]




(hh)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (a).]




(ii)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 14 (d).]




(jj)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10 (4).]




(kk)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(ll)-(mm)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 20 (b).]




(nn)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10 (4).]




(oo)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 20 (b).]




(pp)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (a).]




(qq)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(rr)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Office of the Police
Complaints Commission;




(ss)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 20 (b).]




(tt)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Investment Management Corporation;




(uu)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Pension Corporation;




(vv)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Royal BC Museum;




(ww)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 15/2010, App. 3, s. 1.]




(xx)

all eligible regular excluded employees of Infrastructure BC Inc.;




(yy)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the British Columbia
Excluded Employees' Association;




(zz)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Workers' Compensation
Appeal Tribunal;




(aaa)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Freshwater Fisheries
Society;




(bbb)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Business Practices and
Consumer Protection Authority;




(ccc)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 4/2008, s. 3 (a).]




(ddd)

all eligible regular excluded employees of Community Living British
Columbia;




(eee)

all eligible full-time employees whose terms and conditions of
employment are those of, or are equivalent to those established for,
category C appointments under Order in Council 806/89;




(fff)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Transportation
Investment Corporation;




(ggg)

all eligible regular excluded employees of the Habitat Conservation
Trust Foundation;




(hhh)

all eligible regular employees of the British Columbia Energy
Regulator;




(iii)

all eligible regular employees of the InBC Investment Corp.;




(jjj)

all eligible regular excluded employees of BC Infrastructure Benefits
Inc.







B


Plan Type B applies to employees as follows:




(a)

all regular public service employees who are represented by the B.C.
Government and Service Employees' Union;




(b)

all regular public service employees of the Liquor Distribution Branch
who are represented by the B.C. Government and Service Employees'
Union;




(c)

all regular public service employees who are represented by the
Professional Employees' Association;




(d)

all eligible regular employees of the King's Printer;




(e)-(f)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(g)

all eligible regular employees of the Labour Relations Board covered
by the Association agreement;




(h)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(i)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 343/2002, App. 3, s. 10 (7).]




(j)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 444/2003, App. 3, s. 4 (a).]




(k)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of Islands Trust;




(l)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 15 (b).]




(m)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (b).]




(n)-(o)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 15 (b).]




(p)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(q)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (b).]




(r)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 15 (b).]




(s)

all regular public service employees who are represented by the
British Columbia Nurses' Union;




(t)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(u)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (b).]




(v)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 15 (b).]




(w)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 21.]




(x)

all eligible regular employees of the Professional Employees
Association;




(y)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 21.]




(z)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 155/2014, Sch. C, s. 1 (b).]




(aa)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 21.]




(bb)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1.]




(cc)

all eligible regular employees of the British Columbia Pension
Corporation;




(dd)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Royal BC Museum;




(ee)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 15/2010, App. 3, s. 21.]




(ff)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Freshwater
Fisheries Society;




(gg)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Business
Practices and Consumer Protection Authority;




(hh)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 4/2008, s. 3 (b).]




(ii)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of Community Living
British Columbia;




(jj)

all eligible regular bargaining unit employees of the Habitat
Conservation Trust Foundation.







C


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 386/99, App. 3, s. 8 (3).]







D


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 208/2023, s. 16.]







E


Plan Type E applies to all eligible regular bargaining unit employees
of British Columbia Ferry Services Inc. and Deas Pacific Marine
Corporation as represented by the BC Ferry and Marine Workers Union.







F-G


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 143/2006, s. 22.]







H


Plan Type H applies to employees as follows:




(a)

to all eligible regular employees who are constituency assistants to
members of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia.




(b)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 91/2006, s. (b).]







I


Plan Type J applies to




(a)

all eligible regular judges and judicial justices of the peace
appointed under the
Provincial Court Act
, and




(b)

eligible regular masters of the Supreme Court of British Columbia if
applicability is specified in the appointing order.







J


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 31/2013, Sch. C, s. 1 (d).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Public Service Benefit Plan Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 386, s. 7.]



