




AMENDMENTS NOT IN FORCE


Health Professions Act



Psychologists Regulation

B.C. Reg. 289/2008


amended by B.C. Reg. 204/2022



effective May 1, 2024






Schedule 2




1 Section 1 of the Psychologists Regulation, B.C. Reg. 289/2008, is
amended by adding the following definition:




"school psychology"
means the health profession in which a person provides the following
services:


(a) the use of theories and principles of psychology for the purpose of
understanding and assessing an individual's developmental, behavioural,
cognitive, emotional, intellectual and interpersonal needs as those
needs relate to the individual's ability to learn and function in a
learning environment;


(b) the creation, protection and promotion of learning environments that
facilitate learning and intellectual functioning.



2 Section 3 is repealed and the following substituted:






Reserved titles




3

(1)


The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:




(a)

psychologist;




(b)

school psychologist.




(2)

Despite subsection (1), a person who is not a registrant may use the
title "psychologist", and a society whose members are not registrants
may incorporate the words "psychology", "psychological" or
"psychologist" in their title or designation, if




(a)

that person is, or the members of that society are, teaching,
lecturing or engaging in research as a psychologist, and




(b)

those activities are carried out by reason of, and in the course of,
duties under an academic appointment or program in a university as
defined in the
University Act
.




3 The following section is added:






Restricted activities




6

(1)


A registrant who is a psychologist may, in the course of practising
psychology, make a diagnosis identifying a mental condition or
disorder as the cause of the signs or symptoms of an individual.




(2)

A registrant who is a school psychologist may, in the course of
practising school psychology within a learning environment, make a
diagnosis identifying a mental condition or disorder as it relates to
learning and intellectual functioning as the cause of the signs or
symptoms of an individual within that environment.




(3)

Only a registrant may provide a service that includes the performance
of an activity set out in subsection (1) or (2).




