







B.C. Reg. 484/98

O.C. 1632/98


Deposited December 23, 1998






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act


Raspberry Industry Development Council Regulation

[Last amended March 1, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 55/2023]





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

;


"council"
means the BC Raspberry Industry Development Council established by the
Minister under section 2 of the Act;



"first receiver"

means a person who receives raspberries from, or on behalf of, a
raspberry grower for packing, grading, shipping, selling, distributing
or processing;


"levy"
means the levy referred to in section 2;


"raspberry"
means rubus strigosus and rubus ideaus;



"raspberry grower"

means a person who operates a farm in British Columbia that produces
raspberries for sale.






Payment of levy




2

(1)


Each raspberry grower must pay to the council the levy established by
the council under section 4 (1) of the Act.




(2)

The levy is payable as follows:




(a)

in the case of raspberries delivered to a first receiver, on the
delivery date;




(b)

in the case of raspberries produced on the farm of a first receiver
and processed by that receiver, on the date the raspberries are moved
into the processing facility;




(c)

in any other case, on the date the raspberries are sold.






Collection and remittance of levy on raspberries delivered to first
receiver




3

(1)


Each first receiver must collect the levy on behalf of the council by
deducting it from the proceeds otherwise due to the raspberry grower
for the raspberries delivered to the first receiver.




(2)

On or before September 30 of each year, each first receiver must remit
to the council the amount collected by the receiver under subsection
(1) during the previous 12 months, less any commission retained under
subsection (3).




(2.1)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 55/2023 s. (a).]




(3)

A first receiver may retain a commission of 5% of the levy collected
under subsection (1).

[am. B.C. Regs. 147/99; 55/2023.]





Remittance of levy on raspberries grown and processed by first
receiver and on direct sales




4


On or before September 30 of each year, each raspberry grower must
remit to the council the total amount that became payable by the
grower under section 2 (b) or (c) during the previous 12 months.






Records




5

(1)


Each person required under this regulation to remit the levy must
retain all records relating to the collection and remittance of the
levy for a period of 2 years after the deadline for remitting the
levy.




(2)

Records for the purposes of subsection (1) must include the name and
address of each raspberry grower who paid the levy.




(3)

A person required under subsection (1) to retain records must make the
records available to the council on its request.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Farming and Fishing Industries Development Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 134, ss. 4 and 10.]



