







B.C. Reg. 394/83

O.C. 1698/83


Deposited October 26, 1983






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Regulations Act


Regulations Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]



Part 1 — General





Interpretation




1


In this regulation
"Act"
means the

Regulations Act

.






Examination




2


A person designated under section 2 of the Act shall advise the
regulation making authority whether or not a proposed regulation




(a)

is authorized by the enactment under which it is to be made,




(b)

is an unusual or unexpected use of the authority under which the
regulation is to be made,




(c)

trespasses unduly on existing rights and freedoms,




(d)

is consistent with the

Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

, and




(e)

is drafted in accordance with standards established by the Chief
Legislative Counsel.






Regulation number




3

(1)


The registrar shall assign a number to each regulation that is
accepted for deposit under section 3 of the Act, and shall mark
on the regulation that number, the word "Deposited" and the day, month
and year of deposit.




(2)

A regulation that is deposited under subsection (1) or revised and
deposited under Part 2 may be cited as "B.C. Reg." or "B.C.
Regulation" followed by the number assigned to it, e.g. B.C. Reg.
444/97.




(3)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 234/97.]

[am. B.C. Regs. 45/85, s. 2; 234/97.]





Index




4


The registrar shall maintain an index of deposited regulations.






Regulation title




5


The registrar may add a descriptive title to a regulation in preparing
it for publication.






Fees




6


The fees payable under section 11 (2) (a) of the Act are





(a)

for each copy of a regulation not exceeding 10 pages

$1.00



(b)

for each page of a regulation exceeding 10 pages

0.10








Consolidated Regulations of British Columbia




7

(1)


Subject to subsection (2), the Consolidated Regulations of British
Columbia, being a set of consolidated regulations of general public
interest published in looseleaf format, is continued as an online
publication published in Portable Document Format (PDF) on a website
designated by the Chief Legislative Counsel.




(2)

A consolidated regulation that is published in looseleaf format
continues to be part of the Consolidated Regulations of British
Columbia until the regulation is published as a part of the online
publication under subsection (1).




(3)

In preparing a regulation for publication in the Consolidated
Regulations of British Columbia, the registrar may make changes in the
regulation respecting form, style, numbering and typographical or
reference errors or inaccuracies.




(4)

A reference in an enacting regulation to a previously enacted
regulation that at the time of the enactment of the enacting
regulation is published in the Consolidated Regulations of British
Columbia must, unless a contrary intention appears in the enacting
regulation, be construed to be a reference to the previously enacted
regulation as published in the Consolidated Regulations of British
Columbia.

[en. B.C. Reg. 189/2017.]



Part 2 — Revision of Regulations





Interpretation




8


In this Part:



"enacting authority"

means




(a)

the person who has the authority under an enactment to enact the
regulation to be revised, or a person designated by that person, or




(b)

in the case of a regulation that can be enacted by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council, the minister responsible for administration of
the enactment that is authority for enacting the regulation to be
revised, or a person designated by that minister,


but does not include a person who, under the enactment, is required to
give approval to the enactment of the regulation or is required to be
consulted with before its enactment;


"regulation"
includes part of a regulation;


"reviser"
means the Chief Legislative Counsel and includes a lawyer employed in
the office of legislative counsel.


[en. B.C. Reg. 45/85, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 8.]






Revision powers




9


The reviser may revise a regulation by




(a)

altering the form, style, punctuation, numbering and arrangement of
its provisions,




(b)

altering its language to the extent the reviser considers appropriate




(i)

to clarify what is considered to have been the intention of the
enacting authority, and




(ii)

to maintain consistency with the drafting policies of the Chief
Legislative Counsel,




(c)

correcting typographical or reference errors or inaccuracies,




(d)

omitting spent provisions, and




(e)

omitting provisions that can be implemented through administrative
direction or that are unnecessary to achieve its intent.

[en. B.C. Reg. 45/85, s. 4.]





Approval of enacting authority




10


After completing a revised regulation the reviser shall submit it to
the enacting authority for examination.

[en. B.C. Reg. 45/84, s. 4.]





Submission to registrar




11


If the enacting authority approves the revised regulation the enacting
authority shall endorse it as approved and deposit it with the
registrar, and the Act, except sections 2 and 3 (2), applies to the
revised regulation the same as if the regulation had been originally
enacted.


[en. B.C. Reg. 45/85, s. 4; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]






Commencement and repeal




12

(1)


A revised regulation comes into force on the date of its deposit or on
a later date specified in the revised regulation.




(2)

On the coming into force of a revised regulation the original
regulation it replaces, as specified in the revised regulation, is
repealed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 45/85, s. 4.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Regulations Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 402, s. 11.]



