







B.C. Reg. 85/62

O.C. 1452/62






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




Trespass Act


Trespass Regulation

[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 373/79]





Lawful fence: protecting railway property, hay or grain




1


A lawful fence for the purpose of dividing the right of way, grounds
or property of a railway company to which the

Railway Act

applies from any other land, whether belonging to the railway company
or not, or for the purpose of protecting any stack of hay or grain,
means a fence substantially constructed from the ground to a height of
at least 4 feet 6 inches, and consisting




(a)

of earth, stone, brick, concrete or iron,




(b)

of logs, rails, boards or bars of wood or iron, laid horizontally one
above the other not more than 6 inches apart up to a height of 3 feet
from the ground, and not more than 12 inches apart above that
height, the bottom of the lowest log, rail, board or bar being at any
point not more than 6 inches from the ground,




(c)

of upright posts, boards, palings or pickets not more than 4 inches
apart,




(d)

of barbed wire not less than No. 12 1/2 gauge secured to posts not
more than 20 feet apart, the lowest wire being at any point not more
than 6 inches from the ground, the wires being not more than
6 inches apart up to a height of 3 feet from the ground, and
not more than 12 inches apart above that height, being interlaced
with cross wiring or fastened to wooden droppers or poles placed at
regular intervals of not more than 4 feet,




(e)

of woven standard gauge wire fencing secured to posts not more than 24
feet apart, with the lowest wire not more than 6 inches above the
ground, the top and bottom wires to be not less than
No. 9 3/4 gauge and the intervening wires no less than
No. 12 1/2 gauge, or




(f)

of a combination of the materials specified in any 2 or more of
paragraphs (a) to (e); but where any combination includes wire or
barbed wire, the provisions of paragraph (d) as to cross wiring,
droppers or poles shall be observed.






Distance from hay or grain stack




2


For the purpose of protecting any stack of hay or grain by any fence
specified in section 1, a lawful fence is one not less than
10 feet from the nearest point of the stack.






Lawful fence: other situations




3


In all cases other than those provided for in section 1, a lawful
fence for all unorganized portions of the Province means a fence
substantially constructed from the ground to a height of at least
4 feet 6 inches, and consisting




(a)

of earth, stone, brick, concrete or iron,




(b)

of logs, rails, boards or bars of wood or iron laid horizontally one
above the other not more than 9 inches apart up to a height of
32 inches from the ground, and not more than 11 inches apart
above that height, the bottom of the lowest log, rail, board or bar
being at any point not more than 14 inches from the ground,




(c)

of upright posts, boards, palings or pickets not more than 4 inches
apart,




(d)

of woven standard gauge wire fencing secured to posts not more than 20
feet apart, with the lowest wire not more than 14 inches above
the ground, the top and bottom wires to be not less than
No. 9 3/4 gauge and the intervening wires not less than
No. 12 1/2 gauge,




(e)

of barbed wire not less than No. 12 1/2 gauge secured to posts not
more than 24 feet apart, the lowest wire being not more than
14 inches from the ground, the wires being not more than
9 inches apart up to a height of 32 inches from the ground, and
not more than 11 inches apart above that height, and being
interlaced with cross wiring or fastened to wooden droppers or poles
placed at regular intervals of not more than 6 feet,




(f)

of barbed wire not less than No. 12 1/2 gauge secured to posts not
more than 16 1/2 feet apart, the lowest wire being not more than
14 inches above the ground, the wires being not more than
9 inches apart up to a height of 32 inches from the ground,
and not more than 11 inches apart above that height, except that




(i)

in the North and South Peace River Electoral Districts a legal fence
of barbed wire shall consist of not less than 3 strands of barbed wire
not less than No. 12 1/2 gauge secured to posts not more
than 16 1/2 feet apart, the lowest wire being not more than
18 inches from the ground, the wires being not more than
16 inches apart up to a height of 34 inches from the ground,
and not more than 14 inches apart above that height, and being
fastened to wooden droppers or poles placed midway between posts, and




(ii)

in that portion of the Province bounded on the south by 53\xa1
latitude, on the north by 56\xa1 latitude, on the east by the summit
of the Rocky Mountains, and on the west by the Pacific Ocean, a legal
fence of barbed wire shall consist of 4 strands of barbed wire not
less than No. 12 1/2 gauge secured to posts not more than
16 1/2 feet apart, the lowest wire being not more than 16
inches from the ground, the wires being not more than 12 inches
apart up to a height of 52 inches from the ground, or




(g)

of a combination of the materials specified in any 2 or more of
paragraphs (a) to (f).

[en. B.C. Reg. 70/65; am. B.C. Reg. 373/79.]





Deemed lawful fences




4


Any hedge of the height of at least 4 feet 6 inches, and any river
bank or other natural boundary, if sufficient to keep cattle out of
any land, and any unfordable lake, pond, river or sea, shall be deemed
to be a lawful fence, including any suitably constructed gates and
cattle-guards.






Repealed




5-6


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 70/65.]



[Provisions of the

Trespass Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 462, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
sections 2 and 15]



