
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act
[RSBC 1960] CHAPTER 261




Further objects




7A

(1)

The objects of the Corporation shall also be the disposal of all
types of waste in substantial accordance with a report of the
board of engineers composed of M. J. J. Dayton, R. M. Martin,
and F. R. Bunnell, dated the thirteenth day of June, 1973, a
copy of which has been filed in the office of the Provincial
Secretary, and which, for the purpose of identification, has
been signed by F. R. Bunnell, Commissioner of the Greater
Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District, and the purchase,
construction, operation, maintenance, and administration of
facilities for the disposal of all types of waste.




(2)

The Corporation shall have the right to perform work requisite
to its function but not included in the report referred to in
subsection (1), and to amend or vary any of the projects
recommended in the report in a manner which is not inconsistent
with the objects of the report, but only with the sanction of a
by-law of the Board passed by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of its members.




(3)

The Corporation may, by by-law passed by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of its members, regulate the planning,
construction, maintenance, operation, and administration of all
waste-disposal facilities within the area of the Greater
Vancouver Regional District.




(4)

The Corporation may authorize a member municipality to provide
facilities which are consistent with the intent of this Act at
any time at the cost of the municipality concerned.




(5)

In addition to its other powers, the Corporation shall have the
following powers:





(a)

To finance, design, construct, maintain, operate, and administer
waste-disposal facilities for the Crown in right of the Province
within or without the area of the Corporation at the sole and
exclusive cost of the Crown:





(b)

To establish the uses to which its waste-disposal facilities may
be put and by whom they may be used:





(c)

In addition to the general borrowing powers provided for in
section 36, by by-law of the Board, with the recommendation of
the Commissioner and the approval of the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council, to borrow moneys and pay interest thereon for the
purpose of carrying out the powers vested in the Corporation by
this subsection:





(d)

To purchase or otherwise acquire waste-disposal facilities of
member municipalities and others:





(e)

To enter into agreements with member municipalities to provide
for the collection and removal of waste by the Corporation for
and on behalf of, and at the sole cost and expense of, those
member municipalities:





(f)

To enter into agreements with a municipality and any other
person relating to the removal and disposal of waste, within or
without the area of the Corporation:





(g)

To establish scales of charges for services rendered by the
Corporation and for the use of any of the waste-disposal
facilities of the Corporation.




(6)

The Corporation shall have all the rights, powers, and
obligations necessary to carry out the function of waste
disposal, and for the purchase, construction, operation,
maintenance, and administration of facilities for the disposal
of all types of waste as the Corporation has for the
carrying-out of the construction, maintenance, operation, and
administration of major sewerage and drainage facilities, and
the provisions of this Act relating to the carrying-out of the
construction, maintenance, operation, and administration of
major sewerage and drainage facilities apply, with the necessary
changes and so far as they are applicable, to the function of
waste disposal and for the purchase, construction, operation,
maintenance, and administration of facilities for the disposal
of all types of waste. ;


