







B.C. Reg. 490/79

O.C. 2388/78


Filed October 26, 1979







This consolidation is current to February 20, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after February 20, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act


British Columbia Housing Management Commission Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]




Whereas British Columbia Housing Management Commission was constituted
a body corporate and politic, pursuant to section 11 of the
Housing Act
, by order in council 3746/67, approved December 8, 1967, and
published as B.C. Reg. 76/68;


And whereas it is expedient that the commission be continued under the
Housing Act
with redefined powers and duties;


Consent is given to the minister responsible for sections 5 (c), 8.1
and 10 of the

Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act

to authorize the British Columbia Housing Management Commission
(hereinafter called the "commission") to exercise, in addition to the
powers conferred upon it by and under the
Housing Act
and this order, the powers of a "public housing agency" under the
provisions of and for the purposes specified in Part VI of the
National Housing Act
, 1954 of Canada, as amended, and such further and other powers as the
minister responsible for sections 5 (c), 8.1 and 10 of the

Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act

considers necessary.


Order in council 3746/67, approved December 8, 1967, and published as
B.C. Reg. 76/68, as amended by orders in council 1997/70, 1982/74,
1950/75 and 1021/76 (B.C. Regs. 387/74 and 440/75), is rescinded, save
in so far as it constitutes the commission a body corporate and
politic, and the commission shall continue to be incorporated,
pursuant to section 11 of the
Housing Act
, under that name and style as a body politic and corporate with
continued succession and a common seal, and with the powers and duties
and subject to the provisions hereinafter contained:

[am. B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 1.]





Definitions




1


For the purpose of this order, unless the context otherwise requires:



"Board of Commissioners"

or

"commissioners"

mean the incumbent members of the commission appointed by the
Lieutenant Governor in Council pursuant to section 2 of this order;


"minister"
means the minister responsible for sections 5 (c), 8.1 and 10 of the

Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act

;


"housing"
includes any structures, buildings, lands, improvements and space
suitable or capable of being made suitable for human habitation or
accommodation, and also includes public housing referred to in section
11 of the
Housing Act
.

[am. B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 2.]





Members of commission




2

(1)


The members of the commission shall be such number of persons as are
appointed for that purpose by the Lieutenant Governor in Council upon
the recommendation of the minister.




(2)

The members of the commission appointed under subsection (1) shall be
appointed during pleasure.




(3)

The Lieutenant Governor in Council may appoint a member of the
commission as chair.




(4) to (6)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 478/83.]

[am. B.C. Regs. 478/83; 156/2008, s. 3.]





Powers of commission




3


For the purposes of the
Housing Act
, any enactment and any Act of Canada, the commission may, in its own
name,




(a)

manage housing and developments that include housing made available to
it under agreements with the minister or under agreements between the
Government of Canada and the Government of British Columbia or their
agents,




(b)

acquire, construct, repair, manage, renovate and maintain housing and
developments that include housing,




(b.1)

acquire, develop, manage and dispose of land and improvements that
include housing or are intended to be used for housing,




(c)

acquire supplies and equipment and maintain and repair the supplies
and equipment necessary to the management of housing and developments
that include housing administered by it,




(d)

purchase or otherwise acquire, lease, sublease and dispose of real
property and premises as may be necessary for its administration and
operations,




(e)

enter into collective bargaining and conclude collective agreements
with its employees,




(f)

administer rent supplement and other housing assistance programs under
the direction and with the approval of the minister,




(f.1)

borrow money from Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province
represented by the Minister of Finance on the terms agreed to by the
commission and that minister,




(f.2)

make loans and grants of money to societies, first nations or entities
controlled by first nations, public housing corporations or housing
co-operatives incorporated under the laws of British Columbia or of
Canada for the purpose of facilitating projects to build or to repair
housing and developments that include housing intended for sale or
rent to low, moderate and middle income households,




(f.3)

make a loan of money to a person, other than a person referred to in
paragraph (f.2), for the purpose of facilitating a project, or a
portion of a project, that is dedicated exclusively to building or
repairing housing or developments that include housing intended for
sale or rent to low, moderate or middle income households on the
conditions that




(i)

it is a term of the loan that the money be used only for that project
or portion, and




(ii)

a mortgage securing the amount of the loan




(A)

is registered in the land title office as a charge against the title
to the land on which the housing or developments that include housing
are or will be located, and




(B)

has a priority equal to or greater than the registered interest of any
other lender to the project,




(f.4)

provide social or other services to a person for the purposes set out
in section 10 (3) (b) (i) of the Act, including, without limitation,
the following services:




(i)

assisting persons to access social programs, including income
assistance, disability benefits, housing resources, health services
and counselling and addiction services;




(ii)

assisting persons with financial, medication and household management;




(iii)

personal services, including laundry, storage and food services;




(iv)

providing and assisting persons to access education and
employment-related training,




(f.5)

make a loan or grant of money to an individual for the purpose of
assisting the individual to purchase, for the first time, a principal
residence, the loan or grant being made on terms and conditions
established by the commission, which must include the following
conditions:




(i)

it is a term of the loan or grant that the money may be used only for
the purchase of that residence or costs related to the purchase as
identified by the commission;




(ii)

for a loan of more than $10 000, a mortgage securing the amount of the
loan




(A)

is registered in the land title office as a charge against the fee
simple or leasehold interest of the individual in the land on which
the residence is or will be located, and




(B)

is no less than second in priority to any other financial charge
against the interest of the individual in the land,




(f.6)

make a loan or grant of money to a person for the purpose of modifying
or adapting a residence to improve accessibility or to assist an
occupant of the residence to live independently,




(g)

do such other things not inconsistent with this order as it considers
necessary or advisable for carrying out its purpose and powers, and




(h)

without restricting the generality of the foregoing, carry on all
activities under this section hitherto carried on by the commission
prior to the coming into force of this order.


[am. B.C. Regs. 331/89; 426/95; 368/2000; 156/2008, s. 4; 160/2008;
323/2016, Sch.]






Powers and duties of Board




4

(1)


The Board of Commissioners shall manage the affairs of the commission
or supervise the management of those affairs and may




(a)

exercise the powers conferred upon it by and under this order,




(b)

exercise the powers of the commission on behalf of the commission, and




(c)

delegate the exercise or performance of any power or duty conferred or
imposed upon it to any person employed by the commission.




(2)

The Board of Commissioners may pass such resolutions as it considers
necessary or advisable for the management and conduct of the affairs
of the commission and the exercise of it powers or duties including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, resolutions
respecting the calling and holding of meetings of the Board of
Commissioners and the procedure to be followed at the meetings.




(3)

A majority of the Board of Commissioners for the time being holding
office constitutes a quorum at meetings of the Board of Commissioners,
and the affirmative votes of the majority of the Board of
Commissioners present at a meeting at which a quorum is present are
sufficient to pass any bylaw or resolution.




(4)

A resolution in writing, signed by all the commissioners, is as valid
and effective as if it had been passed at a meeting of the Board of
Commissioners duly called and constituted.




(5)

The chair shall be the convener of and preside at all meetings of the
Board of Commissioners and shall have such further powers and duties
as may be provided by bylaw or resolution.




(6)

The chair may appoint, from among the Board of Commissioners, a
vice-chair who, in the absence of the chair, shall have the chair's
rights, powers and duties.

[am. B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 5.]





Chief executive officer, officers and employees




5

(1)


The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a chief executive officer to
hold office during pleasure.




(2)

The Board of Commissioners shall define the duties of the chief
executive officer.




(3)

The Board of Commissioners, or, if authorized by the Board of
Commissioners, the chief executive officer, may appoint such officers,
employees and agents as it or the chief executive officer considers
necessary to carry on the business and operations of the commission,
and may fix their term of office or employment, terminate appointments
or remove or suspend them, reappoint or reinstate them, fix their
remuneration and vary or terminate it, appoint others in their place
and stead or to act in their place and stead, appoint others as their
deputies, define their duties and provide a system of organization to
fix responsibility and promote efficiency.




(4)

The

Public Service Act

does not apply to the officers and employees of the corporation.

[am. B.C. Regs. 156/2008, s. 6; 76/2022, s. 6.]





Home office




6


The home office of the commission shall be located in the Province of
British Columbia.

[am. B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 7.]





Financial records




7

(1)


The commission shall establish and maintain an accounting system
satisfactory to the minister, and shall, whenever required by the
minister, render detailed accounts of its revenues and expenditures
for such period or to such day as the minister may designate.




(2)

All books or records of accounts, documents and other financial
records shall at all times be open for inspection by the minister or
such other person as the minister may designate.




(3)

The fiscal year end of the commission shall be March 31 in each year
unless altered by resolution of the Board of Commissioners and
approved by the minister.




(4)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 8 (b).]




(5)

Not later than 120 days from the last day of the fiscal year end of
the commission, the chair shall present to the minister a financial
statement for such fiscal year, duly audited by an independent
auditor, together with a report of the operation of the commission for
such fiscal year.




(6)

The commission shall maintain such records on program activities as
deemed necessary by the minister or a person designated by the
minister, and shall present such records to the minister or the
minister's designee as requested.


[am. B.C. Regs. 156/2008, s. 8; 76/2022, ss. 6 to 8.]






Investment powers




8


The commission may invest or loan the funds not otherwise required for
the purposes of the commission or any portion thereof in those
investments or loans in which trustees may by law invest trust funds
and in such other securities as are authorized by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council.






Additional borrowing powers




9

(1)


In addition to any borrowing power under section 3 (f.1) or any other
enactment of the Province or of Canada, but subject to the approval of
the minister, the commission may, to a maximum aggregate at any time
of a net sum of $10 000 000, after payment of discount, commission
brokerage and all other expenses on all loans, borrow such sums of
money as it may consider necessary or advisable for the purpose of
carrying out any of its purposes or for the exercise of any power,
right, function or duty conferred or imposed on it under this or any
other enactment or Act of Canada, and may issue notes bearing interest
at such rates and payable as to principal and interest in such
currencies and at such places and at such times and in such manner as
the commission may determine.




(2)

The commission may borrow funds under this section only from a bank,
trust company or credit union incorporated under the laws of Canada or
a province or territory thereof.


[am. B.C. Regs. 331/82; 206/92, s. 1; 156/2008, s. 9.]






Repealed




9.1


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 10.]






Bond may be required




10


The commission may require a bond under the

Bonding Act

from such of its officers and employees as it may designate.






Application of
Business Corporations Act




11


Sections 31, 142 (3), 143 to 145, 147 to 153 and 193 of the

Business Corporations Act

are incorporated by reference into this order as if set out in full
and shall apply mutatis mutandis to the commission and the Board of
Commissioners, except in so far as any of them are varied by or
inconsistent with or repugnant to the provisions of this order, in
which case the provisions of this order shall prevail to the extent of
such variation, inconsistency or repugnancy.

[am. B.C. Reg. 156/2008, s. 11.]





Liability of Board limited




12


No commissioner and no person acting under the authority of the Board
of Commissioners is personally liable for loss or damage suffered by a
person by reason of anything in good faith done or omitted to be done
in the exercise of a power given hereunder, or under any enactment or
Act of Canada.






Commission's assets and liabilities continued




13


All the property, real and personal, and whether in possession or in
action, including the benefit under any contract, lease or agreement
whatsoever, of the commission prior to the coming into force of this
order shall continue to be the property of the commission continued by
this order, and all the debts, liabilities, obligations and covenants
of the commission made prior to the coming into force of this order
shall be assumed, paid, discharged or performed by the commission
continued by this order.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 307, s. 10 (3) and 11 (1).]



