






B.C. Reg. 254/2010


M 230/2010



Deposited August 20, 2010







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to Point in Time





Utilities Commission Act




CPC/CBT Projects

Exemption Continuation Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 255/2010, August 24, 2010]









Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Utilities Commission              Act


;



"affiliate"

has the same meaning as in the


Business              Corporations Act


;



"Arrow Lakes Generating Station"

means the electricity
generation, transmission, transformation and interconnection facilities near the
authority's Hugh Keenleyside Dam, including related works and property, but excludes the
authority's storage dam and related works and property;



"Brilliant Project"

means the electricity generation,
transmission, transformation and interconnection facilities at the Brilliant Dam,
including related works and property;



"Brilliant Expansion Project"

means the electricity generation,
transmission, transformation and interconnection facilities near the Brilliant Project,
including related works and property;



"CBT"

means Columbia Basin Trust or its successors or
assigns;



"Cominco"

means Cominco Ltd. or its successors or
assigns;



"CPC"

means Columbia Power Corporation or its successors or
assigns;



"CPC/CBT"

means a joint venture, corporation, partnership or
other business entity in which CPC, a CPC subsidiary, CBT, or a CBT subsidiary, owns an
equity interest;



"CPC/CBT power service"

means power service from a CPC/CBT
Project or a CPC/CBT contractual entitlement to power service, whether related to a
CPC/CBT Project or other CPC/CBT purchases for resale, including the Waneta Upgrade power
service;



"CPC/CBT Projects"

means the Arrow Lakes Generating Station, the
Brilliant Project, the Brilliant Expansion Project and the Waneta Expansion Project,
including any upgrades, extensions or modifications that may be made from time to
time;



"energy supply contract"

means energy supply contract within the
meaning of section
68 of the Act;



"power service"

means electrical energy or capacity;



"Waneta Expansion Project"

means the electricity generation,
transmission, transformation and interconnection facilities to be constructed near the
Waneta Dam, including related works and property;



"Waneta Upgrade power service"

means the additional energy and
capacity from the upgrades to 4 turbines at Cominco's Waneta Dam, for which Cominco has
received approval under the


Environmental Assessment          Act


.


[am. B.C. Reg. 255/2010, s. (a).]








Exemptions





2



The following exemptions are made:






(a)


CPC/CBT is exempt from Part 3 and section 71 of the Act in respect of the sale,
purchase or production of CPC/CBT power service;






(b)


CPC/CBT is exempt from Part 3 and section 71 of the Act in respect of the
CPC/CBT Projects;






(c)


persons, other than CPC/CBT and any other person, or an affiliate of any other
person, having a financial interest in the Waneta Expansion Project, are exempt from
section 71
of the Act in respect of energy supply contracts for the purchase of CPC/CBT power
service;






(d)


Cominco is exempt from section 71 of the Act in respect of energy supply
contracts with CPC/CBT for the production and sale of Waneta Upgrade power
service.


[am. B.C. Reg. 255/2010, s. (b).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Utilities          Commission Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 473, sections 22 and 125.1 (4)
(b)]



