






B.C. Reg. 284/2007


O.C. 599/2007



Deposited September 7, 2007







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to Point in Time





Forest Act




Cutting Permit Postponement Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 112/2016, May 13, 2016]







Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Forest            Act


;



"deferred timber"

means timber under a cutting permit that is subject to
an application for postponement under section 58.21 (1) of the Act.








Forest management reasons for postponing operation of cutting
permit





2



For the purposes of section 58.21

[postponement of operation of cutting
permits]

of the Act, the minister may postpone the operation of a cutting
permit






(a)


if, in the minister's opinion,






(i)


it is necessary or desirable for a holder of a cutting permit to harvest other
timber in priority to deferred timber because the other timber is in danger, as a result
of forest health factors, of being significantly reduced in value, lost or destroyed,
and






(ii)


the postponement will not result in the deferred timber being significantly
reduced in value, lost or destroyed, or






(b)


if, in the minister's opinion, the continuance or completion of timber harvesting
operations under the cutting permit is likely to result in






(i)


an adverse effect on reforestation, or






(ii)


an unacceptable risk of a fire hazard,


in an area of land covered by the cutting permit.


[en. B.C. Reg. 234/2008.]








Access reasons for postponing operation of cutting permit





3



For the purposes of section 58.21 of the Act, the minister may postpone the operation of a cutting permit if, in the minister's opinion,






(a)


it is not, or was not, practicable for the holder of the permit to access the deferred timber because of circumstances






(i)


beyond the control of the holder of the permit,






(ii)


unrelated to the financial situation of the holder of the permit, and






(iii)


unrelated to market conditions affecting revenue or costs associated with harvesting, removing, transporting or disposing of the deferred timber, and






(b)


because of the circumstances referred to in paragraph (a), it is no longer practicable for the holder of the permit to harvest the deferred timber before the expiration date of that permit.


[en. B.C. Reg. 112/2016.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Forest      Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, section 151]



