






B.C. Reg. 277/2008


M237/2008



Deposited October 15, 2008


effective October 17, 2008







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time





Health Professions Act




Denturists Regulation



[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 172/2022]









Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Health Professions Act


;



"complete denture"

means a dental prosthesis, supported by soft tissue, that replaces the natural teeth and associated structures in an edentulous arch and is not attached to or supported by natural teeth or implants and which is removable by the patient;



"dentist"

means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the designated health profession of dentistry;



"denture"

means a partial denture, complete denture or overdenture;



"denturism"

means the health profession in which a person provides the following services for the purpose of ensuring the therapeutic and cosmetic suitability of a denture for its intended use:






(a)


assessing the need for dentures;






(b)


dispensing and fitting dentures;



"denturist"

means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the designated health profession of denturism;



"dispense"

means to make, alter or provide;



"edentulous arch"

means a dental arch with no remaining natural teeth or roots;



"fit"

means to perform any non-surgical intra-oral procedure related to dispensing a denture, including the making of impressions;



"implants"

means a device that has been inserted into, over, through or under the jawbone for the purpose of supporting a dental prosthesis;



"overdenture"

means a dental prosthesis that replaces natural teeth, is removable by the patient and is






(a)


attached to or supported by implants, or






(b)


attached to, supported by or covers retained roots or natural teeth;



"partial denture"

means a dental prosthesis that






(a)


is removable by the patient,






(b)


restores one or more natural teeth or associated structures, and






(c)


is supported in part by natural teeth, crowns or mucosa;



"prescription"

means an authorization, issued by a person who is authorized under the Act to prescribe a partial denture or overdenture, to dispense a partial denture or overdenture for use by a named individual.



[am. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 4, s. 1.]









College name





2



The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of the Act in respect of denturism is "British Columbia College of Oral Health Professionals".


[en. B.C. Reg. 172/2022, Sch. 4.]








Reserved title





3



The title "denturist" is reserved for exclusive use by registrants.








Scope of practice





4



A denturist may






(a)


practise denturism, and






(b)


perform the restricted activity described in section 5 (1) (d), if dislocation occurs in the course of practising denturism.


[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 4, s. 2.]








Restricted activities





5



(1)


A registrant in the course of practising denturism may do all of the following:






(a)


dispense or fit a complete denture;






(b)


subject to paragraph (c), dispense or fit a partial denture or overdenture, but only for the purpose of implementing a prescription;






(c)


make minor alterations to a partial denture or overdenture, without a prescription, for the purpose of repairing or relining the partial denture or overdenture, but only if






(i)


the alterations do not change the design of the original prescription, or






(ii)


the registrant has the prior consent of the person who issued the original prescription to change the design of the original prescription;






(d)


reduce a complete dislocation of a temporomandibular joint using manual therapy.






(2)


Only a registrant who is a denturist may provide a service that includes the performance of an activity set out in subsection (1).


[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 4, s. 2.]








Limits or conditions on services





6



(1)


A registrant must not do any of the following:






(a)


expose radiographs;






(b)


cut, grind, scale, clean, restore, alter or polish natural teeth, crowns or implants, except to perform a service of teeth whitening;






(c)


unless authorized by a dentist, provide a denture to a patient or adjust a denture in an arch in circumstances where, after the removal or loss of teeth, wound closure is incomplete, sutures are still present or bone is exposed.






(2)


If a registrant is providing services that are authorized by a prescription, the registrant must provide the services in accordance with the prescription unless






(a)


the registrant has the prior consent of the person who issued that prescription,






(b)


both the registrant and the person who issued that prescription note the altered prescription on the patient's record, and






(c)


the altered prescription is communicated to a dental technician involved in making the denture, if any.


[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 4, s. 2.]








Patient relations program





7



The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.








Health profession corporations





8



Part 4 of the Act applies to denturism.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Health Professions Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]



