







B.C. Reg. 276/2008

M236/2008


Deposited October 15, 2008

effective October 17, 2008





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Health Professions Act


Dental Hygienists Regulation


[Last amended September 1, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 172/2022]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Health Professions Act

;



"dental hygiene"

means the health profession in which a person provides the services of




(a)

assessing the status of teeth and adjacent tissues, and




(b)

providing preventive and therapeutic treatment for teeth and adjacent
tissues;



"dental hygiene diagnosis"

means a clinical judgment made by a registrant of an individual's oral
health condition to determine whether




(a)

the condition can be ameliorated or resolved by services that the
registrant is authorized to provide, or




(b)

consultation with, or transfer of responsibility for care to, another
health professional is necessary or appropriate;


"dentist"
means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the
designated health profession of dentistry;



"prescription"

has the same meaning as in the

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

;


"substance"
includes air and water but excludes a drug specified in Schedule I,
IA, II or IV of the Drug Schedules Regulation.

[am. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 1, s. 1.]





College name




2


The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of
the Act in respect of dental hygiene is "British Columbia College of
Oral Health Professionals".

[en. B.C. Reg. 172/2022, Sch. 1.]





Reserved title




3


The title "dental hygienist" is reserved for exclusive use by
registrants.






Scope of practice




4


A dental hygienist may practise dental hygiene.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Restricted activities




5

(1)


A registrant in the course of practising dental hygiene may do all of
the following:




(a)

make a dental hygiene diagnosis identifying gingivitis or
periodontitis as the cause of the signs or symptoms of an individual;




(b)

perform scaling, dental debridement or root planing on the surfaces of
the teeth for the purpose of preventing or treating an oral health
condition;




(c)

administer a substance by irrigation for the purpose of preventing or
treating an oral health condition;




(d)

reduce a complete dislocation of a temporomandibular joint using
manual therapy.




(2)

If standards, limits or conditions have been established under
section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the Act respecting
the activity, a registrant in the course of practising dental hygiene
may, during assessment and for diagnostic or imaging purposes, apply




(a)

intra-oral X-rays, or




(b)

extra-oral X-rays for the purpose of implementing an authorization,
issued by a person who is authorized under the Act to apply extra-oral
X-rays, to do so in respect of a named individual.




(3)

Subject to subsection (4), a registrant in the course of practising
dental hygiene may administer a drug specified in Schedule I or II of
the Drug Schedules Regulation for the purpose of




(a)

treating an oral health condition, if administration is by topical
application or irrigation, or




(b)

providing oral local anaesthesia,




(i)

if administration is by injection or topical application, and




(ii)

if, before providing the service, the registrant has successfully
completed a certification program established, required or approved
under the bylaws to ensure that registrants are qualified and
competent to provide that service.




(4)

A registrant in the course of practising dental hygiene may not
administer a drug for which a prescription is required under the

Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act

unless the patient has a prescription for the drug.




(5)

Only a registrant who is a dental hygienist may provide a service that
includes the performance of an activity set out in this section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Limits or conditions on services




6

(1)


In this section,

"private dental hygiene practice"

means the practice of dental hygiene in circumstances where,
ordinarily, a dentist is not on site or immediately available.




(2)

A registrant who is a dental hygienist may not engage in private
dental hygiene practice unless standards, limits or conditions
respecting private dental hygiene practice have first been established
under section 19 (1) (k) or (l) of the Act.




(3)

A registrant who engages in private dental hygiene practice must, in
the course of providing dental hygiene services to a patient,
recommend that the patient be examined by a dentist unless the dental
hygienist




(a)

has reason to believe that the patient has recently been examined by a
dentist, or




(b)

has recently recommended to the patient that the patient be examined
by a dentist.




(4)

A registrant must not perform permanent restoration procedures.




(5)

A registrant may perform the restricted activity described in
section 5 (1) (d) only if dislocation occurs in the
course of practising dental hygiene.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2020, Sch. 1, s. 2.]





Patient relations program




7


The college is designated for the purposes of
section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.






Health profession corporations




8


Part 4 of the Act applies to dental hygiene.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Health Professions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]



