







B.C. Reg. 114/2018

M231/2018


Deposited June 14, 2018






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)




South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act


Development Cost Charge Regulation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

;


"developer"
means a person on whom a development cost charge is imposed;



"development cost charge amendment bylaw"

means a bylaw that changes the amount of a development cost charge
specified in a development cost charge bylaw.






Exemption — approval of development cost charge bylaws




2

(1)


Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a development cost charge
amendment bylaw is exempt from the approval requirement in section
34.22 of the Act if




(a)

the bylaw changes the amount of one or more development cost charges
once in a 12 month period after the date of the adoption of the bylaw,
and




(b)

the change in the amount of the development cost charge does not
exceed the percentage change in the annual average Consumer Price
Index for Vancouver, as published by Statistics Canada under the
authority of the

Statistics Act

(Canada), for the calendar year before the date of the bylaw change
referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.




(2)

The authority may make use of an exemption under subsection (1) once
each year for up to 4 years from




(a)

the date of the adoption of a development cost charge bylaw approved
by the inspector, or




(b)

the date of the adoption of a bylaw approved by the inspector that
amends a development cost charge bylaw.




(3)

A copy of a development cost charge amendment bylaw under subsection
(1) must be filed as soon as is reasonable with the inspector after
the bylaw has been adopted.






Payment may be in instalments




3


A developer liable to pay a development cost charge may elect to pay
it in instalments, subject to the conditions set out in sections 4 to
8.






Exception




4


Section 3 does not apply if the development cost charge is under $50
000 unless the authority has, in the development cost charge bylaw,
authorized that all development cost charges under $50 000 imposed may
be paid in instalments in accordance with this regulation.






Payment of charge in full




5


A developer must pay the development cost charge in full within 2
years after the date that the developer obtains a building permit or
approval of a subdivision by paying not less than




(a)

1/3 of the total development cost charge at the time of obtaining the
building permit or approval of the subdivision, and




(b)

1/2 of the balance within one year after the date of obtaining the
building permit or approval of the subdivision.






Failure to pay instalment




6


If a developer elects to pay a development cost charge in instalments
and fails to pay an instalment within any time required for payment by
section 5, the total balance of the development cost charge becomes
due and payable immediately.






Interest




7


If a developer elects to pay a development cost charge in instalments,
no interest is payable on the unpaid balance of that development cost
charge until the unpaid balance becomes due and payable, but when it
does, interest is payable from that date until payment at the rate or
rates prescribed under section 11 (3) of the

Taxation (Rural Area) Act

for the period of non-payment.






Surety for payment in instalments




8


A developer who elects to pay a development cost charge in instalments
must deposit with the authority, at the same time as the developer
pays the first instalment,




(a)

an irrevocable letter of credit or undertaking from a bank, or a
credit union or trust company that has a business authorization issued
under the

Financial Institutions Act

,




(b)

a bond of an insurer that has a business authorization issued under
the

Financial Institutions Act

, or




(c)

a security duly assigned


that ensures to the satisfaction of the authority that upon default
the balance of the unpaid development cost charge will be recoverable
from the person, the bank, the credit union, the trust company or the
insurer or from the proceeds of the realization of the security, as
the case may be.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

, S.B.C. 1998, c. 30, ss. 34.21 and 34.22]



