






B.C. Reg. 279/2008


M239/2008



Deposited October 15, 2008


effective October 17, 2008







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.




Health Professions Act




Dietitians Regulation










Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Health Professions Act


;



"compound"

means to mix ingredients for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"dietetics"

means the assessment of nutritional needs, design, implementation and evaluation of nutritional care plans and therapeutic diets, the science of food and human nutrition, and dissemination of information about food and human nutrition to attain, maintain and promote the health of individuals, groups and the community;



"design"

means the selection of appropriate ingredients for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"dispense"

means to fill a prescription for parenteral or enteral nutrition;



"enteral"

means administration of a nutritional substance to a patient by means of a feeding tube into the gastrointestinal tract;



"parenteral"

means administration of a nutritional substance to a patient directly into the blood stream.








College name





2



The name "College of Dietitians of British Columbia" is the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Act for dietetics.








Reserved title





3



The title "dietitian" is reserved for exclusive use by registrants.








Scope of practice





4



A registrant may practise dietetics.








Restricted activities





5



No person other than a registrant who meets the additional qualifications set out in the bylaws of the college may






(a)


design, compound or dispense therapeutic diets if nutrition is administered through enteral means,






(b)


design therapeutic diets if nutrition is administered through parenteral means, or






(c)


administer a substance to a person by instillation through enteral or parenteral means.








Limits or conditions on services





6



(1)


No registrant may insert a feeding tube.






(2)


Subsection (1) does not apply to a registrant who






(a)


is acting under delegated authority of a medical practitioner, and






(b)


is acting in accordance with standards developed for the purposes of paragraph (a) and approved by the board and approved by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia.








Patient relations program





7



The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.



[Provisions of the


Health Professions Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 12 (2)]



