






B.C. Reg. 235/2023


O.C. 617/2023



Deposited November 15, 2023







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)





Emergency and Disaster Management Act




Emergency and Disaster Management Regulation








Definition





1



In this regulation,

"Act"

means the


Emergency and Disaster Management Act


.








Definition of "critical incident"





2



For the purposes of paragraph (a) (ii) of the definition of

"critical incident"

in section 1 (1) of the Act, the recovery of human remains is a prescribed purpose.








Definition of "specialized measure"





3



For the purposes of the definition of

"specialized measure"

in section 1 (1) of the Act, providing any of the following types of services is a prescribed type of action:






(a)


search and rescue services;






(b)


emergency support services;






(c)


emergency radio communications services.








Definition of "volunteer"





4



For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of "volunteer" in section 1 (1) of the Act, monetary compensation in relation to actions or measures, or time spent taking actions or measures, does not include an honorarium in relation to those actions, measures or time.








Authorization of public safety provider





5



(1)


The provincial administrator may, under section 30 (3) of the Act, grant an authorization to a person that is valid only for a specified period.






(2)


If all or part of an authorization granted under section 30 (3) of the Act is valid only for a specified period, upon expiry of the specified period the whole or part of the authorization is deemed to be revoked by the provincial administrator.








Requests for deployment of volunteers





6



For the purposes of section 32 (2) (f) of the Act, the following persons are prescribed:






(a)


a coroner as defined in section 1 of the


Coroners Act


;






(b)


a person retained to act as a coroner under section 55 of the


Coroners Act


.








Giving of notice by protected employee





7



(1)


For the purposes of section 155 (2) (a) of the Act, a protected employee must give written notice to the employer as follows:






(a)


notice must be given as soon as practicable after the protected employee is notified that they will be deployed under section 32 (4) of the Act or is notified of the order or emergency instrument referred to in section 155 (1)  (b) of the Act;






(b)


notice must include the following information:






(i)


the protected employee's name, address and contact information, including contact information for the period the protected employee is deployed under section 32 (4) of the Act or is required to comply with the order or emergency instrument referred to in section 155 (1)  (b) of the Act;






(ii)


in the case of a protected employee who is deployed under section 32  (4) of the Act,






(A)


the protected employee's unique training or experience, and






(B)


the name of the person or entity that deployed the protected employee;






(iii)


details of the purpose for which the protected employee is deployed under section 32 (4) of the Act or is required to comply with the order or emergency instrument referred to in section 155 (1) (b) of the Act, including the nature of the actions the protected employee will be taking, where the actions will be taken and the nature of the critical incident or emergency;






(iv)


the start date and, if known, the expected end date of the period the protected employee will be deployed under section 32 (4) of the Act or be required to comply with the order or emergency instrument referred to in section 155 (1) (b) of the Act.






(2)


If, after notice is given in accordance with subsection (1), the expected end date of the period referred to in subsection (1) (b) (iv) changes, the protected employee must, as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the change, give written notice to the employer of the new expected end date of the period.






(3)


A protected employee may give written notice to an employer under section 155  (2) (a) of the Act or this section as follows:






(a)


if the employer is an individual, by leaving the notice with the individual;






(b)


by sending the notice to the employer by ordinary mail, registered mail, electronic mail or fax;






(c)


by leaving the notice with an individual, or in a mailbox or mail slot, at the employer's place of business.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Emergency and Disaster Management Act


, S.B.C. 2023, c. 37, ss. 165 (a), (c) and (e), 172 (f) and 173.]



