







B.C. Reg. 302/2010

M284/2010


Deposited October 19, 2010






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to Point in Time




Clean Energy Act



Exempt Projects, Programs, Contracts

and Expenditures Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 227/2011, December 8, 2011]






Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Clean Energy Act

;



"AltaGas Northwest Projects Umbrella Agreement"

means the agreement, dated May 28, 2010, between Coast Mountain Hydro
Limited Partnership and the transmission corporation;


"FK Project"
has the same meaning as in the AltaGas Northwest Projects Umbrella
Agreement;



"Mclymont Project"

has the same meaning as in the AltaGas Northwest Projects Umbrella
Agreement;



"Volcano Project"

has the same meaning as in the AltaGas Northwest Projects Umbrella
Agreement.

[am. B.C. Reg. 227/2011, s. (a).]





Northwest Transmission Line




2


For the purposes of sections 7 and 8 of the Act, the Northwest
Transmission Line is further described as including the following:




(a)

the agreement, dated May 28, 2010, between Coast Mountain Hydro
Limited Partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and
sale of electricity generated at the FK Project;




(a.1)

the agreement, dated November 2, 2011, between Coast Mountain Hydro
Limited Partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and
sale of electricity generated at the Mclymont Project;




(a.2)

the agreement, dated November 2, 2011, between Coast Mountain Hydro
Limited Partnership and the authority relating to the purchase and
sale of electricity generated at the Volcano Project;




(b)

the AltaGas Northwest Projects Umbrella Agreement;




(c)

a substation in the vicinity of Bob Quinn Lake and related facilities
and equipment, including communication, voltage support and protection
and control equipment;




(d)

287 kilovolt transmission circuits and related facilities between the
authority's substation at Skeena and the substation referred to in
paragraph (c);




(e)

the following activities related to the substation, facilities and
equipment referred to in paragraph (c) and the circuits and facilities
referred to in paragraph (d), whether or not the substation or
circuits are completed or put into service:




(i)

constructing, operating, maintaining and administrating;




(ii)

acquiring or holding rights-of-way, permits, licences, certificates,
consents and other authorizations;




(iii)

engineering and procuring;




(iv)

negotiating, entering into and carrying out agreements with First
Nations;




(v)

demobilizing and decommissioning;




(vi)

securing financing.

[am. B.C. Reg. 227/2011, s. (b).]





Agreements with pulp and paper customers




3


For the purposes of sections 7 and 8 of the Act, the agreements with
pulp and paper customers eligible for funding under Canada's Green
Transformation Program are further described as including the
following:




(a)

electricity purchasing agreements, under which the authority may
acquire, in aggregate, up to 1 200 gigawatt hours per year of energy;




(b)

incentive funding agreements, under which the authority may provide an
incentive payment for energy efficiency projects to acquire, in
aggregate, up to 200 gigawatt hours per year of energy savings;




(c)

customer-funded project agreements, under which customers agree to
implement energy efficiency projects without an incentive payment from
the authority;




(d)

umbrella agreements that create a contractual link between the
agreements referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).






Exemption




4


The authority is exempt from section 44.2 (2) of the

Utilities Commission Act

with respect to the agreements referred to in section 3 (b) of this
regulation.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Clean Energy Act

, S.B.C. 2010, c. 22, section 37]



