






B.C. Reg. 201/2020


O.C. 455/2020



Deposited August 4, 2020


effective September 1, 2020







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)





Human Rights Code




Human Rights Commissioner's Inquiry Regulation








Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"application"

means an application to the commissioner under section 47.16

[commissioner's order powers for inquiries]

of the


Human Rights Code


, for variance or rescission of an order;



"order"

means a written order made by the commissioner under section 47.16 of the


Human Rights Code


.








Service of order





2



(1)


An order may be served on the person who is subject to the order as follows:






(a)


by ordinary mail, registered mail or courier sent to the person's last known address or to the address provided by the person for the purpose of receiving the order;






(b)


by email sent to the email address provided by the person for the purpose of receiving the order;






(c)


by email sent to the person's last known email address.






(2)


An order sent as contemplated by subsection (1) (c) is not effectively served unless the person who is subject to the order confirms, either verbally or by email, that the order was received.






(3)


An order is deemed to have been received by the person who is subject to the order






(a)


8 days after the order is mailed, if the order is sent by ordinary mail as contemplated by subsection (1) (a), or






(b)


3 days after the order is sent, if the order is sent by email as contemplated by subsection (1) (b).






(4)


An order is conclusively deemed to have been received by the person who is subject to the order






(a)


8 days after the order is mailed or received by the courier, unless the person actually received the order before that day, if the order is sent by registered mail or courier as contemplated by subsection (1) (a), or






(b)


on the date the person who is subject to the order confirms, in accordance with subsection (2), that the order was received, if the order is sent by email as contemplated by subsection (1) (c).








Application for variation or rescission





3



An application must






(a)


be made in writing,






(b)


be sent by ordinary mail, registered mail, courier or email, and






(c)


include the following information:






(i)


the applicant's name;






(ii)


the applicant's address, phone number and email address;






(iii)


the reason why the order should be varied or rescinded;






(iv)


a description of the requested variance, if applicable;






(v)


any information required by the commissioner to decide the application.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Human Rights Code


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 210, s. 49 (2).]



