







B.C. Reg. 825/74

O.C. 3956/74


Filed December 18, 1974






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Mineral Land Tax Act


Mineral Land Tax Adjustment Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]




Erroneous assessment; supplementary notice




1


Where any mineral land tax has been erroneously assessed and levied
against mineral land, the administrator shall cancel the erroneous
assessment and issue a supplementary notice of mineral land tax
assessment to correct the error.






Credit for tax erroneously paid




2

(1)


Where mineral land tax was paid with respect to an erroneous
assessment, a credit in the amount of the tax paid on the erroneous
assessment shall be established in respect of the person who paid the
tax.




(2)

A credit established in accordance with subsection (1) herein shall be
applied to any unpaid mineral land tax assessed against the person in
respect of whom the credit is established, and then, if there is any
remaining credit, it shall be refunded to the person who paid the tax,
upon the person's request.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]





Time for payment of unpaid balance




3

(1)


Where a supplementary notice of mineral land tax assessment is issued
in accordance with section 1 herein and results in an unpaid balance
of mineral land tax, the owner of the assessed mineral lands shall
have 90 days from the date of issue of the supplementary assessment
within which to pay the unpaid balance of mineral land tax before
interest is chargeable on the unpaid tax in accordance with
section 17 of the Act.




(2)

Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the supplementary notice of mineral
land tax is issued to the same person who was issued the original
notice of mineral land tax assessment, and any mineral land tax was
delinquent pursuant to the original assessment, then the unpaid
delinquent mineral land tax under the supplementary assessment that
was equal to or less than the tax assessed under the original notice
of mineral land tax assessment shall bear interest in accordance with
section 17 of the Act from the date the taxes became delinquent
pursuant to the original assessment, but if any unpaid balance of
mineral land tax under the supplementary notice of mineral land tax is
in excess of the amount indicated in the original assessment, that
unpaid balance shall bear interest in accordance with section 17 on
any portion of the excess balance which remains unpaid after 90 days
from the date of issue of the supplementary assessment.






Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 47/94, s. (b) (i).]






Surrender of mineral land




5

(1)


Where an owner surrenders all of the owner's mineral land included in
a notice of mineral land tax assessment, the administration shall
cancel all taxes and interest due with respect to the mineral land
surrendered to the Crown in right of the Province.




(2)

Where an owner surrenders part of the owner's mineral land included in
a notice of mineral land tax assessment, the administrator shall
cancel the notice of mineral land tax assessment for that year and
issue a supplementary notice of mineral land tax assessment covering
the mineral land retained by the owner, provided that the mineral land
included in the original notice was not subject to forfeiture in
accordance with section 13 of the Act.




(3)

A supplementary notice of mineral land tax assessment issued under
section 5 (2) of these regulations shall be deemed to have been issued
on April 30 of the year in which it is issued.




(4)

Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no refund shall be
made with respect to any mineral land tax and interest which have been
paid by an owner for mineral land that has been surrendered unto the
Crown in right of the Province.

[am. B.C. Regs. 47/94, s. (b) (ii); 76/2022, s. 7.]


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Mineral Land Tax Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 290, s. 21.]



