






B.C. Reg. 413/98


O.C. 1421/98



Deposited November 19, 1998







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time





Environmental Management Act




Mushroom Compost Facilities Regulation



[Last amended February 5, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 11/2021]









Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"active aeration"

means continuously






(a)


forcing air into goody water by means of a submerged pipe, and






(b)


circulating all of the goody water using mechanical agitation;



"agricultural by-products"

include animal manure, used mushroom-growing substrate and agricultural vegetative debris;



"goody water"

, also known as brown water, means a combination of leachate
and any water, precipitation or runoff that is






(a)


collected by drainage from the mushroom compost facility, and






(b)


contained in a piping system or lagoon, or enclosed facility as described in
section 3 (1) (f) of the Schedule, in the mushroom compost facility;



"leachate"

means






(a)


liquid effluent originating from organic materials being received, processed,
composted, cured or stored at a mushroom compost facility, or






(b)


any water, precipitation or runoff that has come into contact with, or mixed
with, the liquid effluent described in paragraph (a);



"mushroom compost"

means a growing medium for mushrooms produced through
the biological decomposition of organic materials under controlled
circumstances;



"mushroom compost facility"

means a facility for the production of
mushroom compost;



"nitrogen-rich materials"

means manure and other sources of
nitrogen;



"organic materials"

means straw, hay, other vegetative materials or
manure.


[am. B.C. Regs. 236/2013, s. 2; 7/2019, Sch. 3, s. 1.]








Exemption





2



(1)


A person is exempt from section 6 (2) and (3) of the


Environmental Management              Act


for the purposes of the operation of a mushroom compost
facility if the person






(a)


has submitted a pollution prevention plan under section 2 of the Schedule
respecting the mushroom compost facility, and






(b)


complies with the conditions in the Schedule.






(2)


Subsection (1) does not apply






(a)


to the composting of agricultural by-products to which the Code of Practice for Agricultural Environmental Management applies, or






(b)


to the discharge of liquid waste or solid waste to land or water.


[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 14; 236/2013, s. 3; 7/2019, Sch. 3, s. 2.]





Schedule


[am. B.C. Regs. 321/2004, s. 15; 236/2013, ss. 3 to 10; 7/2019, Sch. 3, s. 3; 11/2021, App. 3, s. 13.]



Conditions for Exemption under Section 2 of this Regulation








Discharge causing pollution





1



Air contaminants from the mushroom compost facility must not be discharged in a manner that causes pollution.








Conditions respecting pollution prevention planning





2



(1)


A pollution prevention plan for the mushroom compost facility must be






(a)


prepared and implemented respecting the air, site surface water and ground water, and






(b)


reviewed and confirmed by an agrologist registered under the

Professional Governance Act

or a professional engineer whose area of professional specialty includes the preparation and implementation of these pollution prevention plans.






(2)


The pollution prevention plan referred to in subsection (1) must






(a)


take into consideration all sources of air contaminants and liquid effluent from the mushroom compost facility, and






(b)


include all of the following:






(i)


an operation and maintenance plan for the mushroom compost
facility;






(ii)


a monitoring and reporting program for the mushroom compost
facility;






(iii)


a requirement for active aeration.






(3)


The pollution prevention plan referred to in subsection (1) must be submitted to
a director at least 45 days before it is implemented.






(4)


On review of the pollution prevention plan referred to in subsection (1) and
consideration of the site specific circumstances, the director, by written notice within
45 days of receipt of the pollution prevention plan, may require changes to the
pollution prevention plan that the director considers necessary to assure adequate
pollution prevention and public health protection.








Conditions respecting design and operation





3



(0.1)


The design and construction of the mushroom compost facility must be supervised
and approved by a professional engineer whose area of professional specialty includes
the design and construction of these facilities.






(1)


The mushroom compost facility must be designed and constructed such that the
mushroom compost facility






(a)


is on asphalt or concrete, or other similar impermeable surface, that prevents
the release of leachate into the environment,






(b)


is graded to prevent the pooling of water where agricultural by-products or mushroom
compost is received, processed, cured or stored,






(c)


is designed to prevent runoff from entering the areas where agricultural by-products
or mushroom compost is received, processed, cured or stored,






(d)


includes covered storage for organic materials, except baled straw or hay, to
prevent exposure to precipitation,






(e)


includes an enclosed building with an aerated floor, designed to ensure the
mushroom compost is maintained in an aerobic condition, and with a negative pressure
differential between the inside and outside of the building in which the composting
process occurs with air emissions directed to collection and treatment in the manner
described in paragraph (g),






(f)


includes an enclosed facility or facilities maintained under negative pressure
for all goody water with air emissions directed to collection and treatment in the
manner described in paragraph (g),






(g)


includes an air emission collection and treatment system, designed and
certified by a professional engineer whose area of professional specialty includes the
design of these systems, that consists of a wet scrubber and biofilter to reduce air
contaminants to a concentration that will not cause pollution, and






(h)


includes a leachate and goody water collection and treatment system, designed
and certified by a professional engineer whose area of professional specialty includes
the design of these systems, that incorporates screening, active aeration and
storage.






(2)


The designs referred to in subsection (1) (g) and (h) must be submitted to a
director at least 45 days before construction of the mushroom compost facility
begins.






(3)


On review of the designs referred to in subsection (1) (g) and (h) and
consideration of the site specific circumstances, the director, by written notice within
45 days of receipt of the designs, may require changes to the designs that the director
considers necessary to assure adequate pollution prevention and public health
protection.






(4)


The operation of the mushroom compost facility must






(a)


conduct the pre-wetting of straw or hay only






(i)


on an aerated floor, or






(ii)


in a dunk tank within an enclosed storage facility as described in
subsection (1) (f),






(b)


store pre-wetted straw or hay only on an aerated floor,






(c)


move the mixture of the wetted straw or hay, other organic materials and
gypsum and the nitrogen-rich material into the enclosed building described in
subsection (1) (e) within the same calendar day as the day of mixing,






(d)


perform all other stages of the composting process, after mixing the straw or
hay with the nitrogen-rich material, in the enclosed building described in subsection
(1) (e), and






(e)


be conducted only as designed.






(5)


The mushroom compost facility may be designed, constructed or operated in a
manner other than as set out in subsections (1) and (4) if a director states in writing
that the variation is capable of providing an equal degree of treatment, public health
protection and treatment reliability.








Conditions respecting reporting





4



(1)


A letter confirming review and evaluation of the mushroom compost facility must
be submitted to a director






(a)


within 3 months after the commencement of operation of the mushroom compost
facility,






(b)


within 3 months after completion of a modification to the mushroom compost
facility, and






(c)


each year as described in subsection (3).






(2)


The letter referred to in subsection (1) must be prepared by a professional
engineer whose area of professional specialty includes pollution prevention and it must
include the following information:






(a)


the name, address, email address, telephone number and fax number for the
mushroom compost facility owner or operator;






(b)


a description of the mushroom compost facility, including a description of the
treatment works;






(c)


the location of the mushroom compost facility;






(d)


whether the mushroom compost facility is operating as designed;






(e)


the design annual production capacity in cubic metres, at the actual moisture
content.






(3)


Annual reports respecting the mushroom compost facility for the previous
calendar year must be submitted on or before March 30 of each year and must






(a)


provide the information, including any changes since the submission of the
preceding report, required in subsection (2),






(b)


state the actual cubic metre production of the mushroom compost facility
during the preceding calendar year, and






(c)


describe any changes to the designs described in section 3 (1) (g) and (h) of
this Schedule since the submission of the preceding report.








Posting of security





5



(1)


A security deposit must be posted in a form acceptable to a director in an
amount calculated by multiplying the design annual production capacity in cubic metres,
as submitted most recently under section 4 (2) (e) of this Schedule at the actual
moisture content, by 75 cents per cubic metre.






(2)


If a director advises the owner or operator of the mushroom compost facility in
writing that the mushroom compost facility, or its operation, is not in compliance with
this regulation and the owner or operator does not within 30 days of receipt of this
notice provide the director with a remedial plan that the director considers adequate to
remedy the non-compliance, the director may use all or part of the security deposit
posted under subsection (1)






(a)


to engage a consultant to advise the director of the measures that would most
effectively and efficiently end the non-compliance in the most cost efficient
manner,






(b)


to engage, after considering the advice received under paragraph (a), a
contractor to carry out the measures the director considers most appropriate to end
the non-compliance, and






(c)


to monitor the mushroom compost facility to ascertain whether the measures
carried out under paragraph (b) have remedied the non-compliance.






(3)


The security deposit posted under subsection (1) must be replenished for the
amount expended by the director under subsection (2) within 30 days of receipt by the
owner or operator of the mushroom compost facility of written notice of the amount
expended.








Repealed





6



Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 413/98, s. 6 (2).]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Environmental Management Act


, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, s. 138.]



