







B.C. Reg. 53/2002

Schedule 3 of O.C. 1367/97


Deposited March 20, 2002







This consolidation is current to August 29, 2023.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after August 29, 2023.





Link to Point in Time




Muskwa-Kechika Management Area Act


Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan Regulation


[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 269/2010, October 4, 2010]




Contents







1.0 — Introduction








1.1 — The Muskwa-Kechika Management Area









1.2 — Development of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan








2.0 — Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan Implementation








2.1 — Roles and Responsibilities







2.1.1 Advisory Board







2.1.2 Inter-Agency Management Committee







2.1.3 First Nations






3.0 — Direction for Local Strategic Planning








3.1 — Local Strategic Plans








3.2 — Approval of Local Strategic Plans









3.3 — Requirements for Local Strategic Plans








3.3.1 Landscape unit objective






3.3.2 Pre-tenure plan







3.3.3 Recreation management plan








3.4 — Exceptions to Requirements for Local Strategic Planning









3.5 — Consistency of Plans, Approvals, Permits and Other
Instruments








4.0 — Direction for Operational Activity









4.1 — Consistency with Local Strategic Plan









4.1.1 Forest and range resources








4.1.2 Oil and gas exploration and development








4.1.3 Commercial backcountry recreation







4.1.4 Park management






4.1.5 Wildlife management







4.2 — Approval of Forest Development Plans









4.3 — Approval of Special-Use Permits







5.0 — Monitoring and Amendment







5.1 — Annual Monitoring Report







5.2 — Amendment







5.2.1 Interim amendments







5.2.2 Scheduled amendments — plan review








5.3 — Consultation and Notice Requirements








5.3.1 Consultation






5.3.2 Notice





6.0 — Transition Provisions








6.1 — Grandparenting of Existing Plans and Permits









6.2 — Transition Approval of Forest Development Plans









6.3 — Renewable or Replaceable Agreements and Permits








6.4 — Consistency with Amendments






7.0 — General Management Direction








7.1 — General Management Direction for the Muskwa-Kechika
Management Area









7.2 — Fort Nelson LRMP General Management Direction









7.3 — Fort St. John LRMP General Management Direction








8.0 — Special Resource Management Zones









8.1 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Special Resource
Management Zones









8.2 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort Nelson
LRMP Special Resource Management Zones








8.2.1 Eight Mile/Sulphur






8.2.2 Aeroplane Lake






8.2.3 Churchill






8.2.4 Fishing






8.2.5 Moodie






8.2.6 Muskwa West






8.2.7 Prophet






8.2.8 Rabbit






8.2.9 Rainbow






8.2.10 Sandpile






8.2.11 Stone Mountain






8.2.12 Terminal






8.2.13 Kechika River Corridor






8.2.14 Muskwa River Corridor






8.2.15 Toad River Corridor







8.2.16 Turnagain/Dall Rivers Corridor








8.3 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort St.
John LRMP Special Resource Management Zones








8.3.1 Besa-Halfway-Chowade






8.3.2 Graham-North






9.0 — Enhanced Resource Development Zones









9.1 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Enhanced
Resource Management Zones









9.2 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort Nelson
LRMP Enhanced Resource Management Zones








9.2.1 Alaska Highway Corridor






10.0 — Protection Resource Management Zones









10.1 — Management Direction for Provincial Parks, Recreation
Areas and Ecological Reserves









10.1.1 Sikanni Chief River Ecological Reserve








10.1.2 Tetsa River Provincial Park








10.1.3 Liard River Hot Springs Provincial Park








10.1.4 Stone Mountain Provincial Park








10.1.5 Muncho Lake Provincial Park








10.1.6 Wokkpash Recreation Area








10.2 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Protection
Resource Management Zones









10.3 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for the Fort
Nelson LRMP Protection Resource Management Zones









10.3.1 Denetiah (including Access Corridor and Dall River
Old Growth Site)







10.3.2 Liard River Corridor







10.3.3 Northern Rocky Mountains








10.3.4  Horneline Creek Protected Area








10.3.5 Prophet River Hot Springs Protected Area








10.3.6 Toad River Hot Springs Protected Area








10.4 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for the Fort
St. John LRMP Protection Resource Management Zones








10.4.1 Graham-Laurier






10.4.2 Redfern-Keily Creek







1.0 — Introduction





1.1 — The Muskwa-Kechika Management Area



The Muskwa-Kechika Management Area encompasses an area of approximately
4.45 million hectares of Crown land where extensive boreal plains
and muskeg of the east meet the Rocky Mountains of the west. It is
bounded on the south by the Needham Creek drainage in the Misinchinka
Range, on the west by the Rocky Mountains, on the east by the Muskwa and
Halfway Plateaus and on the north by the Liard Plain. The area overlaps
the Fort Nelson and Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Planning
areas.


The area includes parts of the Alberta plateau, the Rocky Mountain
Foothills, the Liard Plateau, and the Liard Plain. The topography of the
area rises from the vast flat Alberta plateau up the rolling foothill
landscapes to the rugged height of the Rocky Mountains. The river
systems run straight, meander and braid their way through the deeply cut
bedrock of the mountains. This entire region is within the Arctic
watershed and is largely drained by the Liard, Muskwa, Toad, Kechika and
Sikanni Chief Rivers.


It is one of the few remaining large, intact and almost unroaded
wilderness areas south of the 60th parallel. It supports a diverse
number of large mammals including moose, elk, mule deer, whitetail deer,
caribou, plains bison, mountain sheep, mountain goat, wolves, black
bears and grizzly bears in population densities of global importance.
Few places in the world match the natural features of the Muskwa-Kechika
Management Area in terms of species groupings, remoteness and minimal
development. The area is also well endowed with rich energy and mineral
resources. In general, oil and gas reserves dominate the eastern portion
of the area while a variety of metallic and non-metallic resources can
be found in the central and western portions of the area. Valuable
timber resources are also present in the southern portion of the area.


There are numerous First Nations groups within the area including the
Fort Nelson First Nation, Prophet River First Nation, Kaska Dena First
Nation, Lower Post First Nation and the Halfway River Band. A portion of
the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area is within the area covered by
Treaty 8.


The Fort Nelson-Liard and Peace Regional Districts are within the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Area and include the settlements of Toad River
and Muncho Lake.




1.2 — Development of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan



Objectives for the management of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area were
developed as part of the Fort Nelson and Fort St. John Land and Resource
Management Plans. Participants in these processes recommended that the
objectives for the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area be formally designated
establishing a separate jurisdiction: the Muskwa-Kechika Management
Area. The Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan identifies objectives for the
management of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area and specifies an
integrated and coordinated planning structure to meet these objectives.
Sections 2.0 to 6.0 describe the management framework and
sections 7.0 to 10.0 specify the objectives for management.




2.0 — Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan Implementation



The Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan will be implemented by all relevant
government agencies through agency-specific management activities, local
strategic plans, resource development permits and Crown land and natural
resource dispositions. Development plans and permits will be consistent
with the objectives and strategies of resource management zones and any
local strategic plans as specified in the Management Plan.


Local strategic plans will include a description of the linkages to the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan and an explanation of how the local
strategic plan meets the objectives and strategies outlined in this
plan. Conversely, it is recognized that the resource management zone
objectives and strategies in this plan may be amended in the future
based on feedback from local strategic plans.




2.1 — Roles and Responsibilities





2.1.1 Advisory Board



An Advisory Board, appointed by the Premier, will advise government on
natural resource management in the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area to
ensure that activities within the area are consistent with the
objectives of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan.

The Advisory Board will be responsible for:

(a) conducting semi-annual reviews of the issuance of tenures and
approval of operational activities to examine the achievement of
management plan objectives through local strategic planning and
operational activities;


(b) reporting, at least annually, to the public and the Premier on the
results of the Board's semi-annual reviews and any other issues related
to the management of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area;


(c) providing advice to the Inter-Agency Management Committee on
corporate priorities for and coordination of local strategic planning in
the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area;


(d) facilitating provincial, national and international exposure of the
values and management of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area;


(e) recommending and implementing measures to raise money for a
Muskwa-Kechika Fund;


(f) reviewing proposals and funding requests for, but not limited to,
research projects; and making recommendations for expenditures from the
Muskwa-Kechika Fund;


(g) supporting the initiation of local strategic plans for the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, to achieve the management plan
objectives;


(h) ensuring adequate public consultation in the preparation and
approval of local strategic plans, amendments to the Muskwa-Kechika
Management Plan, any other significant policy issue for the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, or as requested by the Inter-Agency
Management Committee;


(i) providing recommendations to the Environment and Land Use Committee
on any proposed amendments to the Management Plan.


The Premier will appoint up to 17 members to the Advisory Board,
including a Board Chair, such that the Advisory Board represents a broad
range of interests. These would include, but not be limited to, First
Nations, environmental groups, business, labour and Fort Nelson and Fort
St. John Land and Resource Management Plan participants. Kaska Dena
representatives would be appointed in accordance with the Letter of
Understanding between the Kaska Dena Council and the Province of British
Columbia, signed September 24, 1997.


Advisory Board members will be individuals noted for their scientific,
financial or community service experience and expertise. Advisory Board
appointments will be for a period of 1 to 3 years and will be
staggered to provide continuity of Board operations.


The Premier may also appoint up to five members as an Honorary Board.
who will be individuals of provincial, national or international
stature. These members will serve as ambassadors to assist in raising
the profile of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, but may not
participate fully in the working of the Advisory Board proper. The
Advisory Board Chair will be the Chair of the Honorary Board.




2.1.2 Inter-Agency Management Committee



The responsibilities of the Inter-Agency Management Committee are as
follows:


(a) to assist in resolving conflicts between agencies and resource
users;


(b) to maintain a registry of plan documents and plan amendments,
including the Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan and local strategic plans,
available to the public and any interested parties;


(c) to review and provide recommendations to the Environment and Land
Use Committee on any proposed amendments;


(d) in partnership with the Advisory Board, to provide for and
coordinate public review and consultation as necessary;


(e) in consultation with the Advisory Board, to prepare an annual
inter-agency workplan to facilitate the implementation of the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan;


(f) to work in partnership with the Advisory Board to prepare an annual
monitoring report on plan implementation, amendments and expenditures.




2.1.3 First Nations



A Letter of Understanding, dated September 24, 1997, establishes an
agreement between the Kaska Dena Council and the Province of British
Columbia regarding the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area. The
Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan is without prejudice to aboriginal or
treaty rights and treaty negotiations. First Nations will be encouraged
to have a direct role in the implementation and monitoring of the plan.




3.0 — Direction for Local Strategic Planning





3.1 — Local Strategic Plans



Local strategic plans must be consistent with the Muskwa-Kechika
Management Plan. Local strategic plans are defined and may be
established, varied or canceled as follows:


Landscape unit objective


(a) A local strategic plan for the purpose of forest and range use is a
landscape unit objective or objectives, as defined by the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and established, varied or canceled in accordance with the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
and the Management Plan.


Pre-tenure plan


(b) A local strategic plan for the purpose of oil and gas exploration
and development is a pre-tenure plan, as defined by the

Memorandum of Understanding Respecting Operational Land Use Planning
for Oil and Gas Activity in the Northeast of British Columbia,
July 31, 1996

, or amendments thereof approved by the Minister of Environment, Lands
and Parks, the Minister of Forests and the Minister of Employment and
Investment.


Recreation management plan


(c) A local strategic plan for the purpose of recreation is a recreation
management plan, as defined by the

Memorandum of Understanding Respecting Recreation Planning in the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, December 1997

or amendments thereof approved by the Minister of Environment, Lands and
Parks, the Minister of Forests and the Minister of Small Business,
Tourism and Culture.


Park management plan


(d) A local strategic plan for the purpose of the management of a park,
ecological reserve or recreation area is a park management plan, as
defined by
Parks Master Plan Policy, April 15, 1986
and the attached zoning amendment, or the

Guidelines Booklet for Management Direction Statements, 1996

, or amendments of either as approved by the Minister of Environment,
Lands and Parks.


Wildlife management plan


(e) A local strategic plan for the purpose of wildlife management is a
wildlife management plan, as defined by the

Planning Guide to Wildlife Management Areas, September 1996

, or amendments thereof as approved by the Minister of Environment,
Lands and Parks.




3.2 — Approval of Local Strategic Plans



Landscape unit objective


(a) The establishment, variance or cancellation of a landscape unit
objective requires approval of the designated forest official, the
designated environment official and the designated employment and
investment official.


Recreation management plan


(b) The approval, variance or cancellation of a recreation management
plan requires approval of the Minister of Small Business, Tourism and
Culture and the Environment and Land Use Committee and that the plan be
established as part of Schedule 6 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management
Order.


Pre-tenure plan


(c) The approval, variance or cancellation of a pre-tenure plan requires
approval of the Environment and Land Use Committee and that the plan be
established as part of Schedule 6 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management
Order.


(d) The approval, variance or cancellation of all other local strategic
plans requires approval by the Environment and Land Use Committee and
that the plan be established as part of Schedule 6 of the
Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan.




3.3 — Requirements for Local Strategic Plans



Except as specified in section 3.4, local strategic plans are
prerequisite to approval of operational activities as follows:




3.3.1 Landscape unit objective



The approval of a forest development plan (as defined by the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
) for a specific geographic area must be preceded by the approval of a
landscape unit objective or objectives for a landscape unit which
includes the area of the forest development plan.




3.3.2 Pre-tenure plan



The issuance, approval, permitting or authorization, by a minister,
ministry or agent of the Crown, of an oil and gas development plan,
allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or
document of oil and gas development allocation or management must be
preceded by the approval of a pre-tenure plan which includes the subject
area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.




3.3.3 Recreation management plan



The issuance, approval, permitting or authorization, by a minister,
ministry or agent of the Crown, of a commercial backcountry recreation
allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or
document of commercial backcountry recreation allocation or management
for any area within the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, must be preceded
by the approval of a recreation management plan which includes the
subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.




3.4 — Exceptions to Requirements for Local Strategic Planning



Geophysical exploration


(a) A pre-tenure plan is not a prerequisite to the issuance of a permit
under the
Oil and Gas Activities Act
to carry out geophysical exploration.


Wildfire, pest or disease infestation


(b) A local strategic plan is not a prerequisite to the approval,
issuance, permitting, or authorization of an allocation, tenure,
disposition, licence or any other instrument or document of allocation
or management considered necessary to address wildfire or a pest or
disease infestation to forests or wildlife. Operational activities
associated with an outbreak of this kind need only be consistent with
the objectives of the Management Plan.

[am. B.C. Reg. 269/2010, Sch. s. 11.]



3.5 — Consistency of Plans, Approvals, Permits and Other Instruments



Local strategic plans must be consistent with the objectives and
strategies of the Management Plan described in sections 7.0 to
10.0. Approvals, permits and plans which are subsequent to and take
direction from approved local strategic plans must be consistent with
the local strategic plan but need not demonstrate consistency with the
objectives of the Management Plan.




4.0 — Direction for Operational Activity





4.1 — Consistency with Local Strategic Plan



Instruments or documents of allocation or management must be consistent
with local strategic plans that direct their operation, as follows:




4.1.1 Forest and range resources



In accordance with the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
, operational plans for timber or range resource management must be
consistent with established landscape unit objectives. The
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
requires forest and range use activities to be consistent with
applicable operational plans. Range use plans within provincial parks
must be consistent with park management plans.




4.1.2 Oil and gas exploration and development



Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry
or agent of the Crown, of an oil and gas exploration or development
plan, allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument
or document of oil and gas development or exploration allocation or
management must be consistent with any pre-tenure plan which includes
the subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or
management.




4.1.3 Commercial backcountry recreation



Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry
or agent of the Crown, of a commercial backcountry recreation
allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or any other instrument or
document of commercial backcountry recreation allocation or management
for any area within the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area, must be
consistent with any recreation management plan which includes the
subject area of the instrument or document of allocation or management.




4.1.4 Park management



Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry
or agent of the Crown, of an allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or
any other instrument or document affecting park management, must be
consistent with any park management plan which includes the subject area
of the instrument or document of allocation or management.




4.1.5 Wildlife management



Any issuance, approval, permit or authorization, by a minister, ministry
or agent of the Crown, of an allocation, tenure, disposition, licence or
any other instrument or document affecting wildlife management
allocation or management, must be consistent with any wildlife
management plan which includes the subject area of the instrument or
document of allocation or management.




4.2 — Approval of Forest Development Plans



Except as specified in section 6.2, prior to the approval of a forest
development plan (as defined in the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
), the designated forest official must obtain the agreement of the
designated environment official regarding any contents of the forest
development plan which relate directly to the construction,
modification, and deactivation of roads.




4.3 — Approval of Special-Use Permits



The issuance of a special-use permit (as defined by the
Forest Practices Code of British Columbia Act
), for the purpose of providing road access and other infrastructure
outside of mineral claim areas to support mineral exploration or
development requires approval of the designated forest official, the
designated environment official and the designated employment and
investment official.




5.0 — Monitoring and Amendment





5.1 — Annual Monitoring Report



By November 1, 1998, and annually thereafter, the Advisory Board in
partnership with the Inter-Agency Management Committee, will prepare a
monitoring report.


The report will assess the degree to which the objectives outlined in
the Management Plan are being met through management activities, local
strategic planning and development plans and permits.


The report will include all proposed updates and amendments to the
Management Plan or any other recommendations made by the Advisory Board.




5.2 — Amendment



All proposed amendments to the Muskwa-Kechika Management Plan will be
included in the annual monitoring report.




5.2.1 Interim amendments



Issues to be addressed through plan amendment may be identified by any
person, group or agency. Issues which, in the opinion of the
Inter-Agency Management Committee in consultation with the Advisory
Board, require an amendment to the plan and which materially affect the
interest or delivery of objectives of the plan to the extent that they
must be addressed sooner than the scheduled major plan review, will be
addressed through an interim amendment to the plan. When issues arise
that require an interim amendment, the Inter-Agency Management Committee
in consultation with the Advisory Board will establish the schedule and
Terms of Reference for the amendment process, consistent with existing
legislation and regulations.


The Inter-Agency Management Committee and the Advisory Board may make a
recommendation to the Environment and Land Use Committee on the proposed
amendment, taking into consideration the outcome of public consultation.
Final decisions on amendments shall only be made by the Environment and
Land Use Committee. Amendments will only be approved if the Environment
and Land Use Committee is satisfied that requirements for public notice
and consultation of Section 5.3 have been met.




5.2.2 Scheduled amendments — plan review



A major plan review will be undertaken for the entire Management Plan in
November 2005, or at any earlier time as directed by the
Environment and Land Use Committee. The Inter-Agency Management
Committee in consultation with the Advisory Board will establish the
Terms of Reference for the review process, consistent with existing
legislation and regulations. The public and all other interested
parties, agencies and organizations will be involved in the review.


Approval of any proposed amendments resulting from the review will be
given by the Environment and Land Use Committee in accordance with the
requirements for public notice and consultation of Section 5.3.




5.3 — Consultation and Notice Requirements



Sections 5.3.1 and 5.3.2 do not apply to any action taken under or
pursuant to the
Park Act
in respect of the Denetiah, Liard River Corridor, Northern Rocky
Mountains, Graham-Laurier and Redfern-Keily Creek Resource Management
Zones; the Horneline Creek, Prophet River Hot Springs and Toad River Hot
Springs Protected Areas; or the Wokkpash Recreation Area.




5.3.1 Consultation



Before establishing, varying or canceling a resource management zone or
objective, or other significant requirement of the Management Plan, the
Environment and Land Use Committee must publish in the Gazette and in a
newspaper a notice stating


(a) that a resource management zone or objective or requirement of the
plan is proposed to be established, varied or canceled,


(b) the location of the resource management zone,


(i) that is proposed to be established, varied or canceled, or


(ii) to which the objective proposed to be established, varied or
canceled relates, or


(c) that the following are available at regional and district offices of
the Ministry of Environment, Lands and Parks, Ministry of Forests and
Ministry of Employment and Investment:


(i) a copy of the proposed order establishing, varying or canceling the
resource management zone, objective or requirement of the plan;


(ii) in the case of a resource management zone, a copy of the proposed
objectives for the zone;


(iii) in the case of a requirement of the plan, a copy of the proposed
alteration to the plan;


(iv) a map showing the location and boundaries of the resource
management zone


(A) that is proposed to be established, varied or canceled, or


(B) to which the objective proposed to be established, varied or
canceled relates, and


(d) that comments on the proposal may be delivered to the regional or
district office of any of the Ministry of Environment, Lands and Parks,
Ministry of Forests or Ministry of Employment and Investment within
60 days of the date of the last publication of the notice in the
Gazette or newspaper.




5.3.2 Notice



After establishing, varying or canceling a resource management zone or
objective, or other significant requirement of the Management Plan, the
Environment and Land Use Committee must publish in the Gazette and in a
newspaper a notice stating


(a) that a resource management zone or objective or requirement of the
plan has been established, varied or canceled,


(b) the location of the resource management zone,


(i) that has been established, varied or canceled, or


(ii) to which the objective that has been established, varied or
canceled relates, or


(iii) to which the requirement of the plan that has been established,
varied or canceled relates,


(c) that the following are available at regional and district offices of
the Ministry of Environment, Lands and Parks, Ministry of Forests and
Ministry of Employment and Investment:


(i) a copy of the order establishing, varying or canceling the resource
management zone, objective or requirement of the plan;


(ii) in the case of a resource management zone, a copy of the objectives
for the zone;


(iii) in the case of a requirement of the plan, a copy of the alteration
to the plan;


(iv) a map showing the location and boundaries of the resource
management zone


(A) that has been established, varied or canceled, and


(B) to which the objective established, varied or canceled relates.




6.0 — Transition Provisions





6.1 — Grandparenting of Existing Plans and Permits



All existing approvals, issuances, permits and authorizations of plans,
allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences and all other instruments
and documents of allocation and management that were approved prior to
the coming into force of the Management Plan are exempt from the
requirements and objectives of the Management Plan.


This does not prevent by mutual agreement the holder of such an
instrument or document, or an agency primarily responsible for a local
strategic plan, amending the instrument or plan to be consistent with
the requirements and objectives of the Management Plan.




6.2 — Transition Approval of Forest Development Plans



Where a forest development plan or amendment proposes cutblocks or road
construction, and the forest development plan or amendment has been
approved or submitted for approval at the time that the Management Plan
comes into effect, any forest harvesting or road construction that
occurs in the approximate location of that shown in the forest
development plan or amendment are exempt from the requirements of the
Management Plan, provided the designated forest official is satisfied
that these activities are consistent with the spirit and intent of the
Management Plan.




6.3 — Renewable or Replaceable Agreements and Permits



All existing approvals, issuances, permits and authorizations of plans,
allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences and all other instruments
and documents of allocation and management that were approved prior to
the coming into force of the Management Plan which may be renewed or
replaced, must upon renewal or replacement be consistent with the
objectives of the Management Plan and any local strategic plan as
specified by the Management Plan despite any wording in the agreement or
permit to the contrary.




6.4 — Consistency with Amendments



Notwithstanding section 6.2, any existing approvals, issuances, permits
or authorizations of plans, allocations, tenures, dispositions, licences
or any other instrument or document of allocation or management that are
approved prior to any amendment of the Management Plan are not required
to be consistent with the amendment.




7.0 — General Management Direction





7.1 — General Management Direction for the Muskwa-Kechika Management
Area



The management intent for the Muskwa-Kechika Management Area is to
ensure wilderness characteristics, wildlife and its habitat are
maintained over time while allowing resource development and use,
including recreation, hunting, timber harvesting, mineral exploration
and mining, oil and gas exploration and development. The integration of
management activities especially related to the planning, development
and management of road accesses within the Muskwa-Kechika Management
Area is central to achieving this intent. The long-term objective is to
return lands to their natural state, as much as possible, as development
activities are completed.




7.2 — Fort Nelson LRMP General Management Direction



The general management intent described in sections 2.0, 2.1, 2.1.1
to 2.1.18 (pages 11 to 33) of the
Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan, June

1997
(Schedule 4 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order) provide direction to
the management of the Eight Mile/Sulphur, Aeroplane Lake, Churchill,
Fishing, Moodie, Muskwa West, Prophet, Rabbit, Rainbow, Sandpile, Stone
Mountain, Terminal, Kechika River Corridor, Muskwa River Corridor, Toad
River Corridor, Northern Rocky Mountains, Turnagain/Dall Rivers
Corridor, Denetiah, Liard River Corridor and Alaska Highway Corridor
Resource Management Zones; Horneline Creek, Toad River Hot Springs and
Prophet River Hot Springs Protected Areas; the Tetsa River, Liard River
Hot Springs, Muncho Lake and Stone Mountain Provincial Parks; and the
Wokkpash Recreation Area.




7.3 — Fort St. John LRMP General Management Direction



The general management intent described in sections 2.0, 2.1 to
2.1.17 (pages 11 to 24) of the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan, April


1997
(Schedule 5 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order), provides
direction to the management of the Besa-Halfway-Chowade, Graham-North,
Graham-Laurier and Redfern-Keily Creek Resource Management Zones; and
the Sikanni Chief River Ecological Reserve.




8.0 — Special Resource Management Zones



Category Direction and Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort
Nelson LRMP Special Resource Management Zones are described in the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (Schedule 4 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order).




8.1 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Special Resource
Management Zones



The category direction for management described in section 2.2.4
(pages 79 to 82) of the
Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan, June

1997
provides direction to the management of the Eight Mile/Sulphur,
Aeroplane Lake, Churchill, Fishing, Moodie, Muskwa West, Prophet,
Rabbit, Rainbow, Sandpile, Stone Mountain, Terminal, Kechika River
Corridor, Muskwa River Corridor, Toad River Corridor, and Turnagain/Dall
Rivers Corridor Resource Management Zones.




8.2 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort Nelson LRMP
Special Resource Management Zones





8.2.1 Eight Mile/Sulphur



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.1 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 83 to 84) provide direction to the management of the Eight
Mile/Sulphur Resource Management Zone.




8.2.2 Aeroplane Lake



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.2 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 85 to 86) provide direction to the management of the
Aeroplane Lake Resource Management Zone.




8.2.3 Churchill



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.3 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 87 to 89) provide direction to the management of the
Churchill Resource Management Zone.




8.2.4 Fishing



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.4 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 89 to 90) provide direction to the management of the
Fishing Resource Management Zone.




8.2.5 Moodie



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.5 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 91 to 92) provide direction to the management of the
Moodie Resource Management Zone.




8.2.6 Muskwa West



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.6 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 93 to 95) provide direction to the management of the
Muskwa West Resource Management Zone.




8.2.7 Prophet



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.7 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 96 to 98) provide direction to the management of the
Prophet Resource Management Zone.




8.2.8 Rabbit



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.8 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 99 to 100) provide direction to the management of the Rabbit
Resource Management Zone.




8.2.9 Rainbow



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.9 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 101 to 102) provide direction to the management of the
Rainbow Resource Management Zone.




8.2.10 Sandpile



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.10 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan, June 1997

, (pages 103 to 104) provide direction to the management of the
Sandpile Resource Management Zone.




8.2.11 Stone Mountain



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.11 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 107 to 108) provide direction to the management of the
Stone Mountain Resource Management Zone.




8.2.12 Terminal



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.12 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 107 to 108) provide direction to the management of the
Terminal Resource Management Zone.




8.2.13 Kechika River Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.13 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 109 to 111) provide direction to the management of the
Kechika River Corridor Resource Management Zone.




8.2.14 Muskwa River Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.13 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 112 to 114) provide direction to the management of the
Muskwa River Corridor Resource Management Zone.




8.2.15 Toad River Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.15 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 115 to 117) provide direction to the management of the
Toad River Corridor Resource Management Zone.




8.2.16 Turnagain/Dall Rivers Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.16 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 118 to 119) provide direction to the management of the
Turnagain/Dall Rivers Corridor Resource Management Zone.




8.3 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort St. John LRMP
Special Resource Management Zones



Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort St. John LRMP Special
Resource Management Zones are described in the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan, April
1997

, (Schedule 5 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order).




8.3.1 Besa-Halfway-Chowade



The objectives and strategies of section 3.2 of the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan,
April 1997

, (pages 44 to 49) provide direction to the management of
Besa-Halfway-Chowade Resource Management Zone.




8.3.2 Graham-North



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.4.1 of the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan,
April 1997

, (pages 93 to 98) provide direction to the management of the
Graham-North Resource Management Zone.




9.0 — Enhanced Resource Development Zones





9.1 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Enhanced Resource
Management Zones



The category direction for management described in section 2.2.2 of
the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (page 36) provides direction to the management of the Alaska
Highway Corridor Resource Management Zone.




9.2 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort Nelson LRMP
Enhanced Resource Management Zones





9.2.1 Alaska Highway Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.2.1 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 37 to 38) provide direction to the management of the
Alaska Highway Corridor Resource Management Zone.




10.0 — Protection Resource Management Zones





10.1 — Management Direction for Provincial Parks, Recreation Areas and
Ecological Reserves



Objectives for the management of provincial parks, recreation areas and
ecological reserves are described in plans and statements of
Schedule 6 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order, and as specified
below, and are deposited at BC Parks Peace Liard District, Fort St.
John, B.C. and BC Parks Headquarters, Victoria, B.C.




10.1.1 Sikanni Chief River Ecological Reserve



Objectives for management of Sikanni Chief River Ecological Reserve are
described in the Sikanni Chief River Ecological Reserve Statement of
Purpose and Values, March 1993.




10.1.2 Tetsa River Provincial Park



Objectives for management of Tetsa Provincial Park are described in the
Annual Park Management Plan for the Tetsa Provincial Park, approved
January 10, 1995.




10.1.3 Liard River Hot Springs Provincial Park



Objectives for management of Liard River Hot Springs Provincial Park are
described in the Liard River Hot Springs Provincial Park Master Plan,
approved October 28, 1990.




10.1.4 Stone Mountain Provincial Park



Objectives for management of Stone Mountain Provincial Park are
described in the Stone Mountain Provincial Park Master Plan, approved
August 15, 1985.




10.1.5 Muncho Lake Provincial Park



Objectives for management of Muncho Lake Provincial Park are described
in the Muncho Lake Provincial Park Master Plan, approved April 21,
1985.




10.1.6 Wokkpash Recreation Area



Objectives for management of Wokkpash Recreation Area are described in
the Wokkpash Recreation Area Interim Management Statement,
January 1991.




10.2 — Category Direction for Fort Nelson LRMP Protection Resource
Management Zones



The category direction for management described in section 2.2.5
(pages 120-122) of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (Schedule 4 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order) provides
direction to the management of the Denetiah, Northern Rocky Mountains
and Liard River Corridor Resource Management Zones; and the Horneline
Creek, Toad River Hot Springs and Prophet River Hot Springs Protected
Areas.




10.3 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for the Fort Nelson
LRMP Protection Resource Management Zones



Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort Nelson LRMP Special
Resource Management Zones are described in the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (Schedule 4 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order).




10.3.1 Denetiah (including Access Corridor and Dall River Old Growth
Site)



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.1 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 123 to 124) provide direction to the management of the
Denetiah Resource Management Zone which includes the Dall River Old
Growth Site and the Access Corridor.




10.3.2 Liard River Corridor



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.3 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 126 to 127) provide direction to the management of the
Liard River Corridor Resource Management Zone.




10.3.3 Northern Rocky Mountains



The objectives and strategies of section 2.2.5.5 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (pages 129 to 131) provide direction to the management of the
Northern Rocky Mountains Resource Management Zone.




10.3.4 Horneline Creek Protected Area



Section 2.2.5.8 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (page 136) provides direction to the management of the Horneline
Creek Protected Area.




10.3.5 Prophet River Hot Springs Protected Area



Section 2.2.5.8 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (page 137) provides direction to the management of the Prophet
River Hot Springs Protected Area.




10.3.6 Toad River Hot Springs Protected Area



Section 2.2.5.8 of the

Recommended Fort Nelson Land and Resource Management Plan,
June 1997

, (page 137) provides direction to the management of the Toad River
Hot Springs Protected Area.




10.4 — Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for the Fort St. John
LRMP Protection Resource Management Zones



Area-Specific Objectives and Strategies for Fort St. John LRMP
Protection Resource Management Zones are described in the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan,
April 1997

, (Schedule 5 of the Muskwa-Kechika Management Order).




10.4.1 Graham-Laurier



The objectives and strategies of section 4.2.2 of the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan,
April 1997

, (pages 155 to 157) provide direction to the management of the
Graham-Laurier Resource Management Zone.




10.4.2 Redfern-Keily Creek



The objectives and strategies of section 4.2.2 of the

Recommended Fort St. John Land and Resource Management Plan,
April 1997

, (pages 159 to 161) provide direction to the management of the
Redfern-Keily Creek Resource Management Zone.


[Provisions of the

Muskwa-Kechika Management Area Act

, S.B.C. 1998, c. 38, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
sections 17 and 19 (2)]



