







B.C. Reg. 241/90

O.C. 1136/90


Deposited July 30, 1990

effective August 1, 1990





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Natural Gas Price Act


Natural Gas Price Act Regulation No. 2

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]



Part 1 — Interpretation





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Natural Gas Price Act

;



"attributed contract quantity"

in relation to a producer aggregator contract means the volume of gas
attributed to that contract in accordance with a method approved by
the minister;



"cubic metre"

, in relation to a volume of natural gas, means that volume of gas
measured at 101.325 kilopascals and 15 degrees Celsius;



"downstream contract"

means a contract by which an aggregator sells or agrees to sell
netback gas;



"eligible producer"

, in respect of a supply pool, means a person who is a party to, and a
seller of gas under, a producer aggregator contract which is part of
the pool;



"royalty administrator"

means the person appointed as royalty administrator under section 73
(3) of the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

;



"supply pool"

means all of the producer aggregator contracts on which an aggregator
intends to rely as the source of supply for a downstream contract.

[am. B.C. Reg. 355/94, s. (b).]



Part 2 — Minimum Producer Support for Sale of Netback Gas





Minimum support under Act




2


The minimum degree of support under sections 9, 10 and 15 (2) (h) (i)
of the Act is




(a)

a yes vote by a majority of those eligible producers who have voted
yes or no, where those voting yes hold, in the aggregate, more than
50% of the total of the attributed contract quantities of those who
voted yes or no, or




(b)

a redefined minimum degree of support in accordance with section 3.






How to redefine minimum support




3

(1)


For the purposes of section 2 (b), an aggregator




(a)

may, at any time in respect of the aggregator's supply pool, and




(b)

shall, whenever requested by 5% or more of eligible producers in
respect of the aggregator's supply pool,


submit, in accordance with the provisions of section 5 to all eligible
producers of that pool, a proposal of the aggregator under
paragraph (a) or of the producers making the request under
paragraph (b), as the case may be, redefining the majority
required to approve any vote taken in accordance with these
regulations.




(2)

Notwithstanding subsection (1),




(a)

an aggregator may submit the proposal under subsection (1) (a), and




(b)

producers may submit the proposal under subsection (1) (b)

only once every 6 months.



(3)

The aggregator shall conduct a vote on the proposal in accordance with
the procedures in section 5 (1).




(4)

Post voting procedures must be carried out in accordance with section
6.




(5)

If the proposal for a redefined minimum degree of support receives the
minimum degree of support under section 2 and the aggregator wants the
minister to recognize the redefined minimum degree of support, the
aggregator must, within 5 working days of the vote being tallied under
section 6 (a), provide the minister with




(a)

the ballots submitted by eligible producers or photocopies of those
ballots, and




(b)

the results of the tally.




(6)

The aggregator shall notify the producers of the minister's
recognition under subsection (5).




(7)

If the aggregator does not notify the minister in accordance with
subsection (5), the aggregator shall immediately notify the producers
that the minimum degree of support has not been redefined.






What to do before conducting a vote




4

(1)


An aggregator shall, before conducting a vote under this regulation,




(a)

file with the minister the names of all producers who are eligible
producers in respect of that vote, and




(b)

obtain the approval of the minister of the method used to determine
the attributed contract quantity of each producer aggregator contract
comprising the supply pool for the downstream contract that is the
subject of the vote, except where the method for that supply pool has
previously been approved by the minister.




(2)

Where 2 or more producers are parties to a producer aggregator
contract referred to in subsection (1) (b), each of them is entitled
to vote in accordance with this regulation, and the attributed
contract quantity for the contract shall be allocated among those
producers in the manner agreed upon among themselves or, failing
agreement, in accordance with the following:




(a)

if the contract gives each producer a specific undivided interest in
the gas delivered under the contract, the percentage interest of each
producer in the attributed contract quantity for the contract is equal
to that producer's specified undivided interest in the gas delivered
under the contract;




(b)

if the contract does not give each producer a specific undivided
interest in the gas, but does give each producer a specific portion of
the sale proceeds of the gas delivered under the contract, the
percentage interest of each producer in the attributed contract
quantity of the contract is equal to that producer's specified portion
of the sale proceeds of the gas delivered under the contract;




(c)

if the contract does not give each producer a specific undivided
interest in, or a specific portion of the sale proceeds of, the gas
delivered under the contract, the attributed contract quantity for the
contract is divided among the producers equally.






How to conduct a vote




5

(1)


To conduct a vote under this regulation, the aggregator shall send to
each eligible producer, at an address and by a method agreed upon by
the aggregator and the producer, the following:




(a)

a ballot by which the producer may cast the producer's vote as either
"yes", "no" or "abstain";




(b)

a notice which states




(i)

the question which is the subject of the vote in a way which permits
the producer to answer "yes" or "no" or to record an abstention,




(ii)

the ways in which the producer may return the ballot, and the time for
doing so, which shall be not less than 5 working days following the
date on which the producer received the notice or following the date
on which the producer is deemed to have received it under subsection
(3), whichever is the earlier,




(iii)

the attributed contract quantity of each producer aggregator contract
in which the producer is named as a seller and that is part of the
supply pool, and




(iv)

the total attributed contract quantity of all the producer aggregator
contracts which comprise the supply pool;




(c)

where the aggregator seeks approval in respect of the sale of netback
gas under a downstream contract which has been made, a summary of the
downstream contract that contains information appropriate to permit
each of the eligible producers to judge the question which is the
subject of the vote, including




(i)

the effective date and term,




(ii)

the purchase and sales volume obligations of buyer and seller,




(iii)

a description of each obligation of the aggregator which would
significantly affect the value of the contract, including the extent,
if any, for which the aggregator is liable for the costs of gathering,
processing or transmission of the gas,




(iv)

the price or the method by which the price is to be determined,




(v)

the estimated load factor of the contract, and the estimated impact on
the average load factor for the producer aggregator contracts within
the supply pool,




(vi)

where the price payable to the aggregator may be determined or
redetermined by arbitration, the method of conducting the arbitration,
the arbitration procedures and any criteria or guidelines that are to
be followed by the person conducting the arbitration that are not set
out in section 9, and




(vii)

any other information relevant to the commercial impact of the
proposed contract on the producer;




(d)

where the aggregator seeks approval in respect of the sale of netback
gas for which no downstream contract of sale has been made, a summary
of the terms under which the netback gas will be sold by the
aggregator including




(i)

the sales volume obligation, and




(ii)

the price or the manner in which the price is to be determined.




(2)

The aggregator shall send the information listed in subsection (1) (b)
to (d) to the minister at the same time it is sent to the producers.




(3)

For the purposes of subsection (1), a producer shall be deemed to have
received the notice 7 calendar days after the notice is mailed to the
producer at the producer's current address.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]





Post-voting procedures




6


Whenever an aggregator conducts a vote of eligible producers, the
aggregator shall




(a)

ensure that the vote is taken in accordance with section 5 and tallied
promptly,




(b)

count a ballot that is conditional as a spoiled ballot, and




(c)

immediately after the votes are tallied, inform each eligible producer
of




(i)

the number of votes cast for, against and otherwise, and




(ii)

the total of the attributed contract quantities for each of the 3
categories of votes referred in subparagraph (i).






How to obtain the minister's finding of producer support




7

(1)


Where in a vote under section 5 at least the minimum degree of
producer support for the sale is obtained, the aggregator shall make
an application for a finding of producer support.




(2)

An application for a finding of producer support shall contain




(a)

the ballots submitted by eligible producers or photocopies of those
ballots, and




(b)

the results of the tally as reported under section 6 (c).




(3)

The minister may make a finding of producer support notwithstanding
the failure to comply with any of the provisions of these regulations,
provided the minister is satisfied that the minimum degree of support
under section 2 was obtained and that the failure to comply was
not an effective cause of the minimum degree of support being
obtained.




(4)

The aggregator shall inform each eligible producer of the decision
made in respect of the application.






Penalty under section 11 of the Act




8


For the purposes of section 11 of the Act the penalty is $50 per 1 000
cubic metres of natural gas.




Part 3 — Price Arbitration





Price arbitration for downstream gas contracts




9

(1)


Except to the extent to which the parties to a downstream contract
which provides for arbitration otherwise agree, this section applies
to an arbitration under the terms of the downstream contract.




(2)

Where an arbitrator determines the price of the formula or method for
calculating the price at which natural gas is to be sold under a
downstream contract, an arbitrator shall have regard to the price of
any energy source including gas that competes or might compete with
the gas that is the subject of that contract.




Part 4 — Levy





Interpretation




10


In this Part:



"administrative expenses"

means the costs, charges and expenses which are incurred




(a)

by the collector in the course of exercising the powers or performing
the functions and duties conferred on or delegated to the collector
under the Act and this regulation,




(b)

by any person in the course of implementing or administering those
provisions of the

Utilities Commission Act

that deal with energy removal certificates, and




(c)

by the royalty administrator in the course of administering royalty
collections under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

where those costs, charges and expenses are incurred because of the
devolution of British Columbia Petroleum Corporation's marketing
functions;




(d)

by the Mediation and Arbitration Board, established under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

, or by the Energy Resources Division of the minister's ministry in
the administration of the enactments governing the production, sale,
transportation and removal from British Columbia of natural gas;


"collector"
means the royalty administrator;



"fiscal year"

means a period of time beginning on the first day of April and ending
the thirty-first day of March next following, except that the first
fiscal year shall be the period from August 1, 1990 to
March 31, 1991 inclusive;


"levy rate"
means the rate calculated in accordance with section 11;



"marketable gas"

means natural gas that is available for sale for direct consumption as
a domestic, commercial or industrial fuel, or as an industrial raw
material, whether it occurs naturally or results from the processing
of natural gas;


"month"
means a period of time beginning at 9 a.m., Pacific Standard Time, on
the first day of a calendar month and ending at the same time on the
first day of the calendar month next following.

[am. B.C. Regs. 104/93, s. 1; 355/94, s. (b).]





Levy rate




11

(1)


The minister shall, as soon as possible in the case of the first
fiscal year, and not less than 30 days prior to the start of each
fiscal year after that, calculate the levy rate by use of the formula





R =



E

V










where:


R = the levy rate for the fiscal year which is the subject
of the calculation (the
"subject year"
);


E = the estimate made by the minister of the total amount of
administrative expenses which will be incurred during the subject
year;


V = the estimate made by the minister of the volume of
marketable natural gas, stated in units of 1 000 cubic metres,
attributable to the total amount of natural gas which the minister
estimates will be produced during the subject year.




(2)

The minister shall give written notice of the levy rate, as soon as
possible after it is calculated, to each person who is the holder of
an acquisition order and after that to each person to whom an
acquisition order is issued.




(3)

The minister may recalculate the levy rate whenever the minister
concludes that it is reasonable to change either of the component
estimates, and the new rate shall take effect at 9 a.m. Pacific
Standard Time on the first day of the month next following the date on
which the minister gives notice of the amount of the recalculated rate
to substantially all of the producers who, as of that date, are
holders of acquisition orders.

[am. B.C. Regs. 104/93, s. 2; 76/2022, s. 6.]





Levy payment




12

(1)


The collector must invoice each producer who is the holder of an
acquisition order an amount equal to the levy rate multiplied by the
volume of marketable gas produced by that producer for each month up
to and including July, 1998.




(2)

A producer who receives an invoice shall pay to the collector, at the
address that the collector shall from time to time specify, within 10
working days after receipt of the invoice, the amount stated in the
invoice.




(3)

Where a producer is not in agreement with the amount invoiced by the
collector, the collector shall review the invoice if, within 90 days
of the date the collector delivered or faxed the invoice to the
producer, the producer delivers or faxes to the collector a request
for a review with reasons and any supporting documentation.




(4)

A producer who makes a submission under subsection (3) is not exempted
from the requirement to pay under subsection (2).




(5)

Where the collector reviews an invoice under subsection (3) and
determines that the position of the producer is correct, the collector
shall




(a)

invoice the producer for any additional levy owing,




(b)

credit the producer, on the next invoice, for any overpayment, or




(c)

where a producer will not be invoiced, reimburse the producer for any
overpayment.




(6)

A levy payment which is not made within the time period set out in
subsection (2) is subject to a penalty of 10% of the invoice amount or
$25, whichever is greater.




(7)

A penalty assessed under subsection (6) shall be included on the next
invoice to the producer.




(8)

If the production volumes used to produce the invoice in subsection
(1) are adjusted at a later date, the collector shall




(a)

invoice each producer for any additional volume using the levy rate in
effect for the month of production,




(b)

credit each producer, on the next invoice, for any overpayment, or




(c)

where a producer will not be invoiced, reimburse the producer for any
overpayment.




(9)

Where a producer has not paid an invoice from the collector within 45
days after receipt of the invoice, the minister may, after giving 60
days notice to the producer, cancel a permit, licence or lease granted
to the producer under the

Petroleum and Natural Gas Act

.

[am. B.C. Reg. 364/98.]



Part 5 — Miscellaneous





Amounts payable by British Columbia Petroleum Corporation to producers




13


The amounts payable by the British Columbia Petroleum Corporation, in
this section called the
"corporation"
, in respect of natural gas acquired, and in respect of deficiency gas
incurred, under a contract described in section 16

1

of the Act, shall be those amounts which, in the opinion of the
minister, would have been payable had the corporation been replaced by
CanWest Gas Supply Inc. as buyer under the contract in accordance with
the agreement made by the corporation, CanWest Gas Supply Inc., and
CanWest Gas Supply (1989) Ltd. as of the 10th day of May, 1990.






Excessive withholding




14


Notwithstanding section 9 of the Act and the provisions of this
regulation, the minister may revoke or refuse to issue a finding of
producer support if, under a producer aggregator contract, the
aggregator withholds money from an eligible producer in an amount that
is more than 10% of the aggregator's estimated gross annual sales
revenue from the sale of all gas from the supply pool to which the
producer aggregator contract belongs.






1.


Section 16 (1) of S.B.C. 1989-74 was not consolidated in R.S.B.C.
1996-329; section 16 (2) was repealed by 1990-62-11.





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Natural Gas Price Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 329, ss. 9 and 15.]



