






B.C. Reg. 221/2010


487/2010



Deposited June 29, 2010


effective July 1, 2010







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to Point in Time





South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act




Parking Rights Tax Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 91/2013, April 1, 2013]






Part 1 — Interpretation







Interpretation





1



(1)


In this regulation:



"accommodation"

has the same meaning as in the


Provincial Sales Tax Act


;



"Act"

means the


South Coast British                Columbia Transportation Authority Act


;



"parking area"

means, in respect of land, the portion of the
land and any improvements on the land that are used, available or designed for the
parking of motor vehicles;



"registration certificate"

means a registration certificate
issued under section
169.17

[issue of registration certificate]

of the Act;



"reporting period"

means the period of time covered by a
return filed with the administrator under this regulation.






(2)


For the purposes of section 169.28

[inspection and audit powers]

of the Act,

"premises"

includes a tent, booth or other impermanent
structure.






(3)


A word or expression used in this regulation has the same meaning as in
Part 7.1
of the Act.


[am. B.C. Reg. 91/2013, Sch. s. 7.]





Part 2 — Exemptions







Exemptions under section 169.07 of the Act





2



(1)


For the purposes of section 169.07 (a)

[exemptions for residential parking]

of the Act,

"residential parking"

means parking on a parking area
that






(a)


is located in or in close proximity to the building in which the person
parking the motor vehicle resides, and






(b)


is used by the person as the person's primary parking area while the person is
at the person's residence.






(2)


The following parking sites are prescribed for the purposes of section 169.07 (b)

[exemptions for parking at prescribed parking sites]

of the
Act:






(a)


a single motor vehicle parking space on a public street if the purchase price
for the parking right for the space is to be paid into a meter;






(b)


a single motor vehicle parking space if






(i)


the space is made available to a person purchasing accommodation for the
period of accommodation purchased by that person, and






(ii)


the purchase price for the parking right for the space is included, without
being separately identified or negotiated, in the amount charged to that person for
the accommodation;






(c)


a single motor vehicle parking space if






(i)


the parking right for the space is made available to a person as a result of
that person purchasing or leasing space in a building that is located above or in
close proximity to the parking space, and






(ii)


the purchase price for the parking right for the space is included, without
being separately identified or negotiated, in the price for the space in the
building;






(d)


a parking site at which a motor vehicle is parked solely because the condition
of the vehicle is such that it cannot be driven safely;






(e)


a parking site






(i)


in respect of which a person has purchased a parking right for a period of
not less than 28 consecutive days, and






(ii)


at which a motor vehicle that is owned or leased by the person and that is
operated solely in the course of the person's business, is parked when it is not
being operated in the course of that business;






(f)


a parking site in respect of which a person who is in the business of leasing
motor vehicles as lessor has purchased a parking right that is exercised solely for
the parking of some or all of the person's inventory of vehicles while they are not
being leased.





Part 3 — Registration Certificates







Registration certificate of vendor





3



(1)


A vendor must display the vendor's registration certificate in a prominent place
at the vendor's principal place of business in the transportation service
region.






(2)


A vendor that is in the business of selling parking rights at more than one
place of business must






(a)


obtain from the administrator a duplicate of the vendor's registration
certificate in respect of each place of business, and






(b)


display the duplicate certificate in a prominent place at each place of
business.






(3)


Despite subsection (2), a vendor is not required to obtain a duplicate
registration certificate in respect of a place of business that is only a parking
site.








Change of address of vendor





4



If the address of the vendor's principal place of business in the transportation
service region changes, the vendor must immediately return the vendor's registration
certificate to the administrator for amendment.








Change of name or nature of vendor's business





5



If the name or nature of a vendor's business changes, the vendor must
immediately






(a)


return the vendor's registration certificate to the administrator,
and






(b)


apply for a new registration certificate.








Loss or destruction of registration certificate





6



If a vendor's registration certificate is lost or destroyed, the vendor must apply
immediately to the administrator for a duplicate of the original.








Discontinuance of business





7



(1)


Subject to subsection (2), if a vendor is in the business of
selling parking rights at more than one place of business in respect of which a
duplicate registration certificate has been issued and the vendor ceases to sell parking
rights at a place of business, the duplicate of the registration certificate for that
place of business is immediately void and the vendor must destroy the void
duplicate.






(2)


If a vendor disposes of the vendor's business or ceases to sell parking rights
at all places of business in respect of which a registration certificate or duplicate
registration certificate has been issued, the vendor's registration certificate is
immediately void and the vendor must, on or before the date that is 23 days after the
last day of the month in which the vendor disposes of the business or ceases to sell
parking rights,






(a)


advise the administrator of the particulars,






(b)


submit the original and all duplicates of the void registration certificate to
the administrator, and






(c)


deliver a final return in accordance with Part 4.





Part 4 — Returns, Remittances, Payments and Records







Requirement to make return of sales and remittance





8



(1)


The administrator may at any time require a person selling a parking
right






(a)


to deliver to the administrator a return of retail sales of parking rights
covering any reporting period, in a form satisfactory to the administrator,
and






(b)


to remit the amount of tax collected, if any, during that reporting
period.






(2)


A person that is required to deliver a return and remit tax under subsection
(1) must comply with the requirement within the time specified by the
administrator.








Return of sales and remittance by vendor





9



(1)


A vendor must, on or before the date that is 23 days after the last day of each
reporting period in respect of tax collected on sales of parking rights during the
reporting period,






(a)


deliver to the administrator a return in a form satisfactory to the
administrator, and






(b)


remit the amount of tax collected for that reporting period minus authorized
deductions.






(2)


A vendor's reporting period is one month unless otherwise specified by the
administrator.






(3)


If a vendor has not collected tax on sales of parking rights during a reporting
period, the vendor must nonetheless deliver to the administrator a return under
subsection
(1).








Return of sales and remittance by person other than
vendor





10



A person, other than a vendor, who sells a parking right at a retail sale must
immediately






(a)


deliver to the administrator a return in a form satisfactory to the
administrator, and






(b)


remit the amount of tax collected on the sale.








Consolidated and separate returns





11



A separate return must be delivered






(a)


by each person required to deliver a return, and






(b)


for each place where parking rights are sold,


except to the extent that delivering a consolidated return has been approved by
the administrator.








Change of use





12



A person who is required to pay tax to the authority under section 169.03 (2) or
(4)

[parking tax if change in use]

of the Act, must, on or before the
date that is 23 days after the last day of the month in which the portion of the parking
right was used as described in section 169.03 (1) (b) or (3) (b) of the Act,






(a)


report the change in the use of the portion of the parking right in writing to
the administrator in a form and manner satisfactory to the administrator,






(b)


provide any information or records required by the administrator, and






(c)


pay to the authority the tax payable under section 169.03 (2) or (4) of the
Act.








Remittance or payment of tax





13



A remittance or payment to the administrator must be made






(a)


by cheque,






(b)


by bank, express or postal money order,






(c)


by cash, or






(d)


by an electronic method satisfactory to the administrator.








Receipt of returns, remittances or payments





14



(1)


A return, remittance or payment may be delivered to the administrator by Canada
Post, by courier, by an electronic method satisfactory to the administrator, or
personally by the person required to deliver the return, remittance or payment or an
agent of the person.






(2)


A return, remittance or payment delivered in accordance with subsection
(1) is deemed to be received on the day of receipt by the
administrator.






(3)


A remittance may be delivered to the administrator by remittance to a bank or
other financial institution.






(4)


A remittance delivered in accordance with subsection (3) is deemed to be
received on the day of receipt by the bank or financial institution.








Records





15



(1)


A vendor must keep records sufficient to furnish the administrator with the
necessary particulars of






(a)


non-taxable sales of parking rights, including discounts, refunds, and sales
for resale and other exemptions,






(b)


taxable sales of parking rights,






(c)


the amount of tax collected,






(d)


the amount of any allowance authorized under section 169.25

[allowance for collection and remittance of tax]

of the Act,
and






(e)


the disposition of tax.






(2)


All entries concerning the tax in the records referred to in subsection
(1) must be separate and distinguishable from other entries in those
records.






(3)


If a vendor fails or refuses to keep records referred to in subsection (1) that
are adequate for the purposes under Part 7.1 of the Act, the vendor must keep the records
as required by the administrator.








Retention of records





16



(1)


The records required to be kept under section 15 must be kept by the
vendor at the vendor's principal office or principal place of business in British
Columbia for a period of 5 years from the dates the records are created.






(2)


If a vendor who is required to retain records under subsection
(1) makes a written application to the administrator for permission to
destroy a record, the administrator may authorize the requested destruction prior to the
expiry of the period described in subsection (1).






(3)


Despite any other provision of this section, if a record might be necessary for
the purposes of an appeal under section 169.39

[appeal to board]

or section 169.4

[appeal to court]

of the Act, the vendor required to keep the
records must retain the record after the expiry of the period described in subsection
(1) and until the appeals have been exhausted.








Information to purchaser





17



If a vendor issues a receipt, invoice or other similar document in respect of a
taxable sale of a parking right, the vendor must, as applicable,






(a)


set out as a separate item in the document the amount of the tax payable,
or






(b)


indicate in the document that the purchase price includes the tax.








Documentation where purchase is for resale





18



If a vendor sells a parking right to a person and there is no tax payable in
respect of the sale by reason of section 169.08

[exemption for purchases for resale]

of the Act, the vendor must
record on the receipt, invoice or other similar document issued to the person acquiring
the parking right the number of the person's registration certificate.





Part 5 — Tax Collection and Interest







Demand notice





19



If, at any time, a person has not remitted or paid tax that the person has
collected or that is due from the person under Part 7.1 of the Act, the administrator
may make a written demand that the tax be remitted or paid, and the person must
immediately remit or pay the tax collected or the tax due, as the case may be, to the
administrator within the time specified in the notice.








Form prescribed





20



The form set out in the Schedule is prescribed for the purposes of section 169.46 (2)
(a)

[certificate of lien]

of the Act.








Tax uncollectable due to bad debts





21



(1)


The amount of a refund to which a collector is entitled under section 169.13

[deduction for bad debts]

of the Act in respect of a sale of a
parking right referred to in that section must be calculated in accordance with the
following formula:









WO






R = TR x











TAP







where




R is the amount of the refund to which the collector is entitled in respect of
the sale;


TR is the tax remitted on the sale;


WO is the amount of money remaining unpaid on the sale that was written off as
unrealizable or uncollectable, not including interest charges;


TAP is the total amount payable on the sale including all applicable taxes, but
not including interest charges.






(2)


Under section
169.13 (3) of the Act, a collector may deduct from the taxes that the
collector would otherwise be required to remit the amount of a refund referred to in
subsection (1) by the collector submitting with the return






(a)


the name and address of the purchaser whose account has been written
off,






(b)


the amount of the sale and the tax involved,






(c)


the date of the sale, and






(d)


a statement that






(i)


the amount of tax being deducted has been written off as unrealizable or
uncollectable,






(ii)


the collector is of the opinion that the amount of tax being deducted is
unrealizable or uncollectable, and






(iii)


the collector will, on recovering any part of the amount written off for
which a refund is obtained or a deduction is taken under this subsection, remit to
the administrator, on or before the date that is 23 days after the last day of the
month in which the recovery is made, the proportion of the refund or deduction that
the amount recovered bears to the amount written off.






(3)


A collector that, under section 169.13 of the Act, obtains a refund or deducts
the amount of the refund from the amount of taxes required to be remitted must retain
all records of the sale in relation to which the tax was imposed until their disposal is
authorized by the administrator.






(4)


If a collector intends to apply for a refund under section 169.13 of the Act, or deduct
that refund from the amount of the taxes required to be remitted, the collector must do
so as soon as possible after writing off the collection of the tax.








Calculation of interest





22



Interest payable under Part 7.1 of the Act must be






(a)


compounded monthly, and






(b)


calculated on the number of days since the last compounding of interest, or if
no compounding has yet occurred, from the date that interest is payable under Part 7.1 of the
Act.








Application of Interest on Overdue Accounts Payable
Regulation





23



(1)


In this section,

"Regulation"

means the Interest on Overdue
Accounts Payable Regulation, B.C. Reg. 215/83.






(2)


Sections 1 (1) (b) and (2), 4 (1), (2) and (3), 5 and 7 of the Regulation apply
to a refund owed by the authority to a person under Part 7.1 of the Act, as if the
authority were the government.






(3)


For the purposes of subsection (2) of this section, the rate of interest payable
for section 4 (1) or (2) of the Regulation is the rate of interest set out in section 6 (1) (b)
of the Regulation.





Part 6 — Offences







Levels of fines for contravention of specific sections





24



A person who contravenes section 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19 commits an offence and is
liable






(a)


on a first conviction, to a fine of not less than $200 and not more than $500,
and






(b)


on a subsequent conviction for the contravention of the same or another
provision of this regulation, to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than
$2 000.





Schedule


LOGO TransLink     South Coast British Columbia Transportation
Authority


IN THE MATTER OF THE

SOUTH COAST BRITISH COLUMBIA TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY ACT

, S.B.C. 1998, CHAPTER 30, SECTION 169.46, AND IN THE MATTER OF
THE INTEREST


OF
....................................................................................................................................................

[name]



IN
.................................................................................................................................................................


........................................................................................

[P.I.D. number and full legal description of land]




CERTIFICATE OF LIEN



I certify that:


1   ...............................................................................................................................

[debtor name]



............................................................................................................................

[debtor address]



is


(a) required to pay or remit an amount under Part 7.1 of the

South Coast British
Columbia Transportation Authority Act

but has not paid or remitted
that amount, or


(b) an associated corporation or related individual, as defined in section 169.46 of the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority
Act

, of a person who is required to pay or remit an amount under
Part 7.1 of
the

South Coast British Columbia Transportation Authority Act

and has not paid or remitted that amount.


2   The amount remaining unpaid as of the date of this certificate is
$.....................


AND TAKE NOTICE that on registration of this certificate in the land title
office, the amount of the indebtedness to the South Coast British Columbia Transportation
Authority is a lien against the land described above.


Dated at ........................................, British Columbia, on
..................................

[date]



......................................................................

Administrator,


Part 7.1

,

South Coast British Columbia

Transportation Authority
Act



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


South Coast            British Columbia Transportation Authority Act


, S.B.C. 1998, c. 30,
sections 46 and
169.6]



