






B.C. Reg. 443/2003


O.C. 1134/2003



Deposited November 28, 2003


effective December 1, 2003







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Public Service Act




Review of Staffing Decisions Regulation








Definition





1



In this regulation,

"Act"

means the


Public Service Act


.








Request for feedback





2



(1)


An unsuccessful applicant for an appointment to the public service who wishes to make a request for an explanation to the individual responsible for the appointment under section 17 of the Act must do so within five days of receiving notice of the staffing decision.






(2)


The request may be made orally, either in person or by telephone, or in writing.






(3)


A written request must be given to the individual responsible or sent to that individual by courier or electronic transmission.








Request for an inquiry





3



(1)


An employee who wishes to request an inquiry under section 18 of the Act must make a written request to the deputy minister within five days of receiving an explanation under section 17 of the Act.






(2)


The written request must be given to the deputy minister or sent to the deputy minister by courier or electronic transmission.








Request for a review





4



(1)


An employee who wishes to make a written request for a review under section 19 of the Act must do so within five days of receiving the results of the inquiry under section 18 of the Act.






(2)


The written request must be given to the merit commissioner or sent to the commissioner by courier or electronic transmission.








Remedy of irregularities





5



A review under section 19 of the Act is not invalid because of a defect in form, a technical irregularity or an error of procedure that does not result in a denial of natural justice, and the merit commissioner may relieve against those defects, irregularities or errors of procedure on just and reasonable terms.



[Provisions of the


Public Service Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 385, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 25]



