






B.C. Reg. 413/2008


M304/2008



Deposited December 12, 2008


effective December 15, 2008, sections 1, 2 and 7

sections 3 to 6 effective April 1,    2010







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.





Link to Point in Time





Health Professions Act




Speech and Hearing Health

Professionals Regulation



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 74/2012, October 1, 2012]









Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Health Professions              Act


;



"audiologist"

means a registrant who is authorized under the bylaws to
practise audiology;



"audiology"

means the health profession in which a person provides, for
the purposes of promoting and maintaining communicative, auditory and vestibular health,
the services of assessment, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention of






(a)


auditory and related communication disorders and conditions, and






(b)


peripheral and central auditory system dysfunction and related peripheral and
central vestibular system dysfunction;



"cerumen"

means the wax-like substance that occurs naturally as a
secretion of sebaceous and ceruminous glands in the cartilaginous portion of the ear
canal;



"cerumen management"

means services related to the removal of cerumen for
the purpose of audiological procedures that require a clear external ear canal to
satisfactorily complete the procedure;



"dispense"

means to select, prepare, alter, sell or offer to
sell;



"fit"

means to adapt or verify, using sound field testing, real ear
measurements or other methods;



"hearing instrument"

means an appliance or a device designed or offered
for a hearing condition,






(a)


including any ear molds, boots or other acoustic couplers and any parts or
accessories for the appliance or device intended to affect the sound pressure level at
the eardrum, and






(b)


excluding direct audio input accessories, batteries and any accessories that are
attachable to the appliance or device by the wearer and not intended to affect the sound
pressure level at the eardrum;



"hearing instrument dispensing"

means the health profession in which a
person provides the services of






(a)


assessment of hearing using an audiometer, or other methods, to identify hearing
loss, and






(b)


recommending, selecting, preparing, altering, adapting, verifying, selling and
offering to sell hearing instruments;



"hearing instrument practitioner"

means a registrant who is authorized
under the bylaws to practise hearing instrument dispensing;



"prescribe"

means to issue an authorization to dispense for use by a
named individual;



"sell"

means to enter into a transfer of title, conditional sale
contract, lease, hire purchase or any other contract where a person disposes of, and any
other person acquires, a hearing instrument, excluding a wholesale transaction;



"speech-language pathologist"

means a registrant who is authorized under
the bylaws to practice speech-language pathology;



"speech-language pathology"

means the health profession in which a person
provides, for the purposes of promoting and maintaining communicative health, the services
of assessment, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention of






(a)


speech, language and related communication disorders and conditions,
and






(b)


vocal tract dysfunction, including related feeding and swallowing
disorders;



"wearable hearing instrument"

means a hearing instrument wearable on the
head or body.








College name





2



The name "College of Speech and Hearing Health Professionals of British Columbia" is
the name of the college established under section 15 (1) of the Act for audiology, hearing
instrument dispensing and speech-language pathology.








Reserved titles





3



(1)


The title "audiologist" is reserved for exclusive use by audiologists.






(2)


The title "hearing instrument practitioner" is reserved for exclusive use by
hearing instrument practitioners.






(3)


The titles "speech-language pathologist" and "speech therapist" are reserved for
exclusive use by speech-language pathologists.








Scope of practice





4



(1)


An audiologist may practise audiology.






(2)


A hearing instrument practitioner may practise hearing instrument
dispensing.






(3)


A speech-language pathologist may practise speech-language pathology.








Restricted activities





5



(1)


An audiologist in the course of practising audiology may do any of the
following:






(a)


make a diagnosis identifying, as the anatomical cause of behavioural,
psychological or language-related signs or symptoms of an individual, an auditory or
related communication disorder;






(b)


put an instrument or a device or finger into the external ear canal, up to the
eardrum;






(c)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum and for the purposes of
cerumen management or tympanometry, air that is under pressure;






(d)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum and for the purposes of
cerumen management or assessment of vestibular system dysfunction, water that is under
pressure;






(e)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, a substance that
subsequently solidifies;






(f)


prescribe a wearable hearing instrument;






(g)


fit a wearable hearing instrument.






(2)


A hearing instrument practitioner in the course of practising hearing instrument
dispensing may do any of the following:






(a)


put an instrument or a device or finger into the external ear canal, up to the
eardrum;






(b)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum and for the purposes of
cerumen management or tympanometry, air that is under pressure;






(c)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum and for the purpose of
cerumen management, water that is under pressure;






(d)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum, a substance that
subsequently solidifies;






(e)


prescribe a wearable hearing instrument;






(f)


dispense or fit a wearable hearing instrument.






(3)


A speech-language pathologist in the course of practising speech-language
pathology may do any of the following:






(a)


make a diagnosis identifying, as the anatomical cause of behavioural,
psychological or language-related signs or symptoms of an individual, a speech, language
or related communication disorder;






(b)


put an instrument or a device or finger into the external ear canal, up to the
eardrum, for the purpose of tympanometry;






(c)


put an instrument or a device beyond the point in the nasal passages where they
normally narrow, for the purposes of assessing and managing communication and swallowing
disorders;






(d)


put an instrument or a device or finger beyond the pharynx, for the purposes of
assessing and managing voice disorders and voice restoration;






(e)


put an instrument or a device into an artificial opening in the body, for the
purposes of assessing and managing voice disorders and voice restoration;






(f)


put into the external ear canal, up to the eardrum and for the purpose of
tympanometry, air that is under pressure;






(g)


administer topically a drug that






(i)


is specified in Schedule I or Schedule II of the Drug Schedules Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 9/98, and






(ii)


is an anaesthetic,


for the purposes of performing a restricted activity set out in paragraphs (c) to
(e).






(4)


Only a hearing instrument practitioner or a person formerly exempted from the
application of the


Hearing Aid Act


may provide a service          of hearing instrument dispensing as set out in this regulation if, on the day before this
section comes into force, the provision of the same service by anyone other than a person
authorized under or exempted from the application of the


Hearing Aid              Act


was prohibited.


[am. B.C. Reg. 94/2010, Sch. s. 1.]








Limits or conditions on services and restricted
activities





6



(1)


An audiologist or a hearing instrument practitioner may provide cerumen management
that includes the performance of a restricted activity set out in section 5 (1) (b) to
(d) or (2)
(a) to (c) only if the audiologist or hearing instrument practitioner has
successfully completed a certification program established, required or approved under the
bylaws to ensure audiologists and hearing instrument practitioners are qualified and
competent to provide cerumen management and perform the restricted activity.






(2)


An audiologist may provide assessment of vestibular system dysfunction that
includes the performance of the restricted activity set out in section 5 (1)
(d) only if the audiologist has successfully completed a certification
program established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure registrants are
qualified and competent to provide assessment of vestibular system dysfunction and perform
the restricted activity.






(3)


A hearing instrument practitioner who is not also an audiologist may, in respect
of an individual who has not attained the age of 16 years, provide a service that includes
the performance of a restricted activity set out in section 5 (2) (e) or (f) only if the
hearing instrument practitioner has successfully completed a certification program
established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure hearing instrument
practitioners are qualified and competent to provide the service and perform the
restricted activity.






(4)


A speech-language pathologist may provide a service that includes the performance
of a restricted activity set out in section 5 (3) (c) to (e) or (g) only if the
speech-language pathologist has successfully completed a certification program
established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure speech-language pathologists
are qualified and competent to provide the service and perform the restricted
activity.


[am. B.C. Regs. 94/2010, Sch. s. 2; 74/2012, s. 2.]








Patient relations program





7



The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the
Act.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Health          Professions Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, section 12
(2)]



