







B.C. Reg. 92/59

O.C. 1777/42






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Plant Protection Act


Bacterial Ring Rot Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Regulation title




1


This regulation may be cited as the "Bacterial Ring Rot Regulation".






Definitions




2


In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:


"Act"
means the

Plant Protection Act

;



"imported potatoes"

means all potatoes grown outside the Province;


"importer"
includes the person to whom potatoes grown outside the Province are
consigned and any person who exercises acts of ownership over potatoes
imported into the Province;


"inspector"
means an inspector appointed under the Act.

[am. B.C. Reg. 112/2014, App. s. 14 (a).]





Potatoes must be inspected




3


No person shall sell or have in the person's possession for sale
within the Province any imported potatoes unless such potatoes have
been inspected and released by an inspector as being apparently free
from bacterial ring rot.


[am. B.C. Regs. 112/2014, App. s. 14 (b); 76/2022, s. 4.]






Inspection may be done anywhere




4


Any inspector may inspect any imported potatoes in transit or at point
of destination.






Importer must notify inspector




5


Every importer of potatoes shall notify the inspector in charge of
inspection in any area as to the time of arrival at point of
destination of any imported potatoes and the place where inspection
may be made.






Importer must make potatoes accessible for inspection




6


Every importer shall, after having notified the inspector as to the
arrival of potatoes at point of destination, make such potatoes
accessible for inspection and shall so place them as to disclose their
quality and condition.






Infected potatoes to be detained




7


Where potatoes are found which, in the opinion of the inspector, are
infected with bacterial ring rot, the inspector shall place such
potatoes under detention.






No movement or sale of detained potatoes




8


Any inspector detaining under section 7 any lot of potatoes may
at any time and at any place attach thereto a numbered detention tag
bearing the legend "Bacterial Ring Rot Regulation, under detention,"
and signed with the inspector's name. Thenceforth no person shall sell
or offer for sale, move, allow or cause to be moved any such potatoes
or remove such detention tag without the written authority of an
inspector.






Detained potatoes to be examined by plant pathologist




9


The inspector shall, as soon as possible after placing such detention
tag on the potatoes, notify the importer and shall cause the said
potatoes to be examined by a plant pathologist selected by the
minister.






Disposal of infected potatoes




10


When the findings of the plant pathologist indicate that potatoes are
infected with bacterial ring rot the inspector shall so advise the
importer, and thereupon the importer shall cause such potatoes to be
moved to a manufacturing plant or otherwise disposed of as the
inspector may direct, and the inspector may give directions to the
importer, dealer or ultimate consignee as to the treatment of the
containers and equipment used in the handling and transporting of the
potatoes.






Offence




11


Any person who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
regulation or who fails to comply with any direction of the inspector
made pursuant to section 8 shall be guilty of an offence and
liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $250.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Plant Protection Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 365, s. 8.]



