






B.C. Reg. 414/2008


M307/2008



Deposited December 12, 2008


effective March 1, 2009







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024


for amendments effective after March 5, 2024.




Health Professions Act




Chiropractors Regulation










Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Health Professions Act


;



"chiropractic"

means the health profession in which a person provides, for the purposes of promotion, maintenance and restoration of health, the services of






(a)


assessment of the spine or other joints of the body and the associated tissue, and the nervous system,






(b)


treatment of nervous system, muscular and skeletal diseases, disorders and conditions through manipulation or adjustment of the spine or other joints of the body by hand or by using devices directly related to the manipulation or adjustment, and






(c)


advice and counseling on matters related to the condition of the spine or other joints of the body and the associated tissue, the nervous system and the overall health of the individual;



"college"

means the College of Chiropractors of British Columbia continued under section 15.1 of the Act.








Reserved titles





2



(1)


The titles "chiropractor" and "doctor" are reserved for exclusive use by registrants.






(2)


This section does not prohibit a person from using






(a)


the title "doctor" in a manner authorized by another enactment that regulates a health profession, or






(b)


an academic or educational designation that the person is entitled to use.








Scope of practice





3



A registrant may practise chiropractic.








Restricted activities





4



(1)


A registrant in the course of practising chiropractic may do any of the following:






(a)


make a diagnosis identifying, as the cause of signs or symptoms of an individual, a disease, disorder or condition of the spine or other joints of the body and the associated tissue, and the nervous system;






(b)


move a joint of the spine beyond the limits the body can voluntarily achieve but within the anatomical range of motion using a high velocity, low amplitude thrust;






(c)


put an instrument, a device or a finger into the external ear canal for the purpose of assessing the ear and auditory systems;






(d)


put a finger beyond the anal verge for the purpose of manipulating the coccyx;






(e)


apply X-rays for diagnostic or imaging purposes, excluding X-rays for the purpose of computerized axial tomography;






(f)


issue an instruction or authorization for another person to apply, to a named individual,






(i)


electromagnetism for the purpose of magnetic resonance imaging, or






(ii)


X-rays for diagnostic or imaging purposes, including X-rays for the purpose of computerized axial tomography.






(2)


Only a registrant may provide a service of chiropractic as set out in this regulation if, on the day before this section comes into force, the provision of the same service by anyone other than a person authorized under the


Chiropractors Act


was prohibited.








Patient relations program





5



The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.








Health profession corporations





6



Part 4 of the Act applies to chiropractic.



[Provisions of the


Health Professions Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, relevant to the enactment of this regulation: section 12 (2)]



