






B.C. Reg. 33/2022


O.C. 80/2022



Deposited February 17, 2022







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)





Financial Institutions Act




Credit Union Transaction Regulation








Definition





1



In this regulation,

"Act"

means the


Financial Institutions Act


.








Transactions requiring superintendent's consent





2



For the purposes of section 139.1 (1) of the Act, the following types of transactions are prescribed:






(a)


a transaction in which a credit union assumes the functions of a central credit union for all credit unions in another jurisdiction;






(b)


a transaction, or the last transaction in a series of transactions over the previous 12 months, in which Central 1 Credit Union assumes the functions of a central credit union for one or more credit unions in another jurisdiction whose assets are equivalent to 50% or more of Central 1 Credit Union's assets, as reported in its most recent consolidated financial statements;






(c)


an acquisition by a credit union of a subsidiary whose fair market value is equivalent to 10% or more of the credit union's assets, as reported in its most recent consolidated financial statements.








Prescribed criteria for superintendent's consent





3



For the purposes of section 139.1 (2) of the Act, the following criteria are prescribed:






(a)


whether the transaction poses an undue risk to the credit union that is seeking the superintendent's consent to enter into the transaction or to the credit union system;






(b)


the degree of risk of a claim against the fund.








Application form





4



For each transaction within a type of transaction prescribed by section 2, the superintendent may establish the form that a credit union must use to apply for the superintendent's consent to the transaction.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Financial Institutions Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, s. 289.]



