






B.C. Reg. 172/2009


O.C. 354/2009



Deposited July 17, 2009







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time





E-Health (Personal Health Information Access

and Protection of Privacy) Act




Disclosure Directive Regulation



[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]









Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of Privacy) Act


;



"adult"

means a person who is at least 19 years of age;



"guardian"

means a guardian as defined in the


Family Law Act


;



"minor"

means a person who is under 19 years of age;



"non-photo BC services card"

means a non-photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification Card Regulation, B.C. Reg. 4/2013;



"photo BC services card"

means a photo BC services card within the meaning of the Identification Card Regulation or a driver's licence issued under section 25 (1.3) of the


Motor Vehicle Act


that indicates the holder is a beneficiary under the


Medicare Protection Act


;



"photocopy"

, in relation to a non-photo BC services card and a photo BC services card, means a photocopy of both the front and back of the card;



"satisfactory identification"

means identification satisfactory to the minister, issued by the government of Canada or by a provincial or territorial government.


[am. B.C. Regs. 69/2013, Sch. s. 1; 74/2015, Sch. 2, s. 1.]








Persons who may make or revoke disclosure directives





2



(1)


An adult may make or revoke a disclosure directive on behalf of the adult or on behalf of another person in respect of whom the adult has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions.






(2)


Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a minor's guardian may make or revoke a disclosure directive on behalf of the minor.






(3)


A minor who, in the opinion of the minister, understands the nature and consequences of making a disclosure directive may make or revoke a disclosure directive on the minor's own behalf.






(4)


A disclosure directive made by a guardian on behalf of a minor ceases to be effective on the minor's 19th birthday.


[am. B.C. Regs. 74/2015, Sch. 2, s. 2; 76/2022, ss. 4 and 11.]








Conditions respecting making and revoking disclosure directives





3



In addition to the requirements in section 9 of the Act, a disclosure directive or the revocation of a disclosure directive must






(a)


be in a form and contain information satisfactory to the minister,






(b)


be signed by the person making or revoking the directive, and






(c)


be accompanied by the following:






(i)


in the case of a directive made or revoked on the person's own behalf, a photocopy of






(A)


the person's photo BC services card, or






(B)


the person's British Columbia CareCard or non-photo BC services card, as well as other satisfactory identification for the person;






(ii)


in the case of a directive made or revoked by a guardian on behalf of a minor, a photocopy of






(A)


the British Columbia CareCard, non-photo BC services card or photo BC services card of the minor for whom the directive is made or revoked,






(B)


satisfactory identification for the guardian making or revoking the directive, and






(C)


the minor's birth certificate;






(iii)


in the case of a directive made or revoked by a person on behalf of another adult, a photocopy of the following:






(A)


either the photo BC services card of the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked, or that person's British Columbia CareCard or non-photo BC services card and other satisfactory identification for that person;






(B)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 74/2015, Sch. 2, s. 4.]






(C)


satisfactory identification for the person making or revoking the directive;






(D)


documentation satisfactory to the minister providing evidence that the person making or revoking the directive has authority under the common law or an enactment to make personal and health care decisions on behalf of the person on whose behalf the directive is made or revoked.


[am. B.C. Regs. 69/2013, Sch. s. 2; 74/2015, Sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4.]








Forwarding disclosure directives and revocations to minister





4



A disclosure directive or the revocation of a disclosure directive must be forwarded to the minister in a manner specified by the minister.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


E-Health (Personal Health Information Access and Protection of Privacy) Act


, S.B.C. 2008, c. 38, s. 26.]



