







B.C. Reg. 328/90

O.C. 1352/90


Deposited September 7, 1990

effective September 15, 1990





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Financial Institutions Act


Insurance Licensing Exemptions Regulation

[Last amended March 11, 2021 by B.C. Reg. 64/2021]





Interpretation




1

(1)


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

Financial Institutions Act

;



"Catholic Mutual Canada"

means Catholic Mutual Canada incorporated in Ontario with
incorporation number 10043541;



"Catholic Mutual Relief Society of America"

means the Catholic Mutual Relief Society of America incorporated in
Nebraska with the incorporation number 0198315;



"credit insurance"

has the same meaning as "credit protection insurance" in section 1 (1)
of the Classes of Insurance Regulation, except that it does not
include insurance that is included in or incidental to another class
of insurance defined in section 1 (1) of that regulation;



"funeral director"

means a funeral director as defined in the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

;



"funeral provider"

means a funeral provider as defined in the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

;



"funeral services insurance"

means insurance in respect of a "preneed cemetery or funeral services
contract" as defined in the

Cremation, Interment and Funeral Services Act

, if the total amount payable by the insurer under the contract is $15
000 or less;



"motor vehicle dealer"

means a person who is registered as a motor vehicle dealer under the

Motor Dealer Act

;



"travel insurance"

means insurance




(a)

in respect of a trip by a person away from the place where the person
ordinarily resides, without any individual assessment of risk, against




(i)

loss of, or damage to, personal property that occurs while on a trip,




(ii)

loss that is caused by the delayed arrival of personal baggage while
on the trip, or




(iii)

loss that is incurred from the rental of a motor vehicle while on the
trip, or




(b)

in respect of a trip by a person away from the place where the person
ordinarily resides,




(i)

against expenses incurred while on the trip that result from an
illness or disability of the person that occurs on the trip,




(ii)

against expenses incurred while on the trip that result from bodily
injury to, or the death of, the person caused by an accident while on
the trip,




(iii)

whereby the insurer undertakes to pay one or more sums of money in the
event of an illness or the disability of the person that occurs on the
trip, or of bodily injury to or the death of, the person that is
caused by an accident on the trip,




(iv)

against expenses incurred by the person for dental care necessitated
by an accident while on the trip, or




(v)

in the event that the person dies while on the trip, against expenses
incurred for the return of that person's remains to the place where
the person was ordinarily resident before death, or travel expenses
for a person to go and pick up that person's remains, or




(c)

against loss that results from the cancellation or interruption of the
trip;


"vehicle"
has the same meaning as in the

Insurance (Vehicle) Act

.




(2)

The definitions in section 168 of the Act apply for the purposes of
this regulation.


[am. B.C. Regs. 10/94; 137/98; 571/2004, ss. 1 and 2; 149/2007, s. 4;
379/2008, Sch. 2, s. 1; 204/2011, Sch. B, ss. 1 and 2.]






Exemption from section 171 (2) of the Act




2

(1)


Section 171 (2) of the Act does not apply




(a)

to a person whose only activity as an insurance agent or insurance
salesperson is in connection with product warranty insurance sold
incidentally to the sale, by that person or that person's employer, of
the product,




(b)

to a person whose only activity as an insurance agent or insurance
salesperson is in connection with forgery insurance sold incidentally
to the sale, maintenance or repair, by that person or that person's
employer, of chequewriter machines,




(b.1)

to




(i)

a credit union, extraprovincial credit union, insurance company,
extraprovincial insurance corporation, trust company, extraprovincial
trust corporation or bank or the officers or employees of any of them,
or




(ii)

a service provider under contract to a credit union, extraprovincial
credit union, insurance company, extraprovincial insurance
corporation, trust company, extraprovincial trust corporation or bank


while acting as insurance agent in connection with credit insurance,
incidental to the ordinary business of the credit union,
extraprovincial credit union, insurance company, extraprovincial
insurance corporation, trust company, extraprovincial trust
corporation or bank,




(c)

subject to subsection (2) (a), and with the exception of an employee
of a mortgage broker registered under the

Mortgage Brokers Act

, to a person whose only activity as an insurance agent or insurance
salesperson is in connection with credit insurance sold incidentally
to the granting or arranging of credit by that person or that person's
employer,




(d)

to the Real Estate Errors and Omissions Insurance Corporation,




(e)

to an employee of the Real Estate Errors and Omissions Insurance
Corporation whose only activity as an insurance agent or insurance
sales person is in the course of that employment,




(f)

to an employee of a licensed general insurance agent who




(i)

acts as an insurance salesperson only in respect of vehicle insurance
issued by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia,




(ii)

is under the direct supervision of a licensed general insurance agent
who signs or initials all transactions completed by the employee,




(iii)

has not accumulated more than 6 months experience in the aggregate
selling insurance as an employee of a licensed general insurance
agent,




(iv)

has successfully completed the Autoplan Basics for Brokers Program
offered by the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, and




(v)

has been registered by the licensed general insurance agent with the
Insurance Council,




(g)

to a motor vehicle dealer or an employee or commissioned sales
representative of a motor vehicle dealer whose only activity as an
insurance agent or insurance salesperson is in connection with vehicle
warranty insurance sold incidentally to the ordinary business of the
motor vehicle dealer as such,




(h)

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 571/2004, s. 4 (d).]




(i)

to an employee or a commissioned sales representative of a person
licensed as a travel agent or travel wholesaler under the

Business Practices and Consumer Protection Act

if




(i)

the travel agent or travel wholesaler holds a licence in respect of
travel insurance issued under the rules made by the council,




(ii)

the employee or commissioned sales representative has passed a course
specified by the rules of the council for travel agents and travel
wholesalers,




(iii)

the only activity of the employee or commissioned sales representative
as an insurance agent or insurance salesperson is in connection with
travel insurance sold incidentally to the ordinary business of the
travel agent or travel wholesaler, and




(iv)

the employee or commissioned sales representative has completed a
minimum of 2 hours of continuing education as specified by the
council,




(j)

to a government employee or agent in the administration of any program
established under the

Insurance for Crops Act

or the

Farm Income Insurance Act

,




(k)

to a person who does not act for compensation or hope or promise of
it,




(l)

to a person who acts only for the purpose of collecting and receiving
premiums for insurance,




(m)

to a person who acts on behalf of a mutual fire insurance company,




(n)

to a person who acts on behalf of a society that makes contracts of
life insurance, accident insurance or sickness insurance,




(o)

to a person who is an insurer's manager or branch manager who is in
charge of the insurer's head office or branch office in British
Columbia and is paid a salary and not by commissions,




(p)

to a person who is an employee of an insurer or insurance agent if the
employee does not solicit insurance, is paid a salary by the insurer
or insurance agent and does mainly clerical work,




(q)

to a person who is employed in an office of a transportation company
to sell its tickets or carry on business as a ticket agent of the
company in respect of accident insurance against accidents to persons
only while travelling, or in respect of inland transportation
insurance or marine insurance against loss of or damage to baggage of
persons only while travelling, if the company holds a licence issued
under rules made by the council in respect of those classes of
insurance,




(r)

to a person, who by a certificate given to the council by




(i)

a reciprocal exchange that has a permit under section 187, or




(ii)

a company registered under the

Insurance (Captive Company) Act

,


is certified as being a full time salaried employee of the exchange or
company who does not act as an insurance agent or insurance
salesperson in any other capacity and who does not receive
commissions,




(s)

to Catholic Mutual Canada if it acts in relation to insurance provided
by the Catholic Mutual Relief Society of America, or




(t)

to a salaried employee of Catholic Mutual Canada who acts




(i)

as an insurance agent or insurance salesperson only in the course of
employment with Catholic Mutual Canada, and




(ii)

in relation to insurance provided by the Catholic Mutual Relief
Society of America.




(2)

Section 171 (2) does not apply to




(a)

a mortgage broker or submortgage broker registered under the

Mortgage Brokers Act

whose only activity as an insurance agent or insurance salesperson is
in connection with credit insurance sold incidentally to the granting
or arranging of credit by that mortgage broker or submortgage broker
or the employer of the submortgage broker, on condition that the
mortgage broker or submortgage broker disclose to the person to whom
the mortgage broker or submortgage broker sells credit insurance




(i)

that there is no obligation to buy the credit insurance,




(ii)

that he or she is not a licensed insurance agent or salesperson and
that the person may wish to seek advice from a licensed insurance
agent or salesperson,




(iii)

whether it is a policy of creditor's group insurance, as defined in
Parts 3 and 4 of the

Insurance Act

, and, if so, who the policy holder is, and




(iv)

the basic terms and conditions of the policy, including how to make a
claim, or




(b)

a funeral director or funeral provider or an employee of either of
them, whose only activity as an insurance agent is in connection with
funeral services insurance sold incidentally in the ordinary course of
business of the funeral director or funeral provider, on condition
that




(i)

none of them be named the beneficiary under the contract of funeral
services insurance, and




(ii)

the funeral director or funeral provider or employee of either of them
disclose to the person to whom the funeral director, funeral provider
or employee sells funeral services insurance that




(A)

the funeral director, funeral provider or employee is not a licensed
insurance agent or salesperson and that the person may wish to seek
advice from a licensed insurance agent or salesperson, and




(B)

there is no obligation to buy the funeral services insurance.


[am. B.C. Regs. 179/92, s. 1; 483/92; 108/93; 398/95, s. 1; 571/2004,
s. 4; 149/2007, s. 5; 379/2008, Sch. 2, s. 2; 204/2011, Sch. B, s. 2;
22/2013, App. 4, s. 1; 15/2017; 64/2021, s. 2.]






Exemption from section 170 of the Act




2.1


Section 170 of the Act does not apply to a travel agent or travel
wholesaler who holds a license in respect of travel insurance.

[en. B.C. Reg. 571/2004, s. 3.]





Repealed




3–5


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 571/2004, s. 5.]






Exemption from section 180 (1) of the Act




6

(1)


Section 180 (1) of the Act does not apply to a person who




(a)

does not act for compensation or in hope or for the promise of it,




(b)

is employed as an expert by an insurance adjuster to make an appraisal
or adjustment in a special case,




(c)

is a solicitor or an employee of one in the solicitor's regular
practice of law,




(d)

is an insurance agent licensee acting on behalf of an insurer,




(e)

is the manager or branch manager in British Columbia of an insurer
authorized to conduct insurance business or is a salaried employee of
that insurer, and who in either case is acting for that insurer,




(f)

is a government employee or agent in the administration of any program
established under the

Insurance for Crops Act

or the

Farm Income Insurance Act

, or




(g)

is a salaried employee of Catholic Mutual Canada who acts




(i)

as an insurance adjuster or an employed insurance adjuster only in the
course of employment with Catholic Mutual Canada, and




(ii)

in relation to insurance provided by the Catholic Mutual Relief
Society of America.




(2)

Section 180 (1) of the Act does not apply to Catholic Mutual Canada in
relation to insurance provided by the Catholic Mutual Relief Society
of America.


[en. B.C. Reg. 571/2004, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 379/2008, Sch. 2, s. 3.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Financial Institutions Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 141, s. 289 (4).]



