







B.C. Reg. 189/92

M103/92


Deposited May 29, 1992






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Local Government Act


Islands Trust Special Voting Regulation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"member"
means a person appointed to the executive committee or the trust fund
board;


"secretary"
means the member delegated by the executive committee or trust fund
board to conduct a special vote;


"urgent"
means requiring immediate action as a result of unforeseen
circumstances.






Application




2


This regulation applies to the executive committee and the trust fund
board only.






Special vote may be taken on urgent matters




3


The voting by members, including voting on passing a resolution or on
reading or adopting a bylaw, may be conducted in accordance with
section 4 if the chairperson and one other member considers that




(a)

the issue to be voted on is urgent, and




(b)

calling a regular or special meeting to conduct the voting is
impractical.






How special voting is to be conducted




4

(1)


The secretary shall make all reasonable attempts in the circumstances
to ensure that each member entitled to vote has the opportunity to do
so.




(2)

Before a member votes, the secretary shall ensure that the resolution
or bylaw to be voted on is communicated to the member either




(a)

orally, including by telephone or other means of telecommunication, or




(b)

by delivery, including by delivery in writing, by facsimile
transmission or other means of electronic transmission or by delivery
in electronic form.




(3)

A member shall vote by informing the secretary, in any manner referred
to in subsection (2), of the member's approval or disapproval of the
resolution or bylaw and the secretary shall at that time record the
member's vote.




(4)

After ensuring that each member has an opportunity to vote as required
by subsection (1), the secretary shall inform the chairperson of the
results of the voting and the chairperson shall declare the vote to
have passed or failed in accordance with those results.




(5)

At the time of the chairperson's declaration under subsection (4), the
results of the voting shall have the same effect as if the voting had
been conducted at a regular meeting of the executive committee or
trust fund board and shall then be recorded by the secretary as a
minute of the executive committee or trust fund board.




(6)

If the secretary is absent, ill or otherwise disabled, the chairperson
may appoint another member to conduct voting under this section in
place of the secretary.



[Provisions of the
Local Government Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 323, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 793 (8) and (9)]



