






B.C. Reg. 5/2012


M3/2012



Deposited January 6, 2012


effective January 9, 2012







This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Teachers Act




Letters of Permission Regulation








Definitions





1



In this regulation:



"Act"

means the


Teachers Act


;



"applicant"

means a person applying for a letter of permission under section 35

[issuance of letter of permission]

of the Act;



"prospective employer"

means a board of education or an independent school authority that is considering becoming the employer of an applicant.








Letters of permission





2



(1)


An applicant must apply for a letter of permission in the form and manner required by the director of certification.






(2)


An application may be jointly completed by an applicant and a prospective employer.






(3)


The director of certification may request the following information from a prospective employer, whether or not the application is made by the applicant or jointly by the applicant and the prospective employer:






(a)


evidence that the prospective employer






(i)


made reasonable efforts to hire a certificate holder for the position for which the applicant is being considered, and






(ii)


was unable to recruit a certificate holder for the position;






(b)


one of the following:






(i)


confirmation that no certificate holder responded to an advertisement for the position for which the applicant is being considered;






(ii)


a rationale for not hiring a certificate holder who responded to an advertisement for the position for which the applicant is being considered;






(c)


a declaration by the prospective employer of the following:






(i)


the prospective employer has no knowledge of any facts that would make the applicant an inappropriate person to work with children;






(ii)


the prospective employer is satisfied that the applicant is of good character.






(4)


The director of certification must specify on the letter of permission the period of time for which the letter of permission is valid.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Teachers Act


, S.B.C. 2011, c. 19, section  81]



