






B.C. Reg. 240/2003


O.C. 630/2003



Deposited June 20, 2003


effective November 1, 2003







This consolidation is current to January 30, 2024.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2023


for amendments effective after January 30, 2024.





Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time





Forest Act




Manufactured Forest Products Regulation



[Last amended September 30, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 133/2020]







Manufactured wood products





1



(1)


For the purposes of section 127 (b) of the


Forest Act


, timber must be manufactured into the following wood products:






(a)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 133/2020, Sch. s. 1 (a).]






(b)


pulp, newsprint or paper;






(c)


veneer, plywood or other wood based panel products;






(d)


the following sawn wood products:






(i)


boards, shiplap, paneling, decking or flooring;






(ii)


rough or planed siding which may have natural or manufactured waney edges;






(iii)


moldings;






(iv)


engineered wood products;






(v)


for timber that is not from the Coast Area, rough or planed, square or rectangular timbers that are no greater than 0.10 m

2

in cross-section area and that meet the following wane requirements:






(A)


for lumber up to but not including 50 mm in thickness, wane is permitted to run the full length of the lumber, and the wane may be up to the full width and thickness of the lumber;






(B)


for lumber 50 mm and up to but not including 125 mm in thickness,






(I)


wane may be up to the full width and the full thickness of the lumber for a maximum of 1/4 the length of the lumber, or






(II)


wane for the full length of the lumber is permitted provided that the width of the wane does not exceed 3/4 the width of the lumber, and the thickness of the wane is less than the thickness of the lumber;






(C)


for lumber 125 mm in thickness or more,






(I)


uniform wane for the full length of the lumber is permitted provided that at least 2/3 of the width and at least 2/3 of the thickness of each face of the lumber is sawn, or






(II)


tapering wane not to exceed 2/3 the width at any point on the lumber and not to exceed 2/3 the thickness at any point on the lumber is permitted provided at least 66 2/3% of the surface area of each face is sawn;






(vi)


for timber that is from the Coast Area and that is of any species other than western redcedar or cypress, rough or planed, square or rectangular timbers that are no greater than 0.10 m

2

in cross-section area and that meet the wane requirements set out in subparagraph (v) (A) to (C);






(vii)


for timber that is from the Coast Area and that is of the species of western redcedar or cypress, rough or planed, square or rectangular timbers that are no greater than 0.10 m

2

in cross-section area and that are fully manufactured;






(e)


components for a religious or public structure or design ordered from a recognized Provincial manufacturer who has the specialized equipment and expertise to make those components;






(f)


shingles and fully manufactured shakes;






(g)


log home packages which have been fully manufactured and assembled within the Province, then disassembled for shipment from the Province;






(h)


log home components, five metres or longer "dowelled" or machine-shaped so their diameter is consistent throughout their length;






(i)


peeled utility poles manufactured in a recognized Provincial utility pole manufacturing plant having top diameters less than 28 cm and meeting the standards for utility poles of the Canadian Standards Association, American National Standards Institute, or other similar recognized Standards Association;






(j)


peeled fence posts that are round or split and that have a maximum diameter less than 21 cm and a length not exceeding 2.4 m;






(k)


sticks, stakes and firewood as defined in the current British Columbia Scaling Manual and having diameters less than 15 cm throughout their length;






(l)


boomsticks meeting industry standards and used in the containment and transport of logs already approved for export in boom form;






(m)


Christmas trees;






(n)


wood pellets.






(1.1)


In subsection (1) (d),

"Coast Area"

means the area that comprises






(a)


the South Coast Forest Region established by section 6 (1) of the Administrative Boundaries Regulation, and






(b)


the West Coast Forest Region established by section 8 (1) of the Administrative Boundaries Regulation.






(2)


For the purposes of subsection (1) (e), Provincial manufacturers may become recognized by applying to a regional forest office.


[am. B.C. Regs. 2/2020, Sch. 1; 133/2020, Sch.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Forest Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 157, s. 151.]



