







B.C. Reg. 713/74

W.C.B.


Filed October 21, 1974

effective January 1, 1975





This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Workers Compensation Act


Reports of Injuries Regulations

[Last amended April 6, 2020 by B.C. Reg. 279/2019]




Minor injuries — not reportable




1


Where none of the conditions listed in section 2 (a) to (h) is
present, an injury is a minor injury and not required to be reported
to the Board unless one of those conditions subsequently occurs.

[am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. E, s. 1.]





Reportable injuries




2


A reportable injury is an injury arising out of and in the course of a
worker's employment to which the compensation provisions of the

Workers Compensation Act

apply, or which is claimed by the worker concerned to have arisen out
of and in the course of such employment, and in respect of which any
one of the following conditions is present or subsequently occurs:




(a)

the worker loses consciousness following the injury;




(b)

the worker is transported or directed by a first aid attendant or
other representative of the employer to a hospital or other place of
medical treatment, or is recommended by such person to go to such
place;




(c)

the injury is one that obviously requires medical treatment;




(d)

the worker states an intention to seek medical treatment;




(e)

the worker has received medical treatment for the injury;




(f)

the worker is unable or claims to be unable by reason of the injury to
return to the worker's usual job function on any working day
subsequent to the day of injury;




(g)

the injury or accident resulted or is claimed to have resulted in the
breakage of an artificial member, eyeglasses, dentures or a hearing
aid;




(h)

the worker or the Board has requested that an employer's report be
sent to the Board.

[am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. E, ss. 1 and 2.]





Commencement of obligation to report




3


The obligation of the employer to report the injury to the Board
commences when a supervisor, first aid attendant or other
representative of the employer first becomes aware of any one of the
conditions listed in section 2, or when notification of any such
condition is received by mail or telephone at the local or head office
of the employer.

[am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. E, s. 1.]





Repealed




4


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. E, s. 3.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of these regulations:

Workers Compensation Act

, R.S.B.C. 2019, c. 1, s. 150.]



