







B.C. Reg. 198/2011

Treasury Board


Deposited November 23, 2011






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Budget Transparency and Accountability Act


Restricted Contributions Regulation





Definitions




1


In this regulation:


"land"
does not include buildings, houses or other depreciable improvements;



"restricted contribution"

means a contribution that is subject to a legislative or contractual
stipulation or restriction as to its use other than a contribution or
part of a contribution that is of, or for the purpose of acquiring,
land;



"taxpayer-supported organization"

means a government organization that is within the taxpayer-supported
government reporting entity.






Accounting policies and practices for restricted contributions




2

(1)


In its accounts, a taxpayer-supported organization must report any
restricted contribution received or receivable by it in accordance
with the accounting policies and practices described in this section.




(2)

A restricted contribution received or receivable by a
taxpayer-supported organization for the purpose of acquiring or
developing a depreciable tangible capital asset or in the form of a
depreciable tangible capital asset, in each case for use in providing
services, is to be reported as follows:




(a)

it is to be treated as a deferred contribution;




(b)

the associated liability is to be reduced, and the associated revenue
recognized, at the same rate that amortization is recognized in
respect of the asset;




(c)

the reduction of the liability and the recognition of the revenue are
to be accounted for in the fiscal period during which the asset is
used to provide services.




(3)

A restricted contribution received or receivable by a
taxpayer-supported organization other than as described in subsection
(2) is to be reported as follows:




(a)

it is to be treated as a deferred contribution;




(b)

the associated liability is to be reduced, and the associated revenue
recognized, in the fiscal period during which the stipulation or
restriction the contribution is subject to is met.




(4)

If the net book value of a depreciable tangible capital asset of a
taxpayer-supported organization related to a restricted contribution
is reduced for any reason other than amortization, the accounts of the
taxpayer-supported organization are to recognize a proportionate
reduction of the liability associated with the contribution and a
proportionate increase in the revenue associated with the
contribution.




(5)

This section applies to the reporting of restricted contributions,
whether they are received or receivable by a taxpayer-supported
organization before or after this regulation comes into effect.




(6)

This section operates despite any Act other than the

Budget Transparency and Accountability Act

.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Budget Transparency and Accountability Act

, S.B.C. 2000, c. 23, section 23]



