







B.C. Reg. 826/74

O.C. 3957/74


Filed December 18, 1974






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




Mineral Land Tax Act



Surrender of Interests

in Mineral Land Regulations


[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]




Surrender of mineral land not in production area




1


Mineral land which is not situated within a production area may be
surrendered at any time by the owner thereof pursuant to these
regulations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 47/94, s. (c).]





Surrender of mineral land within production area




2


With the approval of the administrator, designated mineral land
situated within a production area may be surrendered by the owner
thereof pursuant to these regulations.

[am. B.C. Reg. 47/94, s. (c).]





Quit claim deed or other instrument




3

(1)


Any surrender made pursuant to these regulations may be effected by a
quit claim deed or other instrument sufficient to vest title to the
interest being surrendered in the Crown in right of the Province free
and clear of all encumbrances.




(2)

Notwithstanding subsection (1), where an owner of mineral land wishes
to surrender mineral land which is not free and clear of all
encumbrances, the owner may apply to the administrator for the
administrator's approval to the surrender and the administrator, if
the administrator deems the surrender appropriate, may approve the
form of the quit claim deed or other instrument produced.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 7 and 11.]





Registration in land title office




4


An owner, after obtaining approval of the administrator where
required, shall register the owner's quit claim deed or other
instrument evidencing the surrender in the appropriate land title
office, and shall forward to the administrator a copy of the
instrument duly numbered by the registrar.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 7.]





Jointly held mineral land




5


Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where mineral
land is held by more than one owner, in the absence of the consent of
the administrator, all owners must surrender their interest in the
mineral land.






No fee payable




6


No fee in respect of a surrender shall be payable under the

Land Title Act

.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of these regulations:

Mineral Land Tax Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 290, s. 21.]



