







B.C. Reg. 377/85

O.C. 2191/85


Deposited November 29, 1985






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.




Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)






Link to Point in Time




British Columbia Transit Act


Transit Conduct and Safety Regulation

[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]





Interpretation




1


In this regulation:


"Act"
means the

British Columbia Transit Act

;



"fare paid zone"

means any transit property to which access is restricted by sign to
those persons who possess proof of payment;



"proof of payment"

means a valid transfer, valid fare receipt or other valid evidence of
payment established under the tariff;


"tariff"
means the applicable fare structure




(a)

set out in an annual operating agreement,




(b)

established by a regional transit commission, or




(c)

in the case of a commuter rail service, prescribed by the Lieutenant
Governor in Council or set out in the operating agreement pertaining
to the commuter rail service;



"transit employee"

means an employee of British Columbia Transit, its agents and
contractors and their employees;



"transit property"

means property owned or controlled by British Columbia Transit or its
contractors or agents and used to provide transit services;



"transit vehicle"

means any conveyance operated by or on behalf of British Columbia
Transit for the transportation of passengers, goods or both.

[am. B.C. Reg. 424/95.]





Application




2


Sections 3, 4 and 8 (1) to (3) (d) do not apply to transit employees
acting in the course of duty.






Requirement to pay fare




3


A person boarding a transit vehicle that is not a fare paid zone shall




(a)

in the presence of a transit employee pay the fare required by the
tariff, or




(b)

present proof of payment to a transit employee.






Fare paid zones




4

(1)


A person entering a fare paid zone shall




(a)

pay the fare required by the tariff and obtain proof of payment, or




(b)

possess proof of payment.




(2)

A person shall, while the person is in a fare paid zone, retain the
proof of payment and produce it for inspection at the request of a
transit employee.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 6.]





Proof of payment not transferable




5

(1)


Except as may be permitted by the tariff, a proof of payment is not
transferable.




(2)

No person shall use a proof of payment unless it was purchased for the
person's use at the fare required of the person by the tariff.

[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 7 and 8.]





Requirement to obey signs and rules




6

(1)


Where British Columbia Transit makes rules, or posts signs on transit
vehicles or other transit property, for the safety, good order or
convenience of persons while they are on, entering or leaving a
transit vehicle or other transit property, a transit employee may
require, as a condition of allowing any person to enter or remain on
the transit vehicle or transit property, that the person obey the
signs or comply with the rules.




(2)

Where a person does not obey a sign or comply with the rules when
required to do so by a transit employee acting in accordance with
subsection (1), any transit employee may




(a)

refuse that person permission to enter the transit vehicle or other
transit property, or




(b)

order that person to leave the transit vehicle or other transit
property.






Restrictions on access to transit property




7


No person shall, unless authorized to do so,




(a)

park or operate a vehicle on transit property,




(b)

enter or remain on or in tracks, docks, bridges, guideways, tunnels,
roads or rights of way that are used or intended for use only by
transit vehicles, or




(c)

go on or through any transit property other than a portion of it
provided by British Columbia Transit as public access to a transit
vehicle.






Public safety and protection of property




8

(1)


No person shall operate or use an alarm or any emergency device or
equipment in a transit vehicle or on other transit property except in
an emergency.




(2)

A person who operates or uses an alarm or any emergency device or
equipment in a transit vehicle or on other transit property shall as
soon as possible report the operation or use and the circumstances




(a)

in accordance with any posted rules or sign, or




(b)

to the first available transit employee.




(3)

No person shall




(a)

place any object or obstacle on or in a track, dock, bridge, guideway,
tunnel, road or right of way used by a transit vehicle,




(b)

damage, tamper with or remove any equipment or device on a transit
vehicle or transit property,




(c)

prevent or interfere with the operation of a transit vehicle,




(d)

in a transit vehicle, occupy any place not intended for public use, or




(e)

impede a transit employee in the operation of a transit vehicle.






Offence




9

(1)


A person who contravenes section 3, 4 (1) or (2), 5 (2) or 7 (a), (b)
or (c) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $150.




(2)

Where permission to enter a transit vehicle or other transit property
is refused under section 6 (2) (a), a person who enters the transit
vehicle or other property despite the refusal commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $150.




(3)

A person who disobeys an order under section 6 (2) (b) to leave a
transit vehicle or other transit property commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $150.




(4)

A person who contravenes section 8 (1) or (3) (a), (b), (c), (d) or
(e) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $500.



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

British Columbia Transit Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 38, ss. 13 (3) and (4) and 32.]



