
Occupational Health and Safety Regulation

Workers Compensation Act


Table 4-1: Illumination levels for task categories





Task category





Examples
1






Minimum
2
illumination

level in lux








1. Simple orientation for short temporary visits


Inactive storage, waiting areas, VDT screens, log loading and
unloading.

50



2. Working spaces where visual tasks are only occasionally
performed


Stairways, freight elevators, truck loading, active bulk storage.

100



3. Visual tasks of high contrast or large size


Bakery mixing rooms, hospital central (clean) linen rooms, locker
rooms, reading good quality text, casual reading, simple assembly,
hand or simple spray painting, rough lumber grading, rough
woodworking and benchwork.

200



4. Visual tasks of medium contrast or small size


Hair styling shops, kitchens, vehicle repair garages, sawmill
filing room (work areas), reading poor quality text, prolonged or
critical reading, medium bench or machine work, mail sorting, fine
hand painting and finishing, fine woodworking and finishing.

500



5. Visual tasks of low contrast or very small size


Difficult assembly tasks, difficult inspections, weaving, clothing
alteration, finished lumber grading.

1 000



6. Visual tasks of low contrast and very small size over a
prolonged period


Very difficult assembly tasks, sewing, fine bench or machine work,
extra-fine hand painting and finishing.

2 000



7. Very prolonged and exacting visual tasks


Exacting assembly or inspection, extra fine bench or machine work,
precision manual arc-welding.

5 000



8. Very special visual tasks of extremely low contrast and
small size


Very detailed cloth product inspection and examination.

10 000



Note 1:
Further guidance in determining task categories that apply to
specific work areas and activities is contained in the IES
Handbook. This publication also provides information on acceptable
measures to control brightness, reflectance and glare.




Note 2:
The lux is the metric unit of light measurement, and replaces the
footcandle (fc), which was the traditional imperial unit of
measurement. One lux equals about one tenth of a footcandle. For
example, the minimum illumination in footcandles for task category
number 4, which is common in the office environment, is about 50
footcandles.


