







B.C. Reg. 203/2013

O.C. 391/2013


Deposited September 25, 2013






This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.


Utilities Commission Act


Direction No. 4 to the British Columbia Utilities Commission






Definitions




1


In this direction:


"Act"
means the

Utilities Commission Act

;



"applicable customer"

means a residential customer of the authority who receives services
from the authority at an applicable premises;



"applicable premises"

means a building, structure or equipment of a customer if the
building, structure or equipment is connected to the electric
distribution system and has an electricity meter;



"electricity balance analysis"

has the same meaning as in the Smart Meters and Smart Grid Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 368/2010;



"failed installation costs"

means costs related to attendance at a premises to install a legacy
meter, radio-off meter or smart meter where installation is not
carried out because of either an objection made by a customer or an
obstruction;



"infrastructure costs"

means costs related to the installation and operation of
communications infrastructure in areas where the installation of one
or more legacy meters or radio-off meters hinders or would hinder the
transmission of information among smart meters;



"investigation costs"

means costs related to investigating and identifying the location of
unmetered loads referred to in section 4 (1) (a) (iv) of the Smart
Meters and Smart Grid Regulation, B.C. Reg. 368/2010, in areas where
the installation of one or more legacy meters reduces or would reduce
the accuracy of electricity balance analyses performed to estimate the
extent and location of those loads;



"legacy meter"

means an electricity meter, other than a smart meter or a radio-off
meter, that is of a type in use by the authority;



"program costs"

means costs related to the installation and operation of, and services
related to, legacy meters or radio-off meters at applicable premises,
including, without limiting this, costs related to




(a)

computer hardware and software systems respecting the use and
operation of legacy meters or radio-off meters,




(b)

the conversion of radio-off meters into smart meters for future
customers, and




(c)

attendance at an applicable premises to install a legacy meter or
radio-off meter;



"radio-off meter"

means a smart meter adjusted so that the meter's components that
transmit data by radio are deactivated;



"smart meter"

means a meter that




(a)

meets the requirements set out in section 2 of the Smart Meters and
Smart Grid Regulation, B.C. Reg. 368/2010, and




(b)

has components that transmit data by radio and those components are
activated.






Application




2


This direction is issued to the commission under section 3 of the Act.






Rates




3

(1)


In setting rates under the Act for the authority, the commission must
ensure that the rates allow the authority to collect sufficient
revenue in each fiscal year to enable it to recover the following
costs from the following customers:




(a)

program costs, investigation costs and infrastructure costs from




(i)

applicable customers at applicable premises where a legacy meter or
radio-off meter is installed, to the extent that the authority
requests recovery of any of those costs from these customers, and




(ii)

all customers, to the extent that any of those costs are not recovered
under subparagraph (i);




(b)

from all customers, costs incurred with respect to the installation
and operation of, and services related to, smart meters;




(c)

failed installation costs from customers at a premises where a failed
installation occurred.




(2)

The commission must allow the authority to establish a regulatory
account for the recovery of costs referred to in subsection (1) (a)
(ii) and (1) (b) for the period from January 1, 2013, to March 31,
2014.




(3)

Within 30 days of the date this direction comes into force, the
commission must issue an order so that the Electric Tariff of the
authority is amended by adding the provisions set out in the Appendix
to this direction.




(4)

The commission must not do anything to amend the provisions added to
the Electric Tariff under subsection (3), except on application by the
authority.






Commission's powers




4

(1)


The commission must not exercise a power under the Act in a way that
would directly or indirectly prevent the authority from installing,
operating or providing services in respect of legacy meters, smart
meters and radio-off meters.




(2)

The commission must not require the authority to install a legacy
meter or radio-off meter for




(a)

a non-residential customer, or




(b)

an applicable customer, if a smart meter is installed at the
applicable premises of the applicable customer on or after the date
this direction comes into force.




(3)

Without limiting subsection (1) of this section, the commission must
refrain from exercising its power under section 45 (5) of the Act to
the extent to which the section is applicable with respect to the
installation and operation of legacy meters, smart meters and
radio-off meters.




Appendix


(section 3 (3))


Interpretation


The definitions in Direction No. 4 to the British Columbia Utilities
Commission apply to sections 4.2.1 to 4.2.4 of this tariff.


4.2.1. Meter Types


BC Hydro's standard meter for measuring Electricity consumption and (if
applicable) demand at a Customer's Premises is the Smart Meter. Except
as set out in section 4.2.2, in all cases BC Hydro will install a Smart
Meter at a Customer's Premises.


Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, but subject to the conditions
specified in section 4.2.2 being satisfied in each case, BC Hydro will
permit to remain in operation, install, replace, maintain and service
Legacy Meters and Radio-off Meters at a Residential Service Customer's
Premises for the periods specified in sections 4.2.3 and 4.2.4.



4.2.2. Conditions for Retention or Installation of Legacy Meters and
Radio-off Meters



The conditions that must be satisfied in order for BC Hydro to permit to
remain in operation, install, replace, maintain and service Legacy
Meters or Radio-off Meters at a Residential Service Customer's Premises
are:


(a) the Customer is, as of the date of the Customer's election in
accordance with clause (c) or deemed election in accordance with clause
(d), taking Residential Service at the Customer's Premises;


(b) BC Hydro had not, before the date of the Customer's election in
accordance with clause (c) or deemed election in accordance with clause
(d), installed a Smart Meter at the Customer's Premises, but rather a
Legacy Meter remained in place at those Premises as of the date of the
Customer's election or deemed election; and


(c) the Customer, during the period beginning September 1, 2013 and
ending December 1, 2013, by notice to BC Hydro, elects to retain the
Legacy Meter then in place at the Customer's Premises, or to have a
Radio-off Meter installed in place of the Legacy Meter; or


(d) the Customer, despite satisfaction of the conditions set out in
clauses (a) and (b) has failed to provide notice of election to BC Hydro
in accordance with clause (c), in which case the Customer shall be
deemed to have elected effective December 1, 2013, to retain the
existing Legacy Meter at the Customer's Premises and the Customer shall
thereafter pay the charges for having a Legacy Meter installed at the
Customer's Premises as set out in the Schedule of Standard Charges.



4.2.3. Periods during which Legacy Meters May Remain in Place



If the conditions set out in section 4.2.2 have been satisfied,
Residential Service Customers who have satisfied the conditions in
section 4.2.3 and who have elected, or are deemed to have elected, to
retain a Legacy Meter at the Customer's Premises may continue to have
their Electricity consumption measured by the Legacy Meter for the
periods, and subject to the conditions, specified below:


(a) A Customer who has elected, or is deemed to have elected, to retain
a Legacy Meter can continue to retain the Legacy Meter until the seal of
the meter expires, or the meter ceases to function properly, whichever
comes first.


(b) If the seal of a Legacy Meter expires, or the meter ceases to
function properly before the seal expiry date, BC Hydro will, so long as
it has a suitable Legacy Meter in its meter inventory available for
installation, install a replacement Legacy Meter at the Customer's
Premises. A Customer for whom a replacement Legacy Meter has been
installed in accordance with the preceding sentence can continue to
retain the replacement Legacy Meter for the period specified in clause
(a), and any replacement Legacy Meter so installed shall be subject to
replacement in accordance with this clause (b) as the occasion arises.
For purposes of this section, BC Hydro will only be deemed to have
suitable replacement Legacy Meters in its meter inventory if it has
existing verified and sealed Legacy Meters in its meter inventory as of
the date that a Legacy Meter in place at a Customer's Premises requires
replacement, and BC Hydro is under no obligation to repair, rebuild or
modify, or re-verify and re-seal, any Legacy Meters that have been
removed from service for any reason, nor to purchase or otherwise
acquire from any source any Legacy Meters in replenishment of its Legacy
Meter inventory.


(c) In any case where the seal of a Legacy Meter expires, or the meter
ceases to function properly, and BC Hydro does not have a suitable
Legacy Meter in its meter inventory available for installation, BC Hydro
will install either a Smart Meter or a Radio-off Meter at the Customer's
Premises, at the Customer's election. A Customer with a Legacy Meter
installed at the Customer's Premises can also elect to have a Smart
Meter or a Radio-off Meter installed in place of the Legacy Meter at any
time. A Customer who elects to have a Smart Meter or a Radio-off Meter
installed at the Customer's Premises cannot later change back to a
Legacy Meter at the applicable Premises.


(d) A Customer with a Legacy Meter in place at the Customer's Premises
who moves to another Premises for which the Customer is eligible to take
Residential Service, can elect to have a Smart Meter or Radio-off Meter
installed at the new Premises, but cannot retain or have installed a
Legacy Meter at the new Premises. Except where a Customer who is
eligible to elect to have either a Smart Meter or a Radio-off Meter
installed in a new Premises moves into the vacated premises and elects
to have a Radio-off Meter installed, the vacated Premises will in all
cases have a Smart Meter installed.


(e) A Customer with a Legacy Meter in place whose service is terminated
for any reason whatsoever ceases to be eligible to retain a Legacy
Meter, and if that Customer again takes Residential Service at the same
or another Premises the Customer can elect to have either a Smart Meter
or a Radio-off Meter installed upon resumption of service.


(f) In any case where a Customer ceases to be eligible to have a Legacy
Meter installed at the Customer's Premises, or BC Hydro no longer has
suitable Legacy Meters available for installation at the Customer's
Premises, and the Customer is required to elect to have either a
Radio-off Meter or a Smart Meter installed instead, but the Customer
refuses or fails to make an election within 10 days after BC Hydro has
delivered written notice to the Customer's Premises notifying the
Customer that he or she must elect either a Radio-off Meter or a Smart
Meter, the Customer will be deemed to have elected to have a Radio-off
Meter installed and the Customer shall pay the charges for having a
Radio-off Meter installed at the Customer's Premises as set out in the
Schedule of Standard Charges from the date of BC Hydro's installation of
the replacement Radio-off Meter.



4.2.4. Periods during which Radio-off Meters May Remain in Place



If the conditions set out in section 4.2.2 have been satisfied,
Residential Service Customers who have satisfied the conditions in
section 4.2.2 and who have elected, or is deemed to have elected, to
have a Radio-off Meter installed may continue to have their Electricity
consumption measured by the Radio-off Meter for the periods, and subject
to the conditions, specified below:


(a) A Customer who has elected,or is deemed to have elected, to have a
Radio-off Meter installed can continue to retain the Radio-off Meter,
and have a replacement Radio-off Meter installed from time to time as
necessary, for so long as the Customer continues to take Residential
Service at the Customer's Premises.


(b) A Customer with a Radio-off Meter in place at the Customer's
Premises who moves to another Premises for which the Customer is
eligible to take Residential Service, may elect to have a Smart Meter or
a Radio-off Meter installed at the new Premises. Except where a Customer
who is eligible to have either a Smart Meter or a Radio-off Meter
installed in a new Premises moves into the vacated Premises and elects
to have a Radio-off Meter installed, the vacated Premises will in all
cases have a Smart Meter installed.


(c) A Customer with a Radio-off Meter in place whose service is
terminated for any reason whatsoever, but who again takes Residential
Service at the same or another premises may elect to have either a Smart
Meter or a Radio-off Meter installed upon resumption of service.


[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:

Utilities Commission Act

, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 473, section 3]



