






B.C. Reg. 245/2007


O.C. 508/2007



Deposited June 26, 2007







This consolidation is current to March 21, 2017.

See the

Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2017


for amendments effective after March 21, 2017.





Link to Point in Time





Utilities Commission Act




Special Direction No. 10 to the

British Columbia Utilities    Commission



[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 17/2012, February 3, 2012]









Definitions and interpretation





1



(1)


In this Special Direction:



"Act"

means the


Utilities Commission              Act


;



"assets"

means the generation and storage assets set out in the
Schedule to the


BC Hydro Public Power Legacy and Heritage Contract              Act


;



"average water conditions"

means the average stream flows
occurring within the authority's historical record;



"biomass contract"

means an energy supply contract entered into
by the authority and a proponent of a project selected by the authority as a result of the
call for power;



"call for power"

means the process to acquire electricity solely
from wood biomass being conducted by the authority on the date this Special Direction
comes into force;



"electricity supply obligations"

means






(a)


electricity supply obligations for which rates are filed with the commission
under section
61 of the Act, and






(b)


any other electricity supply obligations that exist at the time this Special
Direction comes into force


determined by using the authority's mid-level forecasts of its energy requirements
and peak load, taking into account demand-side management initiatives, that are accepted
by the commission from time to time;



"firm energy capability"

means the maximum amount of annual
energy that a hydroelectric system can produce under average water conditions;



"integrated area"

means the geographic areas in the Province,
other than the non-integrated areas, in which the authority serves customers under its
schedules of rates filed with the commission from time to time;



"non-integrated area"

means Anahim Lake, Atlin, Bella Bella,
Bella Coola, Dease Lake, Eddontenajon, Haida Gwaii and Telegraph Creek
District;



"wood biomass"

means






(a)


wood residue within the meaning of the


Forest              Act


,






(b)


wood debris from logging, construction or demolition operations,






(c)


organic residues from pulp and paper production processes, and






(d)


timber, within the meaning of the


Forest              Act


, infested by the mountain pine beetle.






(2)


The definition of "firm energy capability" in subsection (1) must be interpreted
for the purposes of this Special Direction so as to be consistent with the fact that, in
2011, the authority's firm energy capability was 48 200 gigawatt hours.


[am. B.C. Regs. 251/2010, Sch. s. 3; 17/2012, s. 1.]








Application





2



This Special Direction is issued to the commission under section 3 of the
Act.








Self-sufficiency





3



Subject to section 5 (2) (a), in regulating, and setting rates for, the authority,
including, without limitation,






(a)


considering an application made by the authority for a certificate of public
convenience and necessity under section 46 of the Act, and






(b)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 17/2012, s. 2 (c).]






(c)


considering an energy supply contract under section 71 of the Act,


the commission must use the criterion that the authority is to achieve energy and
capacity self-sufficiency by becoming capable of






(d)


meeting, by 2016 and each year thereafter, the electricity supply
obligations






(e)


Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 17/2012, s. 2 (c).]


solely from electricity generating facilities within the Province, assuming no more
in each year than the firm energy capability from the assets that are hydroelectric
facilities.


[am. B.C. Reg. 17/2012, s. 2.]








Biomass contracts





4



In considering a biomass contract under section 71 (2) of the Act, the commission
may not find that a biomass contract is not in the public interest solely by reason of the
factor described in section 71 (2) (d) of the Act and must be primarily guided by the following
factors, which are of material value to the authority's ratepayers:






(a)


the acquisition of energy by the authority under a biomass contract will reduce
the risk to the authority of future costs associated with the production of gases that
contribute to global climate change;






(b)


energy acquired by the authority under a biomass contract will contribute to
diversification of the authority's electricity supply portfolio;






(c)


a biomass contract will assist the authority to meet its requirements for
electrical capacity.








Rates





5



(1)


In setting rates for the authority, the commission must ensure that the
authority's rates and classes of service available to customers in the non-integrated
area, including rates available to customers whose electricity demand is or is likely to
be in excess of 45 kV.A, are available to customers who receive electricity service under
section
2 of the Remote Communities Regulation.






(2)


In setting rates for the authority, the commission must ensure that those rates
allow the authority to collect sufficient revenue in each fiscal year to enable the
authority to






(a)


achieve energy and capacity self-sufficiency as described in section 3 of
this Special Direction,






(b)


recover costs incurred as a result of the call for power, including costs
incurred in purchasing electricity under a biomass contract, and






(c)


recover costs related to the provision of electricity service under section 2 of
the Remote Communities Regulation.








Interim planning criteria





6



(1)


In deciding whether to issue a certificate to the authority under section 46 of the Act
for the Ruskin Dam and Powerhouse Upgrade Project, the commission must assume that the
authority requires, in order to meet its electricity supply obligations, the 334 gigawatt
hours per year of firm energy and 114 megawatts of dependable capacity that the project is
capable of delivering by 2018 and continuing to deliver over the expected life of the
project.






(2)


In deciding whether to issue a certificate to the authority under section 46 of the Act
for the John Hart Generating Station Replacement Project, the commission must assume that
the authority requires, in order to meet its electricity supply obligations, the 806
gigawatt hours per year of firm energy and 128 megawatts of dependable capacity that the
project is capable of delivering by 2018 and continuing to deliver over the expected life
of the project.






(3)


In determining under section 71 of the Act whether the authority's energy
supply contract in respect of the Conifex Mackenzie Power Project is in the public
interest, the commission must assume that the authority requires, by 2013, in order to
meet its electricity supply obligations, the 200 gigawatt hours per year of firm energy
that would be provided under the contract.






(4)


In considering under section 44.2 (3) of the Act whether to accept or reject all
or part of the authority's expenditure schedule relating to proposed expenditures on
demand-side measures for the authority's 2012 and 2013 fiscal years, the commission,
despite sections 44.2
(3) (a) and (5.1) of the Act, must accept an expenditure respecting a
demand-side measure if






(a)


the demand-side measure is cost-effective in accordance with the Demand-Side
Measures Regulation, and






(b)


the expenditure has not been shown to the satisfaction of the commission to be
unreasonable for achieving the reductions in demand attributable to the demand-side
measure.






(5)


In setting rates for the authority, the commission must ensure that those rates
allow the authority to collect sufficient revenue in each fiscal year to enable the
authority to recover costs incurred in carrying out demand-side measures accepted under
subsection
(4).


[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2012, s. 3.]



[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:


Utilities          Commission Act


, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 473, section 3]



