View Complete Statute
Vancouver Charter
[SBC 1953] CHAPTER 55
Part XXIV — Local Improvements
Interpretation
498.
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,
"assessed owner"
means the person appearing by the records kept by the Collector of
Taxes to be the owner of any parcel of real property, unless it
appears by such records that the parcel is held by an owner under
agreement, in which case "assessed owner" means such owner under
agreement. In the case of a parcel of Crown lands it shall mean the
occupier of the said parcel;
"cost of the project"
may include
(a)
surveying and engineering expenses;
(b)
cost of advertising and of mailing notices;
(c)
interest on temporary loans;
(d)
interest during construction;
(e)
compensation for real property acquired for the purpose of the project
or injuriously affected by it, and the expense incurred by the city in
connection with the determination of such compensation;
(f)
the estimated cost of the issue and sale of debentures and of any
discount allowed to the purchasers of them;
(g)
expenditures which, at the time of their authorization, were
designated by Council to form part of the cost of an anticipated local
improvement.
1953-55-498; 1957-85-19; 1974-104-40; 1977-30-162, proclaimed
effective September 30, 1977.
Mailing of notices
499.
For the purposes of this Part, a notice shall be deemed to be mailed
to a person if it is mailed, addressed to such person at the person's
actual place of residence or of business, if known, or at the person's
address as it appears in the records kept by the Collector of Taxes.
1953-55-499; 1977-30-163, proclaimed effective September 30, 1977;
2022-15-76,Sch 4.
Local improvement projects
500.
(1)
When, in the exercise of any of its powers of effecting and carrying
out any works, improvements, or services, the Council deems that any
such works, improvements, or services will specially benefit real
property in a limited and determinable area, the Council may from time
to time, subject to the provisions of this Part, undertake and carry
out such works, improvements, or services (in this Part referred to as
"projects") and pass by-laws (herein referred to as "local improvement
by-laws") for borrowing on the general credit of the city such sums as
may be necessary to defray the cost of any such project and for
levying and collecting taxes based on special assessments imposed,
save as hereinafter provided, upon the real property so deemed to be
specially benefited, for the payment of all or any part of such cost.
(2)
Instead of passing a separate by-law for each such project, the
Council may pass one by-law in respect of several projects.
(3)
[Repealed 1961-76-9.]
1953-55-500; 1957-85-14; 1960-80-9; 1961-76-9.
Property-owner's share of the cost
501.
The amount of taxes so to be levied and collected (herein referred to
as the "property-owners' share of the cost") shall be apportioned
against the individual parcels of real property in the area in
proportion to their respective special benefits on the basis and in
the manner prescribed by by-law.
1953-55-501.
City's share of the cost
502.
Any part of the cost of a project not so to be levied and collected
(hereinafter referred to as "the city's share of the cost") shall be
paid by the city, and the Council may from time to time, by by-law,
provide for such payment out of the general revenue of the city, or
out of capital funds raised by the issue of debentures upon the
general credit of the city at large for the purpose of creating a
general fund to provide the city's share of the cost of local
improvements either before or after the initiation, commencement, or
completion thereof.
1953-55-502; 1955-114-15.
Crown, how dealt with
503.
The amount of taxes that would otherwise be collected under this part
from the Crown shall be paid by the city, unless the Crown pays them
or their equivalent voluntarily.
1953-55-503.
Property otherwise exempt may be taxed
504.
(1)
Every parcel of real property that is exempt from real property
taxation under Part XX is liable to be specially assessed and to be
taxed under this Part except
(a)
Crown land, or
(b)
real property vested in the City, or
(c)
real property vested in the Board of School Trustees of School
District 39 (Vancouver), or
(c.1)
real property located within the boundaries of School District 39
(Vancouver) that is vested in the Conseil Scolaire Francophone de la
Colombie-Britannique continued under section 166.12 of the
School Act
, or
(d)
real property of a hospital that is exempt from real property taxation
under section 396 (1) (c) (iii).
(2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1),
(a)
the right or interest of an occupier of Crown land, or
(b)
real property vested in the City that Council, by resolution, has
declared to be liable to be specially assessed and taxed under this
Part with respect to the cost of a project specified in the
resolution,
is liable to be specially assessed and taxed under this Part.
(3)
Subsection (1) (d) does not apply to real property in respect of which
a special assessment may be made and taxes levied under this Part for
the payment of all or part of the cost of a project undertaken by a
by-law passed prior to January 1, 1976 under this Part, until the
property-owner's share of the cost prescribed by the by-law in respect
of the cost of that project has been fully paid.
(4)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on January 1,
1976, and is retroactive to the extent necessary to give it full force
and effect on and after that date.
1976-32-23, proclaimed July 8, 1976, effective January 1, 1976;
1990-32-13; 1997-52-75.
Borrowing for project
505.
The Council may, pending the completion of a project, borrow from any
bank or other person, by way of temporary loans, the necessary amounts
to meet the cost of the project, and upon such completion may pass a
by-law for the issue of debentures to repay such temporary loans.
1953-55-505.
Process for initiating local improvements
506.
The Council may, in its discretion, undertake and carry out a project
in any of the following cases: —
By petition of owners
(1)
By petition: If there has been filed with the City Clerk a
sufficiently signed petition praying that a work, improvement, or
service, claimed to be of special benefit to real property in a
limited and determinable area designated in the petition, be
undertaken and carried out. The petition shall be deemed to be
sufficiently signed if at least two-thirds in number of the assessed
owners as at the date of the filing, representing at least one-half
the value according to the last real-property assessment roll of the
parcels liable to be specially assessed, have signed the petition; or
On initiative of Council
(2)
On the initiative of the Council:
(a)
If the Council, by resolution passed by at least two-thirds of all the
members present, has declared that it is desirable that a work,
improvement, or service which the Council deems will specially benefit
the real property in a limited and determinable area designated in the
resolution be undertaken and carried out; and
Provision for objections
(b)
If, after notice of the Council's intention to undertake the project
has been mailed to the assessed owners of the parcels liable to be
specially assessed, a sufficient number of notices of objection to the
project has not been filed with the City Clerk during the period of
one month after the mailing of such notice. The notice so to be mailed
shall be sufficient if it sets out in general terms
(i)
a description of the project;
(ii)
the designated area;
(iii)
the estimated total cost of the project and the city's share of the
cost;
(iv)
the estimated annual rate per front foot or otherwise to the person
notified;
(v)
the number of annual payments to be required.
A sufficient number of notices of objection to a project shall be
deemed to be filed if at least more than one-half in number of the
then assessed owners, representing at least more than one-half of the
value according to the last real-property assessment roll, of the
parcels liable to be specially assessed have, in writing, given notice
to the City Clerk within the time above prescribed that they object to
the project.
On special grounds
(3)
On special grounds: If the Council, by resolution passed by two-thirds
of all its members, has declared that it is necessary in the public
interest that in a limited and determinable area designated in the
resolution any of the following works, improvements, or services
should be undertaken or carried out: —
(a)
The construction, enlargement, or extension of any system of sewerage
or drainage which the Council deems will specially benefit the real
property in the area; or
(b)
The acquisition of real property for establishing or enlarging a lane
where the Council deems that such acquisition will specially benefit
the real property in the area; or
(c)
Upon a street designated in the resolution,
Ornamental lighting
(i)
street lighting should be installed, constructed, and equipped for the
better lighting of such street which the Council deems will specially
benefit the real property in the area; or
Sidewalks
(ii)
a sidewalk of such materials and width as may be specified in the
resolution should be constructed which the Council deems will
specially benefit the real property in the area; or
Paving and repaving or resurfacing streets
(iii)
paving, repaving, or resurfacing of a street or the widening of the
pavement on a street which Council deems will specially benefit the
real property in the area.
The taxes to be levied against any parcel pursuant to this clause (c)
shall not exceed twenty-five per centum of the assessed value of such
parcel (exclusive of improvements);
(d)
the acquisition and development of parks where the Council deems such
acquisition will specially benefit the real property in the area.
1953-55-506; 1960-80-10; 1961-76-11; 1967-63-10,11; 1974-104-41 to 43;
2003-66-58.
Collective parking project
506A.
(1)
Where a collective parking project (hereinafter called "the parking
project") undertaken by Council as a local improvement pursuant to
subsection (1) of section 506 has been completed, then the Council may
pass a by-law annually to provide for any or all of the following: —
(a)
The cost of
(i)
cleaning, maintaining, and repairing the parking project;
(ii)
supplying electrical energy for the lighting of the parking project;
(iii)
supplying water for the parking project;
(iv)
public liability insurance covering the parking project, the amount of
such insurance to be established by the Council:
(b)
A sum equal to real-property and local-improvement taxes which would
be levied against the parking project but for the exemptions from such
taxes allowed on real property vested in the city,
by a special assessment imposed upon the real property benefited by
and specially assessed for the construction of the parking project
sufficient to defray such costs and charges. A schedule shall be
appended to the by-law establishing the amount of such costs and
charges that is to be levied against each parcel of land specially
assessed. The by-law shall set out the period to which such costs and
charges apply.
(2)
The costs and charges levied against each parcel of land pursuant to
subsection (1) shall be a sum which bears to the total costs and
charges levied against all of the real property pursuant to subsection
(1) the same ratio as the amount specially assessed against each such
parcel of land for the cost of construction of the parking project
bears to the total cost of the construction of the parking project.
(3)
The special assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be a tax and shall be collected by the city in the same
manner and at the same time as the payment of real-property taxes
within the city.
(4)
Subsections (2) and (3) of section 510 shall not apply to a special
assessment imposed upon real property by a by-law passed pursuant to
subsection (1).
(5)
This section shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day
of January, 1957.
1961-76-12.
Maintenance of local improvements
506B.
(1)
Where a project undertaken by Council as a local improvement under
this part has been completed, then the Council may by by-law provide
that the annual cost of any or all of the following: —
(a)
Cleaning, maintaining, or repairing the project;
(b)
Supplying electric lighting, water, fuel, or steam for the project;
(c)
Public liability insurance covering the project, the amount of such
insurance to be established by Council;
(d)
any rental payable in respect of the space occupied by the project;
(e)
a sum equal to real-property and local-improvement taxes which would
be levied against the land and improvements comprised in the project
but for the exemptions from such taxes allowed on real property vested
in the city;
(f)
Interest on all moneys borrowed or advanced by the Council to pay for
the costs incurred under clauses (a), (b), and (c),
shall be specially assessed upon the real property benefited by the
project and specially assessed for the payment of all or any part of
the cost thereof.
(2)
The costs levied against each parcel of land pursuant to subsection
(1) shall be a sum which bears to the total costs levied against all
of the real property pursuant to subsection (1) the same ratio as the
amount specially assessed against each such parcel of land for the
cost of the project bears to the total amount specially assessed
against all the real property for the cost of the project.
(3)
The special assessment imposed pursuant to subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be a tax and shall be collected by the city in the same
manner and at the same time as the payment of real-property taxes
within the city.
(4)
Subsections (2) and (3) of section 510 shall not apply to a special
assessment imposed upon real property by a by-law passed pursuant to
subsection (1).
(5)
The by-law may provide that the city pay such portion of the annual
cost of any or all of the services mentioned in subsection (1) as the
Council may see fit as the city's share of the cost.
(6)
A by-law passed pursuant to this section remains in force from year to
year until repealed.
1970-54-28; 1972-67-30.
Local improvements on Council initiative
507.
(1)
Where a project undertaken on the initiative of the Council involves
the construction of a pavement in front of any property situate in a
residential district and the pavement exceeds 27 feet in width, the
cost of the excess shall be included in the city's share of the cost.
"Residential district"
, for the purposes of this subsection, means a district where no
outright uses other than single family or 2 family dwellings and
ancillary buildings are permitted.
(2)
If the Council considers that the designated area for a project
undertaken on the initiative of the Council is unduly large to proceed
under section 506 (2) (b), it may instead submit the project for the
assent of the electors in the area and, if more than one-third of the
votes are against the project, this has the same effect as if a
sufficient number of notices of objection were filed with the City
Clerk under that section.
1953-55-507; 1960-80-11; 1990-76-8; 1993-54-74; 1997-25-205.
By-law making regulations
508.
The Council may by by-law make regulations not inconsistent with this
Part
(a)
prescribing the forms and contents of notices, petitions, and other
documents referred to in this Part;
(b)
providing that signatures to petitions or notices of objection may not
be withdrawn or countermanded after their filing with the City Clerk;
(c)
prescribing the basis of assessment with respect to any project or
group of projects, whether on the frontage or the assessed value of
the parcels specially benefited, or on any other basis, including,
with respect to any two or more projects of a like nature, a provision
that by resolution the Council may establish a flat rate per foot
frontage, based on the average cost per foot frontage of such projects
as estimated by the Council. For the purpose of this clause,
"frontage" shall include "flankage";
(d)
providing that the notice of assessment required under section 510
may, where a project is undertaken on the initiative under section
506, be combined with the notice required under section 506;
(e)
for determining what other works, improvements, or services connected
with the project, but not a part of it, are necessary in the public
interest to be done at the same time as the project, and what portion
of the cost of such other works, improvements, or services shall be
included in the cost of the project;
(f)
for determining by what means corporations and others may sign
petitions or give notices of objection to a project, and for
delegating to the Collector of Taxes or other employee of the city the
power to certify whether any petition for a project has been
sufficiently signed, or whether a sufficient number of notices of
objection have been filed, and for providing that such certification
shall be final and conclusive for all purposes, subject to an appeal
to the Council by any person affected by the certificate;
(g)
where all the parcels in an area are not equally benefited, for
determining the proportion of benefit that shall be applied as between
different parcels or classes of parcels, and for apportioning the cost
of the project accordingly;
(h)
where on the real-property assessment roll two or more contiguous
parcels are treated as a single parcel, for providing that each such
parcel in an area shall nevertheless be taken into account on
petitions for, or notices of objection to, a project, and for
providing that the certificate of the assessor may be accepted in
arriving at the value of such contiguous parcels;
(i)
for providing the means of apportioning or otherwise adjusting the
taxes levied under this Part in cases where parcels are subdivided or
otherwise changed so far as their boundaries or zoning are concerned;
(j)
for determining what variation, if any, is to be applied in assessing
corner parcels, parcels of abnormal shape or situation, and
rights-of-way of railways and public utilities, to the end that they
may be dealt with in a fair and equitable manner as compared with the
other parcels;
(k)
for providing the means of ascertaining the probable cost of a project
and its probable lifetime;
(l)
for prescribing the terms and conditions upon which persons whose real
property is specially assessed may commute for a payment in cash the
taxes imposed thereon under this Part;
(m)
for fixing and determining what part of the cost of any particular
project shall be the city's share thereof and what part shall be the
property-owners' share thereof;
(n)
for providing by what person the special assessment roll shall be made
and the notices of assessment mailed;
(o)
for providing that the members of Council shall be the Court of
Revision for the purposes of this Part;
(p)
for providing that the city may as owner be reckoned as a petitioner
for a project, notwithstanding that it is not an owner liable to be
specially assessed;
(q)
for providing that, notwithstanding section 510, a Court of Revision
need not sit and notices of assessment need not be mailed if only the
supply of electrical energy is undertaken or if a project is submitted
for the assent of the electors under section 507 (2);
(r)
for providing that where the Council, by the votes of not less than
two-thirds of all the members of the Council, either by resolution or
by by-law, shall deem and declare, for reasons to be expressly therein
set forth, that any property is especially inequitably or unjustly
affected by any tax imposed against such property, pursuant to any
provision of this Part, the Council may, by such resolution or by-law,
reduce the said tax for any one or more years, or for the full period
of the by-law imposing such tax, and shall by such resolution or
by-law direct the Collector of Taxes to enter on the tax roll against
the said property the amount of the reduced tax in lieu of the
original tax; and the amount of the difference between the original
and such reduced tax shall be provided out of the general funds of the
city;
(s)
for making any other provision not inconsistent with this Act for the
carrying-out of a project and collecting the taxes provided for by
this Part.
1953-55-508; 1956-70-14; 1961-76-13; 1967-63-12; 1969-45-24;
1974-104-17; 1977-30-164, proclaimed effective September 30, 1977;
1992-57-13; 1993-54-75.
How joint owners dealt with
509.
Where two or more persons are together assessed for a parcel, in
determining the sufficiency of any petition or notice of objection
(a)
they shall, save as otherwise provided, be reckoned as one owner only;
(b)
they shall not be entitled to petition or object unless a majority of
them concur, and the signatures of any of them, unless the petition or
notice of objection is signed by the majority, shall be disregarded in
determining its sufficiency.
1953-55-509.
Preparation of special assessment roll before local improvement by-law
passed
510.
Before a special assessment is imposed upon any real property by the
passing of a local improvement by-law, the Council shall: —
(1)
Cause to be made a special assessment roll in which shall be entered
(a)
a short description of the project;
(b)
every parcel (identified by a short description) to be specially
assessed in respect of the property-owners' share of the cost, the
name of the assessed owner thereof, its length of frontage in feet or
assessed value, or other basis of assessment, as the case may be;
(c)
the estimated rate per foot or other basis of assessment applicable to
the parcel;
(d)
the number of annual instalments by which the taxes to be levied and
collected as a result of such special assessment are to be payable;
(e)
every exempt parcel, the name of the owner thereof, its length of
frontage in feet, or assessed value or other basis of assessment:
(2)
Cause a notice of assessment to be mailed to the assessed owner of
every parcel liable to be specially assessed, setting out with respect
to the project
(a)
a short description of the project;
(b)
the designated area;
(c)
the estimated cost of the project;
(d)
the estimated cost of the city's share;
(e)
the number of annual payments to be required;
(f)
the estimated annual rate per foot or other unit of assessment;
(g)
the time and, if applicable, place at which a Court of Revision will
sit to hear complaints against the proposed special assessments;
(h)
if the hearing is conducted by means of electronic or other
communication facilities, the way in which the hearing is to be
conducted by those means:
(3)
Unless otherwise provided, sit as a Court of Revision to hear
complaints against the proposed special assessments. Such complaints
shall be limited to the matters over which the Court of Revision has
jurisdiction as set out in section 511.
1953-55-510; 1960-80-12; 2022-15-71.
Its powers and duties
511.
The Court of Revision shall begin to sit to hear such complaints at
such time, not less than fifteen days, after the mailing of the last
of the notices referred to in the preceding section and after such
advertising of the sittings of the Court as the Council may direct.
The special assessment roll shall be kept open for inspection at the
office of the Collector of Taxes for at least fifteen days next before
the day fixed for the sitting of the Court of Revision. The Court of
Revision shall have jurisdiction and power to correct errors with
respect to
(a)
the names of the assessed owners;
(b)
the length of the frontage or other measurements of a parcel;
(c)
any variation applied pursuant to clauses (g) and (j) of section 508;
but it shall not have power to review or alter the proportions of the
cost of the project as between the city's share of the cost and the
property-owners' share of the cost as fixed by the Council.
1953-55-511; 1974-114-17.
Provision for additions to roll
512.
Where it appears to the Court of Revision that any parcel which is not
specially assessed should be specially assessed, the Court shall,
before determining the matter, adjourn its sittings to a future day
and cause notice to be mailed to the assessed owner of such parcel so
that the owner may be heard. The notice shall be mailed at least ten
days before the day fixed for the adjourned sittings. Whether the
owner appears or not, if the Court of Revision decides that any such
parcel ought to be specially assessed, the Court shall have power to
fix the amount of the special assessment thereon.
1953-55-512; 2022-15-73,Sch 1.
Further appeal
513.
(1)
Upon notice in writing given to the City Clerk within ten days of the
decision complained of, there shall be an appeal from any decision of
the Court of Revision to a Judge of the Supreme Court, who shall hear
the same summarily and have the like jurisdiction and powers as are
conferred upon the Court of Revision by section 511, and the
provisions of section 512 shall apply where it appears to the Judge
that any parcel not specially assessed ought to be so assessed.
(2)
An appeal on a question of law lies from a decision of the Judge of
the Court to the Court of Appeal with leave of a justice of the Court
of Appeal.
1953-55-513; 1982-7-110, proclaimed effective September 7, 1982;
1989-40-221.
Complaints about averaging and phasing in by-laws
513.1
(1)
In addition to its powers and duties under section 511, the Council,
sitting as a Court of Revision, may
(a)
adjudicate complaints made under a by-law adopted under section 374.4
respecting errors in
(i)
an adjustment to the net taxable value of any property,
(ii)
the application of the by-law to a property class, or
(iii)
an exemption from the by-law, and
(b)
direct the Collector of Taxes to make any amendments to the adjusted
value of any property that are necessary to give effect to its
decisions.
(2)
Section 513 applies in respect of complaints referred to in subsection
(1).
1992-70-40.
Roll not to be questioned
514.
The Collector of Taxes shall make such corrections in the special
assessment roll as are necessary to give effect to the decisions of
the Court of Revision and of the Judge, and thereupon the Collector
shall certify the roll. When so certified, the special assessments
therein, subject to any proceedings theretofore taken, shall not be
open to question in any Court, and any project undertaken by the
Council which is based on such special assessments shall be deemed to
have been lawfully undertaken in accordance with the provisions of
this Part.
1953-55-514; 1974-114-17; 2022-15-73,Sch 1.
Costs to be apportioned
515.
When the portion of the cost of the project to be borne by the
property-owners whose real property is specially benefited by the
project has been ascertained, it shall be apportioned in yearly
payments over the parcels of real property specially benefited, in
accordance with, and apportioned to, the amounts specially assessed
against each such parcel in the special assessment roll so certified.
The portion of the cost of the project to be borne by the
property-owners shall not exceed by more than ten per centum the cost
of such portion as estimated by the city, and any further excess shall
be borne by the city. The yearly payments shall include a sum
sufficient to cover the interest.
1953-55-515; 1966-69-18.
Local improvement by-law
516.
The Council shall pass a local improvement by-law levying the taxes so
apportioned to defray the property-owners' share of the cost of the
project. In a schedule to the by-law there shall be set out the yearly
payment apportioned as aforesaid with respect to each parcel. The
schedule to the by-law need not be annexed thereto and, if not so
annexed, it shall be embodied in the by-law by reference only. The
schedule shall be captioned with reference to the by-law, certified by
the Collector of Taxes, and deposited in the Collector's office during
the currency of the by-law. The schedule so deposited shall be an
integral part of the by-law as if expressly embodied therein.
1953-55-516; 1966-69-19; 1974-114-17; 2022-15-76,Sch 4.
Amounts to go in tax roll
517.
Thereupon the Collector of Taxes shall, with respect to each parcel so
specially assessed, insert in the real-property tax rolls for the
years required by the by-law, as a charge imposed with respect to such
parcel, the amount of the tax levied thereon by the by-law.
1953-55-517.
Council responsibilities and powers if special assessment by-law
inoperative
518.
(1)
If a debt has been incurred by the city under this Part, and if after
the incurring of such debt a special assessment is adjudged to be
invalid, or the by-law providing for borrowing money therefor is set
aside or quashed, either wholly or in part, by reason of any error,
irregularity, or illegality in making such assessment or in passing
such by-law, the Council shall cause a new assessment to be made, and
shall pass a new by-law when and so often as may be necessary to
provide funds for the payment of the debt so incurred for such work or
improvement.
(2)
Every liability or obligation incurred and every debenture issued by
the city under the authority of any such defective or illegal by-law
shall be as effectual and as binding as if the amending or new by-law
directed to be passed had been passed and was in force at the time
such liability or obligation was incurred or such debenture was
issued.
(3)
The Council may, of its own motion, amend and correct any manifest
error in any special assessment or in any local improvement by-law,
and may pass any amending, repealing, or new by-law that may be
necessary or expedient for the purpose of making effectual and binding
the liability incurred or the raising of any money by the issuing of
any debentures under the authority of any such by-law, and thereupon
every liability incurred and the special assessment and annual tax
imposed thereunder shall be as effectual and binding as if the
amending or new by-law directed to be passed had been passed and was
in force at the time such liability was incurred and the special
assessment and annual tax was levied.
1953-55-518.
Project may be reduced in scope
519.
Notwithstanding that the Council may have undertaken a project, it may
decide not to carry it out, or the Council may, if it deems that it is
inadvisable or impracticable to complete in its entirety any project
undertaken, reduce the scope and redefine the area and readjust the
limits of such project either before or after commencement thereof,
and may also provide that the portion of the cost of such project to
be borne by the real property benefited thereby shall be borne
proportionately in the same manner and on the same basis as originally
provided for such project.
1953-55-519.
Part V to apply
520.
The provisions of Part V with respect to borrowing and to debentures
and the issue thereof shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to borrowing and
to debentures issued pursuant to this Part.
1953-55-520.
Effect on city's debt
521.
A by-law authorizing the issue of debentures to defray the
property-owners' share of the cost of a project pursuant to this Part
need not be submitted for the assent of the electors, and such
debentures shall be deemed to form no part of the debt of the city
under Part V, nor shall it be necessary to include the amount of the
debt created by such debentures in any recital, under that Part, of
the total amount of the existing debenture debt of the city.
1953-55-521.
Shortage, how dealt with
522.
If in any year the amount realized from the taxes levied under this
Part to provide for the property-owners' share of the cost of a
project is insufficient to pay the amount falling due in such year,
the Council shall provide for the deficiency in the estimates for the
following year, but this shall not affect the special liability
imposed by the local improvement by-law upon the parcels specially
benefited.
1953-55-522.
Excess, how dealt with
523.
If the amount realized from the debentures under a local improvement
by-law exceeds the cost of the project, the excess shall be taken into
the general revenue of the city. If such amount is less than the cost
of the project, the shortage shall be paid out of general revenue and
shall be amortized over the life of the debentures.
1953-55-523.
Resolution cancelling local improvement or work
523A.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any by-law passed
in pursuance thereof, in the event of any local improvement or work
not being commenced within one year from the date of the sitting of
the Court of Revision which was held to hear complaints with respect
thereto, the Council may by resolution cancel the said local
improvement or work.
1957-85-15.
Special rates levy
523B.
(1)
If the assent of the electors in the designated benefiting area is
obtained to a question under this section, the Council has the power,
without the further assent of the electors, to pass by-laws as and
when Council considers appropriate to borrow money for the work,
improvement or service described in the question up to an aggregate
principal amount that does not exceed the amount authorized by the
question.
(2)
Before submitting a question under this section, the Council shall, by
resolution, declare that
(a)
it is desirable for the city to undertake a work, improvement or
service that Council considers will specially benefit real property in
a designated area of the city, and
(b)
an amount specified in the resolution must be borrowed for the work,
improvement or service.
(2.1)
After a resolution under subsection (2) has been made, the Council may
submit to the electors in the designated area a question setting out
(a)
the proposed work, improvement or service for which the money is to be
borrowed,
(b)
the maximum total amount proposed to be borrowed,
(c)
the area of the city within which the total amount of money to be
borrowed will be raised by a levy on the rateable property,
(d)
whether the levy will be based on frontage or on the assessed value of
the rateable property within the area, and
(e)
a statement that, if the question receives the assent of the electors,
the Council has the power, without the further assent of the electors,
to pass by-laws as and when Council considers appropriate to borrow
money for the work, improvement or service described in the question
up to an aggregate principal amount that does not exceed the amount
authorized by the question.
(3)
A by-law passed under this section shall provide that the total amount
of the indebtedness created by the debentures issued thereunder shall
be borne by the rateable property in the limited and determinable area
of the city designated by Council in such by-law and specially
benefited by the work, improvement, or service to be undertaken, and
whether such amount shall be levied according to the frontage of the
rateable property or according to the assessed value thereof. Such
levy shall commence not later than one year from the date of the issue
of the debentures authorized by the by-law. If the levy is on a
frontage basis, it shall not be necessary to state in such by-law the
annual rate per front foot.
(4)
If a by-law passed under this section provides for a levy to be made
according to the frontage of the rateable property, then allowance may
be made in any assessment for corner lots, triangular or irregularly
shaped parcels of land, and parcels comprising a railway right-of-way,
having due regard to the situation, value, and superficial area of
such lots or parcels as compared with adjoining lots and parcels of
land assessable for such work, improvement, or service, and the
Council may charge the amount of any allowance made on any such lot or
parcel of land on the other rateable property in such designated area,
or may assume the same and provide for payment thereof out of funds
raised by general debentures or out of the general revenue of the
city.
(5)
From any such assessment referred to in subsection (4), there shall be
the right to appeal to the Council, and from the Council to a Judge of
the Supreme Court. Such appeal shall be limited to the matters
referred to in section 511 and shall be brought within one year of the
final passing of such by-law, and the appeal to the said Judge shall
be brought within fourteen days of the decision of the Council.
Service of written notice of appeal on the City Clerk shall be deemed
to be the bringing of an appeal. The said Judge may make such order in
respect of such assessment and as to costs as the Judge may deem
advisable and equitable.
(5.1)
An appeal on a question of law lies from a decision of the Judge to
the Court of Appeal with leave of a justice of the Court of Appeal.
(6)
Subject to subsection (5), none of the foregoing sections in this Part
shall be applicable to this section, except sections 498 to 505,
inclusive, 508, and 518 to 523, inclusive.
1958-72-26; 1966-69-20 to 22; 1969-45-25; 1974-104-44; 1982-7-111,
proclaimed effective September 7, 1982; 1993-54-76; 2022-15-73,Sch 1.
Council may defer levies
523C.
(1)
The Council may, by a by-law passed by 2/3 of all its members, enter
into an agreement with any owner of real property providing for the
deferral of any levies imposed pursuant to this Part on such terms and
conditions as to Council seem appropriate.
(2)
During the life of any such agreement the City shall assume payments
of all levies so deferred in accordance with the provisions under
which such levies were imposed.
1978-41-30.
Council may assume levies
523C.1
The Council may, by by-law, provide for the city to assume any levies
imposed under this Part on the owner of real property if a project has
been replaced, removed or destroyed.
1993-74-13.
Contents
|
Preamble
|
Part I
|
Part II
|
Part III
|
Part IV
|
Part V
|
Part VI
|
Part VII
|
Part VIII
|
Part IX
|
Part X
|
Part XI
|
Part XII
|
Part XIII
|
Part XIV
|
Part XV
|
Part XVI
|
Part XVII
|
Part XVIII
|
Part XIX
|
Part XX
|
Part XXI
|
Part XXII
|
Part XXIII
|
Part XXIV |
Part XXIV-A
|
Part XXIV-B
|
Part XXV
|
Part XXVI
|
Part XXVII
|
Part XXVIII
|
Part XXIX
|
Part XXX
|
Part XXXI
