View Complete Statute
Vancouver Charter
[SBC 1953] CHAPTER 55
Part V — By-laws for Contracting Debts
Limit of borrowing power
236.
(1)
The Council may pass by-laws for contracting debts by borrowing money
or otherwise for any authorized purpose, in such currencies whether of
Canada or some other country as the Council deems expedient, and for
levying taxes on the real property in the city liable to taxation for
the payment of such debts, but the aggregate of the debt so contracted
shall not at any time be increased so as to exceed twenty per centum
of the total assessed value of such real property calculated upon the
average assessment for the two years prior to the year in which the
by-law is passed. The debentures issued therefor may be made payable
at such places, within or without Canada, and in such currencies,
whether of Canada or some other country, as the Council deems
expedient, and if the debentures are, or have been, made payable in
lawful money of the United States of America, a dollar so payable
shall, for the purpose of such calculation or of any other calculation
directed towards ascertaining whether or not any proposed borrowing is
within the power of Council, be deemed to be the equivalent of a
dollar payable in lawful money of Canada.
(2)
Any tax now or hereafter imposed by a by-law providing for the issue
of debentures may be levied and collected, under such by-law, as soon
as the by-law is passed.
1953-55-236.
When by-law takes effect
237.
The by-law shall name a day in the year in which it is passed upon
which the by-law shall take effect.
1953-55-237.
When debt repayable
238.
All debentures shall be issued within five years after the passing of
the by-law, and the whole debt shall be made payable within fifty
years at most from the day on which the by-law takes effect.
1953-55-238.
Issue of securities to cover debt
239.
(1)
In respect of a debt contracted under section 236, the by-law may
provide for the issue of debentures or other evidence of debt, the
interest on which is payable annually or semi-annually and the
principal of which is payable as provided in the by-law.
(2)
A by-law under subsection (1) must provide that a sum is to be levied
and raised by way of real-property taxes or special levy, charge, rate
or tax, in each year sufficient for whichever of the following is
applicable:
(a)
to make the annual payments for interest and principal;
(b)
if it is anticipated that the revenue from the undertaking for which
the debt is created will be insufficient to meet the annual payments,
to make up that deficiency.
(3)
As an exception, if all or part of the money required to be levied and
raised in any year under this section has been provided in advance in
accordance with either or both of sections 247A and 262, then the
money so provided need not be levied and raised in that year.
1997-25-169.
Borrowing from Metro Vancouver Regional District
239A.
(1)
Where, pursuant to this Act, the Council is authorized to borrow sums
of money, the Council may by by-law or resolution enter into an
agreement with the Metro Vancouver Regional District to provide that
any or all of the money so authorized may be borrowed from the said
district. The said agreement may contain such terms and conditions as
are lawfully required by the said district.
(2)
Where the city enters into an agreement with the Metro Vancouver
Regional District to borrow money, it shall not be necessary for the
city to issue debentures with respect to such borrowing, and section
239 shall not apply to such borrowing.
(3)
Where the city enters into an agreement with the Metro Vancouver
Regional District to borrow money, the Council shall, prior to
receiving the money from the said district, pass a by-law providing
that a sum shall be levied and raised by way of real-property taxes in
each year sufficient to provide for payment of interest and repayment
of the principal sum borrowed.
(4)
Where the said district issues debentures to raise the money for the
city pursuant to this section, and such debentures require the
establishment and maintenance of a sinking fund, the city may pay to
the said district in each year all sums of money required to pay the
interest on the debentures together with such sums as are required to
be paid into the sinking fund.
1969-45-13; 2018-23-53.
Recitals in money by-laws
240.
(1)
A by-law passed under the provisions of this Part shall recite
(a)
the amount of the debt which the by-law is intended to contract and,
in brief and general terms, the object for which it is to be
contracted;
(b)
the value according to the last assessment roll of all the real
property in the city liable to taxation;
(c)
the total amount of the existing debenture debt of the city, as at the
date of the first reading of the by-law, and how much, if any, of the
principal or interest thereof is in arrears as at the said date.
(2)
Clauses (b) and (c) shall not apply to a by-law passed pursuant to
sections 263 and 264.
1953-55-240; 1970-54-14; 2003-66-58.
Debt may be callable
241.
A by-law passed under the provisions of this Part and the debentures
issued thereunder may provide that the debentures, or a portion
thereof, may be called in and paid at any time before maturity upon
such terms as to notice or otherwise as may be specified in the
by-law.
1953-55-241.
What borrowing to be submitted to electors
242.
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in this or any other Act, the Council
shall not contract any debt, the full payment of which is not provided
for in the estimates adopted for the current year, unless a by-law
authorizing it has been passed with the assent of the electors.
(2)
Subsection (1) shall not apply to any debt contracted for any of the
following purposes: —
(a)
The construction, installation, maintenance, replacement, repair, and
regulation of a waterworks system, including water mains and other
water pipes, valves, fittings, hydrants, meters, and other necessary
appliances and equipment, for the purpose of the distribution and
supply of water, and for acquiring real property and easements
therefor:
(b)
The construction, installation, maintenance, replacement, repair, and
regulation of a system of sewerage and drainage, including all
necessary appliances and equipment for such purposes, and for
acquiring real property and easements therefor:
(b.1)
The design, construction, installation, maintenance and repair of an
energy utility system, including all necessary appliances and
equipment, and for acquiring real property and easements therefor:
(c)
Any debt or obligation contained in a contract for the supply of
materials, equipment or services, professional or otherwise, required
for the operation of the city:
(d)
Any debt or obligation contained in an agreement for the acquisition
by lease of real or personal property.
(d.1)
A mortgage or other obligation for the purposes of section 190 (1) (a)
in order to secure an amount owing under an agreement to acquire real
or personal property, if the mortgage or other obligation is for a
period of 10 years or less.
(e)
Borrowing under any agreement made pursuant to section 192 (a) for the
purpose of the development or redevelopment of the False Creek Area or
for creating housing (for the purposes of this subsection, the "False
Creek area" shall be generally all that area of land and land covered
by water bounded by Cambie Street and Connaught Bridge on the east,
the south side of Sixth Avenue on the south, Burrard Street and
Burrard Bridge on the west, and the Harbour Headline on the north side
of False Creek on the north):
(f)
The taking of any action under section 190.1
[financing in relation to Southeast False Creek development]
.
1953-55-242; 1969-45-14; 1970-54-15; 1974-104-49; 1993-74-3;
2007-6-41; 2009-1-2.
Valid after expiration of month
243.
Any by-law so passed and any debenture issued pursuant thereto shall
be absolutely valid and binding according to the terms thereof, and
shall not be questioned on any ground whatever unless within one month
after the final passing of the by-law
(a)
a notice of application to quash the by-law under Part XXV of this Act
has been served on the city; or
(b)
an action has been commenced in a Court of competent jurisdiction to
set the by-law aside.
1953-55-243.
Provision for amendment or diversion
244.
When any such by-law is so passed, it shall not be amended or repealed
by the Council except with the consent of the Lieutenant-Governor in
Council, but, without such consent,
(a)
a new by-law may be submitted for the assent of the electors
authorizing the diversion to some other purpose of the proceeds of the
by-law so passed in whole or in part, and if such new by-law receives
the assent of the electors, the proceeds may be diverted to such other
purpose; or
(b)
if a part of the proceeds of a by-law passed under the provisions of
this Part is not required for its objects or purposes, the Council may
transfer such part to the sinking fund or to a repayment fund in
respect of that by-law;
(c)
the Council may, by a two-thirds vote of all its members, divert to
some other purpose the proceeds of a by-law passed pursuant to section
245.
1953-55-244.
Borrowing over a period of years
245.
(1)
If the assent of the electors is obtained to a question under this
section, the Council has the power, without the further assent of the
electors, to borrow money for the purposes specified in the question
during the period specified in the question, subject to the limit that
the specified period may not be longer than 10 years.
(2)
A question under this section must set out the following:
(a)
the maximum total amount proposed to be borrowed;
(b)
the number of years during which Council may exercise its authority
under this section to borrow money without the assent of the electors;
(c)
the proposed projects for which the money is to be borrowed and the
amount allocated for each;
(d)
a statement that, if the question receives the assent of the electors,
the Council has the power, without the further assent of the electors,
to pass by-laws as and when Council considers appropriate to borrow
money for the projects described in the question up to an aggregate
principal amount that does not exceed the amount authorized by the
question.
(2.1)
An authority to borrow under subsection (1) is an authority to pass
by-laws to borrow by the issue of debentures in an aggregate principal
amount not greater than the amount specified in the question and, for
these purposes, the provisions of this Part relating to the borrowing
of money and the issue of debentures apply.
(3)
The Council by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all its members
may, without the assent of the electors, during the period of years
set out in the question or the extended period referred to in
subsection (4), vary the projects and amounts so listed so long as the
aggregate is not exceeded.
(4)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), if any of
the projects, or any part thereof, approved pursuant thereto, is
delayed for any reason, the Council shall have the power to pass
by-laws to borrow the funds necessary to carry out the said project
without the assent of the electors at any time within seven years
after the last year mentioned in the question submitted to the
electors.
(5)
In any question submitted pursuant to subsection (1), the Council may
include as a project the increase in the amount of any property
acquisition fund.
1953-55-245; 1956-70-7; 1961-76-4; 1963-60-6; 1968-71-13; 1970-54-16;
1974-104-32; 1978-41-18; 1993-54-68.
Expenditure for providing information to electors
245A.
When a question is submitted to the electors pursuant to the
provisions of section 184 or 245, or a by-law requiring the assent of
the electors is submitted to the electors pursuant to this Part, it
shall be lawful for Council to expend funds for the purpose of
providing the electors with information with respect to the question
or the by-law.
1964-72-6.
Conditions of borrowing
246.
The power conferred by section 245 shall not be exercisable
(a)
at any time when any portion of any debenture debt of the city which
has matured or become payable remains unpaid after a demand in writing
for payment of any portion thereof has been made;
(b)
unless the city, up to the time of the exercise of such power, has
made all levies required by law for sinking fund purposes.
1953-55-246.
Issue of debentures to repurchase or redeem earlier debentures
247.
The Council may provide for the issue of new debentures in order to
repurchase, call in or redeem any debentures or stock previously
issued by the city, subject to the requirements that the new
debentures
(a)
must be issued before the date of maturity of the debentures or stock
to be repurchased, called in or redeemed, and
(b)
must mature not later than 10 years after the date of maturity of the
debentures or stock to be repurchased, called in or redeemed.
1993-74-4.
Debt repayment fund
247A.
(1)
The Council may, by by-law, provide that all or part of any surplus
moneys be set aside in a debt repayment fund for the purpose of
providing funds in advance of requirements for annual interest
payments on outstanding debentures of the city and for the retirement
of those debentures at maturity.
(2)
If money in a debt repayment fund is invested under section 201
[investment of city funds]
, the securities and their revenues shall be held to the credit of the
fund.
(3)
Money in a debt repayment fund shall be used only for the purpose of
reducing the annual levy required to be made under section 239
[issue of securities to cover debt]
for outstanding debentures.
2002-22-28.
Debentures
How executed
248.
(1)
Debentures shall be sealed with the common seal of the city, and shall
bear the facsimile signature of the Mayor and be signed by the City
Treasurer or such other person as may be designated by by-law.
(2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1), the by-law authorizing the issuance of
debentures may provide that the common seal of the city, the signature
of the Mayor and the signature of the City Treasurer or other
designated person, may be stamped, printed, lithographed or otherwise
reproduced.
(3)
The seal of the city, when so reproduced, shall have the same force
and effect as if manually affixed, and the reproduced signature of the
Mayor or City Treasurer or other designated person shall, for all
purposes, be valid and binding on the city, notwithstanding that the
person whose signature is so reproduced has ceased to hold office
before the date of the debenture or before its date of delivery.
1953-55-248; 1985-89-3.
Issue and servicing of debentures
248A.
Where a by-law has been passed authorizing the issue of debentures,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Council may
engage a person or persons within or without Canada who may be
authorized to conduct all business connected with the issue and
servicing of the debentures and, without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, any of the following matters:
(a)
The signing and issuance of the debentures in accordance with the
by-law authorizing their issuance;
(b)
The receiving from time to time on behalf of the city of all moneys
raised by the issue of the debentures;
(c)
The registration and transfer of the debentures;
(d)
The transfer of the registration of the debentures from one place of
registry to another;
(e)
The payment of interest and the principal amount of the debentures as
the same become payable.
1973-93-10.
Coupons
249.
Debentures may have coupons for the interest attached to them, and
such coupons shall bear the facsimile signature of the Mayor and of
the City Treasurer or such other person so designated.
1953-55-249.
How payable
250.
Debentures may be made payable to bearer, or to a named person or
bearer.
1953-55-250.
Payable in full
251.
Debentures shall be valid and recoverable to the full amount,
notwithstanding their negotiation by the city at a discount.
1953-55-251.
Provision for registration
252.
Debentures may contain or have endorsed upon them a provision to the
following effect: "This debenture, or any interest therein, shall not,
after a memorandum of ownership has been endorsed thereon by the City
Treasurer, be transferable except by entry by the Treasurer or the
Treasurer's deputy in the Debenture Registry Book of the city." And in
such case the Treasurer, on the application of the owner of the
debenture, shall endorse upon the debenture a memorandum of ownership
signed by the Treasurer, and shall enter in a book to be known as the
"Debenture Registry Book" the particulars contained in such
memorandum, and the Treasurer shall also enter in such book the
particulars of every transfer of such debenture.
1953-55-252; 2022-15-73,Sch 1; 2022-15-75,Sch 3; 2022-15-76,Sch 4.
How authorized
253.
A memorandum of transfer of ownership shall be endorsed upon a
debenture only upon the written authorization of the person last
entered in such book as the owner of such debenture, which
authorization shall be retained by the City Treasurer.
1953-55-253.
Effect of endorsement
254.
After a memorandum of ownership has been endorsed as aforesaid, the
debenture shall be transferable only by entry by the City Treasurer,
or the Treasurer's deputy, in the Debenture Registry Book.
1953-55-254; 2022-15-76,Sch 4.
Provision for cancellation
255.
On the written request of the person named as owner in such memorandum
of ownership, the City Treasurer may, notwithstanding the provisions
of section 252, cancel such memorandum of ownership and entry in the
Debenture Registry Book and thereby constitute the debenture one
payable to bearer.
1953-55-255.
City not concerned with trusts
256.
Neither the city, nor any employee or agent of the city, is bound to
see to the execution of a trust, whether express, implied or
constructive, to which a city debenture or security is subject.
1984-32-8.
Lost debenture may be replaced
257.
Where a debenture is lost, destroyed, or defaced, the Council may
provide for the replacing of the same on the production of such proof
of its loss, destruction, or defacement and upon such terms as to
indemnity and otherwise as the Council may provide.
1953-55-257.
Sale of debenture
258.
The proceeds of the sale by the city of any debenture shall, save as
otherwise provided by this Act, be used only for the purpose for which
they were raised, and shall not be used for other expenditures of the
city.
1953-55-258; 1985-89-4.
Expenditure may be delayed
259.
(1)
Until such time as the proceeds from the sale of debentures are
expended, the Council may
(a)
invest the funds in accordance with section 201
[investment of city funds]
, or
(b)
temporarily use all or part of the funds for other expenditures of the
city pending the collection of current taxes each year.
(2)
As limits on the authority under subsection (1) (b),
(a)
funds may only be used under that subsection during the period from
January 1 to July 15 in each year, and
(b)
the funds shall be returned to Capital Account on or before
July 15 in the year they are so used.
2002-22-29.
Application of securities held as investments from sinking funds
260.
(1)
If money in a sinking fund account is invested under section 201
[investment of city funds]
, the securities and their revenues shall be held to the credit of the
applicable sinking fund account.
(2)
If more than one sinking fund account is involved, the securities and
revenues referred to in subsection (1) shall be allocated in
proportion to the money from the accounts used for the investment.
2002-22-29.
Sinking fund accounts
261.
It shall be lawful to keep a consolidated account of the accumulated
instalments and interest on all debenture debts, but in any case the
accounting records shall at all times exhibit the accumulated reserve
with respect to every separate debenture debt.
1953-55-261.
Provision for transfer of surplus to sinking fund
262.
The Council may provide that any surplus moneys in the hands of the
City Treasurer, not appropriated to any specific purpose, shall be
transferred to the sinking fund in respect of any debenture by-law,
and shall be subject to investment accordingly.
1953-55-262.
Borrowing pending collection of real-property taxes
263.
The Council, without the assent of the electors, may by by-law
authorize the Director of Finance or some other person to borrow on
behalf of the city for such period as Council may deem fit by way of
promissory note or overdraft such sum of money as Council may deem
necessary to meet the lawful expenditures of the city pending the
collection of real-property taxes and amounts receivable from other
governments. In any such by-law, the Council may provide for the
hypothecation, subject to any prior charge thereon, to the lender, of
any amounts receivable from other governments and the whole or any
part of the real-property taxes then remaining unpaid, together with
the whole or part of the real-property taxes to be levied for the year
in which the by-law is passed. Provided, however, that if the by-law
is passed before the passing of the rating by-law, the amount of the
current taxes that may be hypothecated shall be not more than
seventy-five per centum of the real-property taxes levied in the next
preceding year.
1953-55-263; 1970-54-17.
Borrowing pending sale of debentures
264.
Council, without the assent of the electors, may, by by-law, authorize
the Director of Finance or some other person to borrow on behalf of
the city by way of promissory note or overdraft such sum of money as
Council may deem necessary to meet the lawful expenditures of the city
pending the sale of debentures. In any such by-law the Council may
provide for the hypothecation to the lender of the proceeds of such
debentures for the repayment of the sum borrowed and interest thereon.
1953-55-264; 1970-54-17.
Repealed
265.
[Repealed 1970-54-17.]
Repealed
266-
267A.
[Repealed 1993-54-69.]
Repealed
268.
[Repealed 1993-54-69.]
Contents
|
Preamble
|
Part I
|
Part II
|
Part III
|
Part IV
|
Part V |
Part VI
|
Part VII
|
Part VIII
|
Part IX
|
Part X
|
Part XI
|
Part XII
|
Part XIII
|
Part XIV
|
Part XV
|
Part XVI
|
Part XVII
|
Part XVIII
|
Part XIX
|
Part XX
|
Part XXI
|
Part XXII
|
Part XXIII
|
Part XXIV
|
Part XXIV-A
|
Part XXIV-B
|
Part XXV
|
Part XXVI
|
Part XXVII
|
Part XXVIII
|
Part XXIX
|
Part XXX
|
Part XXXI
