B.C. Reg. 107/2008
British Columbia Securities Commission
Deposited May 26, 2008
effective  June 1, 2008
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to Point in Time
Securities Act
BC Instrument 22-502
Registration by the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 226/2009, September 28, 2009]
Interpretation
1
In this Instrument:
"Act"
means the
Securities Act
;
"permitted individual"
has the same meaning as in National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
;
"prescribed fee"
means the appropriate fee set out in section 22 of the Securities
Regulation.
Delegation of powers and duties of the Executive Director
2
Pursuant to section 184 (2) (e) to (i) of the Act, the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada may exercise the powers
conferred, and perform the duties imposed, by sections 4 to 6.
Applications to be made to IIROC
3
For registration in a category listed below, or reinstatement of or
amendment to registration in a category listed below, the applicant
must submit the application to the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada:
(a)
an investment dealer,
(b)
the chief compliance officer of an investment dealer,
(c)
a dealing representative of an investment dealer;
(d)
an ultimate designated person of an investment dealer.
[en. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 1.]
Powers and duties under sections 35 and 36 of the Act
4
(1)
On application by an applicant that is a member of the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada, and on payment of the
prescribed fee, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada may,
(a)
subject to subsection (2), register an investment dealer, chief
compliance officer, ultimate designated person or dealing
representative of an investment dealer if the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada considers the applicant to be
suitable for registration in the capacity applied for,
(b)
subject to subsection (3) refuse to grant a registration referred to
in paragraph (a) if the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada considers the applicant to be unsuitable for registration,
(c)
reinstate or amend a registration referred to in paragraph (a), and
(d)
subject to subsection (3), restrict a registration under paragraph
(a), or a reinstatement or amendment of registration under paragraph
(c), by imposing conditions on the registration, including but not
limited to conditions restricting
(i)
the duration of registration, and
(ii)
the registration to trades in specified securities or exchange
contracts or to a specified class of securities or class of exchange
contracts.
(2)
Before exercising a power under subsection (1) (a), the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada must satisfy itself that
the applicant has followed the proficiency and qualification
requirements set out in the bylaws, rules or other regulatory
instruments or policies established by the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada and that those bylaws, rules or
other regulatory instruments or policies have been
(a)
filed with the commission before they take effect, and
(b)
subject to subsection (3), not objected to by the commission.
(3)
If the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada files a
bylaw, rule or other regulatory instrument or policy in accordance
with subsection (2) (a) and the commission does not give a written
notice of objection within 30 days of filing, the bylaw, rule or other
regulatory instrument or policy is deemed to have not been objected to
by the commission.
(4)
The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada must not
exercise a power under subsection (1) (b) or (d) without giving the
applicant an opportunity to be heard.
[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 2.]
Repealed
5
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 3.]
Powers under section 38 of the Act
6
The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada, with
respect to its members, may exercise the executive director's powers
under section 38 of the Act.
Registration information filings
7
A person within any of the following categories must submit the
information required by National Instrument 33-109
Registration Information
to the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada:
(a)
an investment dealer submitting information about a permitted
individual;
(b)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 4 (a).]
(c)
an investment dealer;
(d)
a dealing representative of an investment dealer; or
(e)
a chief compliance officer or an ultimate designated person of an
investment dealer.
(f)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 4 (d).]
[am. B.C. Reg. 226/2009, Sch. E, s. 4.]
Records
8
(1)
The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada must keep
for at least 7 years
(a)
every application it receives under this instrument,
(b)
records of every decision it makes under this instrument about
registration including any reasons the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada provides to an applicant, and
(c)
every notice a dealer files under section 8.
(2)
The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada must permit
the public to inspect at the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada's place of business any document required to be
kept under subsection (1), except applications it receives under
section 3 and any reasons for refusal of registration given to an
applicant under section 4 (1) (b).
[Provisions of the
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
section 184]
