B.C. Reg. 173/67
O.C. 2263/67
This consolidation is current to January 30, 2024.
See the
Cumulative B.C. Regulations Bulletin 2024
for amendments effective after January 30, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act
British Columbia Egg Marketing Scheme, 1967
[Last amended March 30, 2022 by B.C. Reg. 76/2022]
Part 1
Division 1
Title
1
This scheme shall be known as the "British Columbia Egg Marketing
Scheme, 1967".
Definitions
2
In this Part:
"agency"
means the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency established by the Canadian
Egg Marketing Agency Proclamation issued pursuant to the
Farm Products Agencies Act
(Canada);
"board"
means the British Columbia Egg Marketing Board;
"quota"
means the number of dozens of eggs that an egg producer is entitled to
market in intraprovincial trade or to have marketed on the producer's
behalf by the board in intraprovincial trade, during a specified
period of time;
"quota system"
means a system whereby egg producers are assigned quotas by the board
thus enabling the board to fix and determine the quantity, if any, in
which eggs or any variety, class or grade thereof may be marketed in
intraprovincial trade by each egg producer and by all egg producers.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74; am. B.C. Reg. 29/2000.]
Division 2 — Quota System
Board to establish quota
3
The board shall, on the coming into force of this Part, establish by
order or regulation a quota system in order to assign quotas to all
members of classes of producers in the Province in such manner that
the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and authorized
to be marketed in intraprovincial trade in the year 1973, when taken
together with the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province
and authorized to be marketed in interprovincial and export trade in
the same year, pursuant to quotas assigned by the agency and the
number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and anticipated to
be marketed in the same year, other than as authorized by a quota
assigned by the agency or by the board, will equal the number of
dozens of eggs set out in section 4 of this Part.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Number of dozens of eggs for Province
4
For the purposes of section 3 of this Part the number of dozens of
eggs set out in this section for the Province is the number of dozens
set out in Column 2 of an item of the following table in respect
of the Province as set out in Column 1 of that item, such number
of dozens representing the percentage set out in Column 3 of that
item.
Table
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
British Columbia
57 250 000
12.055%
Alberta
41 344 000
8.704%
Saskatchewan
22 611 000
4.760%
Manitoba
54 189 000
11.408%
Ontario
181 267 000
38.161%
Quebec
78 647 000
16.556%
New Brunswick
8 683 000
1.828%
Nova Scotia
19 504 000
4.106%
Prince Edward Island
3 028 000
0.637%
Newfoundland
8 477 000
1.785%
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Number not to be increased or decreased
5
(1)
No order or regulation shall be made where the effect thereof would be
to increase the aggregate of
(a)
the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and authorized
by quotas assigned by the board and by the agency to be marketed in
intraprovincial, interprovincial and export trade, and
(b)
the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and anticipated
to be marketed in intraprovincial, interprovincial and export trade
other than as authorized by quotas assigned by the board and by the
agency
to a number that exceeds, on a yearly basis, the number of dozens of
eggs set out in section 4 of this Part for the Province unless the
board has taken into account
(c)
the principle of comparative advantage of production in respect of
each province,
(d)
any variation in the size of the market for eggs,
(e)
any failures by egg producers in the Province or other provinces to
market the number of dozens of eggs authorized to be marketed,
(f)
the feasibility of increased production in each province to be
marketed, and
(g)
comparative transportation costs to market areas from alternative
sources of production and the agency is making a similar order or
regulation.
(2)
No order or regulation shall be made where the effect thereof would be
to decrease the aggregate of
(a)
the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and authorized
by quotas assigned by the board and by the agency to be marketed in
intraprovincial, interprovincial and export trade, and
(b)
the number of dozens of eggs produced in the Province and anticipated
to be marketed in intraprovincial, interprovincial and export trade
other than as authorized by quotas assigned by the board and by the
agency
to a number that, on a yearly basis, is less than the number of dozens
of eggs set out in section 4 of this Part for the Province unless at
the same time the number of dozens of eggs produced in each province
and so authorized to be marketed in intraprovincial, interprovincial
and export trade is decreased proportionately.
(3)
When the agency has made an order or regulation pursuant to provisions
of a marketing plan similar to the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2), the board shall make a similar order or regulation.
(4)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 409/80, s. 2.]
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74; am. B.C. Regs. 316/76; 409/80, s. 2.]
Board may set price of excess eggs
6
The board may require each egg producer to whom a quota is assigned,
as a condition of the assignment thereof, to make available to the
board or its agent all eggs produced by the egg producer and available
to be marketed in excess of the quota assigned to the egg producer at
a price not exceeding the difference, if any, between the price
realized by the board or its agent on the marketing of such eggs and
its expenses related to such marketing.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74; am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, s. 8.]
Board may market eggs
7
(1)
The board may market eggs made available to it or its agent on an
individual or collective basis and may pool the receipts from the
marketing thereof and deduct from the pool the expenses incurred by it
or by its agent in marketing such eggs before any payment is made to
the producers.
(2)
The board shall not market any quantity of the products made available
to it in excess of the number of eggs referred to in sections 3
and 4 or as modified pursuant to section 5 of this Part, without
prior consultation with the agency.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Board to administer orders and regulations
8
The board shall, with the concurrence of the agency, administer on its
behalf all orders and regulations made by it for the purpose of
establishing and implementing a quota system or any such orders or
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the Canadian Egg
Marketing Agency Proclamation and similar provisions of this Part.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Board to make, approve and implement orders and regulations
9
The board shall make, approve and implement any order or regulation
necessary to reflect any provisions of this Part.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Division 3 — Licences
Board to give agency evidence of registration or licensing system
10
The board shall make available to the agency any document or extract
of documents establishing the registration or licensing of producers,
when any such system is in force.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Division 4 — Levies
Board to collect levies for agency
11
The board shall, with the concurrence of the agency, collect on its
behalf any levies imposed by the agency.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Division 5 — Sales Verification
Board to monitor sales
12
(1)
The board shall make regulations and orders requiring producers,
graders, graders-producers, dealers, wholesalers and processors to
give all the information necessary to monitor sales.
(2)
The board shall establish a verification system of sales.
(3)
The board shall provide all information obtained from the
implementation of the system referred to in subsection (2) to the
agency when requested.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Division 6 — General
Board to cooperate with agency
13
The board shall take all reasonable steps to promote a high degree of
cooperation between itself and the agency and, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, shall
(a)
make available to the agency the records, minutes and decisions of the
board in relation to any matter that is of concern to the agency,
(b)
allow an officer or employee of the agency who is designated by the
agency for such purpose to attend meetings of the board at which any
matter that is of concern to the agency is likely to be discussed and
for such purpose shall give notice of all such meetings to the officer
or employee so designated, and
(c)
give notice of each order or regulation that it proposes to make to
the agency that is likely to be affected in its operations by the
enactment of the order or regulation.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Application of this Part
14
The authorities and powers referred to in sections 16, 17, 33, 34, 35
and 37 of Part 2 of the British Columbia Egg Marketing Scheme, 1967
are restricted by and subject to the provisions of this Part.
[en. B.C. Reg. 166/74.]
Part 2
Division 1 — Interpretation
Definitions
15
In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Act"
means the
Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act
and all amendments thereto;
"area to which the scheme relates"
means all of the Province of British Columbia;
"board"
means the British Columbia Egg Marketing Board;
"consumer"
means a person who buys eggs or layers for use by the person or the
person's household and not for resale in any form;
"egg production unit"
means the land and buildings comprising a poultry farm at which a
registered producer keeps layers owned by the registered producer and
used for the purpose of producing eggs to be marketed in accordance
with marketing quota or marketing permit;
"Interior"
means that part of the Province which excludes those areas defined as
the Lower Mainland and Vancouver Island;
"layer"
as applied to chickens means laying hens and layers and any class of
female chicken hatched for the purposes of egg production;
"Lower Mainland"
means that part of the Province bounded as follows: Commencing at the
intersection of the 49th parallel of latitude with the 121st meridian
of longitude, thence due north to the 50th parallel of latitude,
thence due west to the 123rd meridian of longitude, thence due north
to the 51st parallel of latitude, thence due west to the western
boundary of the Province, thence southerly and easterly along the
western and southern boundaries of the Province to the point of
commencement, but excluding Vancouver Island and all the other islands
lying along the coast of the Province;
"marketing"
includes producing, buying, selling, disposing of and offering for
sale or other disposition;
"order"
means the standing order of the British Columbia Egg Marketing Board;
"permit"
means permission given in writing by the board to any person with
regard to the marketing of the regulated product;
"person"
includes any partnership, firm or corporation;
"processor"
means any person who packs or changes the nature of the regulated
product by mechanical means or otherwise, and markets, offers for
sale, sells, stores or transports the packed, processed or
manufactured product;
"producer-vendor"
means any grower who produces and markets, offers for sale, sells,
stores or transports all or any portion of the regulated product grown
by the grower but does not process, market, offer for sale, sell,
store or transport the regulated product grown by any other person;
"quota"
means any marketing quota issued to a registered producer by the
board;
"registered producer"
means any person owning layers in the area to which the scheme
relates, and who is registered under this scheme;
"regulated product"
means layers and all classes of eggs of the domestic hen, including
eggs wholly or partly manufactured or processed;
"trucker"
means any person to whom this scheme applies under section 17 who
transports the regulated product;
"Vancouver Island"
means that part of the Province consisting of Vancouver Island and all
the other islands lying along the coast of the Province;
"vehicle"
includes any motor vehicle, wagon, railway car, ship, boat or other
thing in which the regulated product can be transported.
[am. B.C. Regs. 285/70, ss. (3) and (4); 111/72; 297/72, ss. (1) to
(5); 316/76; 86/79, s. 3; 65/2005; 76/2022, ss. 8 and 11.]
Division 2 — Purpose and Application
Purpose of scheme
16
The purpose and intent of this scheme is to provide for the effective
promotion, control and regulation of the production, transportation,
packing, storage and marketing of the regulated product within the
Province, including the prohibition of such production,
transportation, packing, storage and marketing in whole or in part.
[am. B.C. Regs. 297/72, s. (6); 86/79, s. 5.]
Application of scheme
17
The scheme shall apply to all persons who produce, transport, pack,
store or market the regulated product but in no way applies to a
consumer who acquires the regulated product from a producer.
[am. B.C. Regs. 297/72, s. (7); 86/79, s. 4.]
Division 3 — Name and Constitution of the Board
Board constituted
18
(1)
The board consists of the following:
(a)
a chair appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council;
(b)
4 members who are registered producers, elected by the registered
producers.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), the member serving as chair when this
regulation comes into force continues to hold that office until the
Lieutenant Governor in Council makes an appointment under subsection
(1) (a).
[en. B.C. Reg. 93/2004, s. 1.]
Rules for election of board members
18.1
(1)
The board must establish and publish rules and procedures for the
election of elected board members.
(2)
The British Columbia Farm Industry Review Board must approve the rules
and procedures referred to in subsection (1) before those rules take
effect.
[en. B.C. Reg. 93/2004, s. 2.]
Repealed
18.2-18.4
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 93/2004, s. 3.]
Voting, pay and benefits
18.5
(1)
The chair must cast a second deciding vote in any case where the
members are equally divided on a matter.
(2)
Remuneration and employment benefits, if any, of the chair and other
members of the board shall be paid from monies collected by the board
under the scheme.
(3)
The board may fix the remuneration and employment benefits of the
employees of the board.
(4)
The registered producers at a general meeting of the registered
producers may fix the remuneration and employment benefits, if any, of
the chair and other members of the board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 37/96, s. 1.]
General meeting and auditor
18.6
(1)
The board must, at least once in every year, hold a general meeting of
the registered producers and give the registered producers not less
than 21 days notice of the time and place of the general meeting.
(2)
The registered producers present at the general meeting must appoint a
person, who meets the requirements of section 112 of the
Societies Act
, as auditor for the purpose of auditing the books of account and
affairs of the board.
[en. B.C. Reg. 37/96, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 211/2015, s. 7.]
Spent
19
Spent.
Repealed
20-31
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 261/92, s. 2.]
Register of producers
32
The board shall keep at its head office a register of producers
containing names, addresses and quotas of all producers who are
registered under the scheme. Such record shall be amended from time to
time by the addition thereto of the names and addresses of all
producers who are entitled to be registered and by the deletion
therefrom of the names, addresses and quotas of producers who are not
entitled to be registered.
Register available for inspection
33
The register of producers shall be open for inspection to any
registered producer during regular business hours, and an up-to-date
copy of the register of producers shall be sent to any registered
producer on request.
Warning before removal from register
34
Before the name of any registered producer can be removed from the
register of producers, the board shall give that producer a warning in
writing by registered mail that there is an infraction of the
regulations of the scheme or of the orders of the board. If the
infraction continues, the board shall give that producer 2 weeks
notice in writing, by registered mail, of its intention to remove that
producer's name from the register of producers. Such notice shall
include the date, time and place of hearing before the board, at which
the registered producer shall be entitled to state that producer's
case. If the registered producer so chooses, that producer may
institute legal proceedings, and provided that proof that such
proceedings have been instituted is submitted to the board, that
producer's name shall be retained in the register of producers and
that producer's licence shall remain in effect until a ruling has been
obtained from the courts.
[am. B.C. Reg. 76/2022, ss. 6 and 7.]
Orders of the board
35
All orders of the board shall be in writing, signed on behalf of the
board by a member of the board, and copies of all such orders shall be
kept in the head office of the board. Any registered producer shall
have the right of access to copies of all orders in the head office of
the board during normal business hours.
Division 3.1 — Egg Industry Advisory Committee
Composition and role of committee
36
(1)
The board must establish an Egg Industry Advisory Committee composed
of
(a)
3 producers appointed by the board after consultation with The British
Columbia Egg Producers Association,
(b)
3 processors appointed by the board after consultation with the
British Columbia Egg Processors Council, and
(c)
further persons appointed by the board to broaden the scope of
experience available to the committee in its deliberations.
(2)
The role of the committee is to advise the board, on the request of
the board or on the initiative of the committee, concerning any matter
relating to the pricing or production decisions the board has made or
may make.
(3)
The board must consult with the committee and consider the committee's
advice before the board makes any decision relating to pricing or
production.
[en. B.C. Reg. 37/96, s. 2.]
Division 4 — Authority of the Board
Authority of board
37
The board shall have authority within the Province to promote,
regulate and control the production, transportation, packing, storing
and marketing, or any of them, of the regulated product, including the
prohibition of such production, transportation, packing, storing and
marketing, or any of them, in whole or in part, and without limiting
the generality of the foregoing shall have the following authority:
(a)
to regulate the time and place at which, and to designate the agency
through which, the regulated product shall be produced, packed, stored
or marketed; to determine the manner of distribution, the quality,
grade or class of the regulated product that shall be transported,
produced, packed, stored or marketed by any person at any time; to
prohibit the production, transportation, packing, storage or marketing
of any grade, quality or class of any regulated product; and to
determine the charges that may be made by the board for its services;
(b)
to institute a central marketing agency or agencies;
(c)
to issue quotas to registered producers as is deemed necessary, such
quotas to remain at all times the property of the board and, subject
to prior approval of the Provincial board, to vary such quotas and
prescribe the terms and conditions upon which they shall be issued or
transferred, provided that the board shall not at any time issue to
any registered producer a quota in excess of 5% of the total of all
such quotas issued;
(c.1)
to issue permits upon such terms and conditions as to issuance,
transfer and revocation as is deemed necessary;
(d)
to revoke or reduce in whole or in part unused quotas or portions of
quotas, and to reissue such quotas in whole or in part as the board
may deem proper;
(e)
to exempt from any determination or order any person or class of
persons engaged in the transportation, production, packing, storing or
marketing of the regulated product or any class, variety or grade
thereof;
(f)
to require any or all persons engaged in the production,
transportation, packing, storing or marketing of the regulated product
to register with and obtain licences from the board;
(g)
to fix and collect yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly licence
fees from any or all persons producing, transporting, packing, storing
or marketing the regulated product; and for this purpose to classify
such persons into groups and fix licence fees payable by the members
of the different groups in different amounts, to fix and collect from
such persons fees for services rendered or to be rendered by the
board, and to recover such licence and other fees by suit in any court
of competent jurisdiction;
(h)
to cancel any licence or permit for violation of any provision of the
scheme or of any order of the board or of the regulations;
(i)
to require full information relating to the production,
transportation, packing, storing and marketing of the regulated
product from all persons engaged therein, and to require periodic
returns to be made by such persons, and to inspect the books and
premises of such persons;
(j)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 38/96, s. (a).]
(j.1)
to fix the price or prices paid to the registered producer for all
classes or categories of eggs, with power to fix different prices for
different areas of the Province;
(k)
to establish and conduct, or to authorize any marketing agency
approved by the board under the scheme to conduct, a pool or pools for
the distribution of proceeds received from the sale of the regulated
product, after deducting all necessary and proper disbursements,
expenses and charges, in such manner that each person receives a share
of the net proceeds in relation to the amount, variety, size, grade
and class of the regulated product delivered by the person, and to
make payments in respect thereof until the total net proceeds are
distributed;
(k.1)
to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire such property, real and
personal, as it may require for its purposes, and to sell or otherwise
dispose of property no longer required for its purposes; to borrow
money for the purpose of financing the acquisition of property and to
give security for such borrowings upon the property of the board;
(l)
to require the person in charge of any vehicle in which the regulated
product could be transported to permit any properly identified member
or employee of the board to search the vehicle;
(m)
to seize and dispose of any of the regulated product kept,
transported, processed, packed, stored or marketed in violation of any
order of the board;
(n)
to use any moneys received by the board to carry out the purposes of
the scheme and to pay the expenses of the board;
(o)
to make such orders, rules and regulations as are deemed by the board
necessary or advisable to promote, control and regulate effectively
the production, transportation, packing, storage or marketing of the
regulated product and to amend or revoke the same;
(p)
to refuse, for a period of 12 months, to reissue any licence to any
person, partnership or corporation whose licence was previously
cancelled by the board;
(q)
to promote the egg industry by advertising, in such manner as may seem
advisable, and by compiling, publishing, distributing and furnishing
information with respect thereto;
(r)
to delegate its authority to such extent and in such manner as the
board may from time to time deem necessary or advisable for the proper
operation of the scheme; provided that this paragraph shall not permit
the delegation by the board of the authorities contained in paragraphs
(f), (g), (h) and (p) of this section;
(s)
to exercise any authority or function conferred upon it under the
Farm Products Agencies Act
(Canada) or by the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency established pursuant
to the
Farm Products Agencies Act
(Canada);
(t)
to cooperate with the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency to bring about
parallel coordination of this scheme and the Federal Marketing Plan
established by the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency;
(u)
to grant authority to the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency established
pursuant to the
Farm Products Agencies Act
(Canada) to perform on the board's behalf any power or function
relating to intraprovincial trade that the board may perform;
(v)
to exercise the powers set out in section 11 (1) (o) and (r) through
(v) of the Act.
[am. B.C. Regs. 297/72, ss. (9) to (19); 166/74, s. 14; 316/76;
306/77; 90/78; 86/79, ss. 5, 6; 409/80, s. 3; 157/86; 38/96, ss. (a)
and (b); 93/2004, s. 4; 76/2022, s. 8.]
Board must conduct review
38
(1)
If requested to do so by the British Columbia Farm Industry Review
Board, the board must
(a)
conduct a review of the continued appropriateness and adequacy of the
provisions of section 37, and
(b)
report the conclusions of that review to the British Columbia Farm
Industry Review Board.
(2)
A review under subsection (1) must be conducted by the board in
consultation with the Egg Industry Advisory Committee, the British
Columbia Farm Industry Review Board and the minister's ministry.
[en. B.C. Reg. 37/96, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 350/2003, s. (c); 93/2004,
s. 5; 4/2010, s. 3.]
Schedule A
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 38/96, s. (c).]
[Provisions of the
Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 330, s. 22.]
