B.c. reg. 71/2019 O.c. 158/2019 Deposited april 1, 2019 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Utilities commission act Direction to the british columbia Utilities commission respecting The biomass energy program Definitions
1 In this direction:
"act" Means the Utilities commission act ; "biomass contract" Means
(a) A contract in respect of a biomass facility that the authority enters Into between april 1, 2019 and december 31, 2021, if the contract does One or both of the following:
(i) Establishes the terms and conditions under which electricity generated At the biomass facility is sold to the authority; (ii) Establishes the terms and conditions under which electricity generated At the biomass facility is used to supply a portion of a customer's Load or to reduce a portion of a customer's electricity purchases, and (b) An amendment to a contract referred to in paragraph (a); "biomass facility" Means the following facilities:
(a) Armstrong wood waste co-generation; (b) Nwe williams lake wood waste; (c) Skookumchuck power; (d) Pgp bio energy; (e) Celgar green energy; (f) Howe sound green energy; (g) Powell river generation.
Application
2 This direction is issued to the commission under section 3 of the act.
Biomass contracts 3 The commission may not exercise its powers under section 71 (1) (b) or (3) of the act respecting applicable biomass contracts.
Rates
4 In setting rates for the authority, the commission may not disallow For any reason the recovery in rates of the authority's costs with Respect to a biomass contract.
Tariff
5 (1) The commission must set as a rate the rate schedule that is attached To this direction as appendix 1 within 10 days of receiving an Application from the authority for the commission to do so.
(2) The commission may not cancel, suspend or amend the rate set under Subsection (1), except on application by the authority.
Appendix 1
[provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Utilities commission act , r.s.b.c. 1996, c. 473, s. 3]