View complete regulation B.c. reg. 180/90 O.c. 867/90 Deposited june 8, 1990 Effective august 1, 1990 This consolidation is current to march 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (pdf) Link to point in time Park act Park, conservancy and Recreation area regulation [last amended july 1, 2022 by b.c. reg. 123/2022] Division 1 — interpretation Interpretation
1 (1) In this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
"act" Means the Park act ; "backcountry" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area that is not Frontcountry;
"camp" Means to occupy a campsite, to set up a tent or other shelter or to Remain overnight; "campground" Means one or more campsites managed by an operator or the ministry; "campsite" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area developed by The ministry to accommodate persons who wish to camp; "canada" Does not include a corporation (a) That is, under an enactment of canada, an agent of her majesty in Right of canada, (b) Of which the government of canada owns, directly or indirectly, more Than 50% of the issued voting shares, or (c) That is controlled by the government of canada, and for the purpose of This definition a corporation is controlled by the government of Canada when a majority of the members of the corporation or of its Board of directors or board of management consists of either or both Of the following:
(i) Persons appointed as members by the governor in council, by a minister Of the government of canada or by an enactment of canada; (ii) Public officers acting as such; "cycle" Means a device having any number of wheels that is propelled by human Power and on which a person may ride; "day use area" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area managed by an Operator or the ministry for picnicking and other daytime activities; "designated long-stay campsite" Means a campsite in a park, conservancy or recreation area that has Been designated as a campsite where a person may camp for more than 14 Days in a calendar year; "dock" Means a structure connected to dry land and used for the purposes of Mooring a vessel; "domestic animal" Means a vertebrate that has been domesticated; "firearm" Includes a rifle, shotgun, handgun, spring gun or any device that Propels a projectile by means of an explosion, compressed gas or Spring, but does not include a longbow or crossbow; "frontcountry" Means an area in a park, conservancy or recreation area within one Kilometre of either side of the centreline of a park road or a Highway;
"group" Means 15 or more persons; "guide" Means a person who, for compensation or reward received or promised, Accompanies, assists or provides a service to another person; "hunt" Means to shoot at, attract, search for, chase, pursue, follow after or On the trail of, stalk or lie in wait for wildlife, or to attempt to Do any of those things, whether or not the wildlife is then or Subsequently wounded, killed or captured, (a) With the intention to capture the wildlife, or (b) While in possession of a firearm or other weapon; "litter" Means
(a) Garbage, refuse, rubbish or trash of any kind, including a container, Package, bottle or can, or any part thereof, or (b) Any abandoned or discarded article, product or item of manufacture, But does not include wastes of the primary processes of mining, Logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing; "operator" Means a person authorized by a park use permit or resource use permit To operate facilities in any part of a park, conservancy or recreation Area;
"park" Includes any land, trail, path or waterway comprised in an order under Section 6 (1) (a) to (g) of the act; "park road" Means a road in a park, conservancy or recreation area that is Designed and developed for the passage or parking of motor vehicles Licensed under the Motor vehicle act ; "party" Means up to 8 persons, of whom at least one, but no more than 4, are 16 years old or older, and who may have with them (a) One recreational vehicle, (b) One non-recreational vehicle, or (c) One non-recreational vehicle and one legally towed trailer that is not A trailer primarily designed as temporary living quarters for Recreational or travel use; "province" Does not include a corporation (a) That is, under an act, an agent of the crown, (b) Of which the government owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of The issued voting shares, or (c) That is controlled by the government, and for the purpose of this Definition a corporation is controlled by the government when a Majority of the members of the corporation or of its board of Directors or board of management consists of either or both of the Following:
(i) Persons appointed as members by the lieutenant governor in council, by A minister or by an act; (ii) Public officers acting as such; "recreational vehicle" Means a self-propelled vehicle or a trailer, primarily designed as Temporary living quarters for recreational or travel use; "snowmobile" Means a snowmobile as defined in the snowmobile regulation, b.c. reg.
65/72; "trap" Means to trap, snare, net or use any other device to take or capture Wildlife;
"vessel" Means a boat, canoe, kayak or other craft used, or capable of being Used, for navigation on water; "waste" Means waste as defined in the Environmental management act ; "wildlife" Means raptors, threatened species, endangered species, game or other Species of vertebrates prescribed as wildlife under the Wildlife act ; "youth group" Means a group of 12 or more persons (a) Undertaking a camping trip or day use trip organized for the group by A school, not-for-profit society or recreational centre operated by a Municipality or regional district for the benefit of the members of The group who are 18 years of age or younger, and (b) Supervised by an adult representative of the school, not-for-profit Society or recreational centre.
[am. b.c. regs. 406/90; 196/91; 195/93, s. 1; 249/98, s. 1; 350/2000, S. 1; 109/2002, s. 1; 193/2005, app. a, s. 1; 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 9; 141/2009, sch. s. 2.] Application
2 This regulation does not apply to class c parks.
Division 2 — permits Removal of property and restoration of area 3 (1) Except as otherwise provided in a park use permit or resource use Permit, every person must, within the 30 day period following (a) The expiry or other termination of a park use permit or resource use Permit, or (b) Receipt of a written order from a park officer, Remove all personal property and dispose of all structures, Improvements and works of any nature in a park, conservancy or Recreation area and restore, repair or rehabilitate the area as nearly As possible to its natural condition, or restore, repair or Rehabilitate the area to the satisfaction of the park officer issuing The order.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to structures, improvements and works That are the property of the province.
(3) If a person fails to remove personal property or dispose of Structures, improvements or works as required by subsection (1), a Park officer may remove the personal property and dispose of the Structures, improvements or works.
(4) If a person fails to restore, repair or rehabilitate an area as Required by subsection (1), a park officer may restore, repair or Rehabilitate the area as the park officer considers necessary.
(5) Any expense incurred by the province under subsection (3) or (4) is a Debt owing the province by the person who failed to comply with Subsection (1).
(6) A debt incurred under this section may be retained from any security Which the province requires to be maintained by a person as a Condition of a park use permit or resource use permit.
(7) In the absence of a sufficient security under subsection (6) to Extinguish a debt incurred under this section, the debt or remaining Debt is recoverable at suit of the province in any court of competent Jurisdiction.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) and (c).] Permits for guiding required 4 A person must not act as a guide or offer services as a guide in a Park, conservancy or recreation area without (a) A valid park use permit or resource use permit issued for that Purpose, and (b) A licence or permit to guide if required by or under the Wildlife act .
[am. b.c. regs. 25/2005, sch. s. 1; 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, Sch. s. 1 (d).] Permits for trapping required 5 A person must not trap or take any fur bearing animal in a park, Conservancy or recreation area without (a) A valid park use permit or resource use permit issued for that Purpose, and (b) A licence or permit to trap issued under the Wildlife act .
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1.] Division 3 — public conduct and enforcement Repealed
6 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 193/2005, app. a, s. 2.] Must give information 7 Every person who enters or is in a park, conservancy or recreation Area must, at the request of a park officer or park ranger, provide Information about any matter pertaining to the use or occupancy of the Park, conservancy or recreation area including that person's correct Name, address, destination and proposed activities and conduct in the Park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Disturbance prohibited 8 (1) A person must not create or cause a deliberate or unnecessary Disturbance in a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not, between the Hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day, operate or permit Another person to operate any device that produces sound at a level Which disturbs the peace and quiet of (a) An occupant of another campsite, or (b) Persons in the park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Eviction
9 (1) A park ranger may order a person who does anything contrary to this Regulation to leave a park, conservancy or recreation area, or a Specified portion of it, within a period of time specified by the park Ranger, and every person so ordered must comply with the order and Leave the park, conservancy or recreation area, or the specified Portion of it, within that specified period of time.
(2) If no period of time is specified in an order issued under subsection (1), the order is effective immediately.
(3) The order issued under subsection (1) must specify the period of time During which the order is to remain in effect, but in no case may it Remain in effect for more than 72 hours from the time the order is Issued.
(4) A park ranger may use reasonable force to remove a person from the Park, conservancy or recreation area, or the specified portion of it, If that person fails to comply with an order under subsection (1).
(5) A person who is ordered to leave the park, conservancy or recreation Area is not entitled to a refund of any fee which may have been paid By the party or group of which that person is a member.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) to (c).] Signs
10 (1) A park officer may erect a sign or other device specifying an area in Which specific activities are permitted, prohibited or restricted in a Park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Every person must observe and obey every prohibition and restriction Announced by the sign or other device erected under subsection (1).
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a).] Fires
11 (1) A person must not start or maintain a fire in a park, conservancy or Recreation area in (a) A campground, (b) Frontcountry, or (c) Backcountry that is less than 2 000 hectares in size, Unless the fire is (d) In a fireplace provided by the ministry, and (e) Not more than 0.5 metres in diameter and 0.5 metres in height.
(2) A person must not use vegetation from a campground or from Frontcountry to start or maintain a fire except (a) Vegetation that is specifically provided as firewood by the ministry Or an operator, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(3) A person must not use vegetation from backcountry to start or maintain A fire except vegetation that is dead and lying on the ground.
(4) A person who starts or maintains a fire must extinguish the fire when That person leaves the campground, frontcountry or backcountry.
(5) A park officer may, at any time, (a) Prohibit a fire in a park, conservancy or recreation area, (b) Extinguish a fire, or (c) Require that a fire be contained within a device approved by the park Officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a) and (d).] Tobacco and e-cigarettes 11.1 (1) In this section, "activated e-cigarette" , "e-cigarette" And
"tobacco" Have the same meaning as in the Tobacco and vapour products control act .
(2) A person must not smoke tobacco, hold lighted tobacco, use an E-cigarette or hold an activated e-cigarette in a park, conservancy or Recreation area except (a) In an area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[en. b.c. reg. 210/2018, app. 1.] Snow sliding devices 12 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not use or Operate any snow sliding device in mount seymour park, cypress park or E.c. manning park unless (a) In an area specifically designated and posted for such use, and (b) On a snow sliding device approved by a park officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Responsibility for action of minors 13 A parent, guardian, custodian or person in charge of a minor must not Permit the minor to do anything that is prohibited by the act or this Regulation.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (f).] Exemption from this regulation 14 A person who is a peace officer, park officer or park ranger is exempt From this regulation while acting in that capacity.
Obstruction of a park officer or park ranger 15 A person must not willfully obstruct a park officer or park ranger Acting in that capacity.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Bowron lake park special regulation 16 Except on bowron lake or as authorized by a park officer, not more Than 6 persons may travel together on the circuit of lakes in bowron Lake park.
Storage of equipment and supplies 17 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not store, cache Or leave equipment or supplies in a park, conservancy or recreation Area for a period of more than 14 days in a calendar year.
(2) A person must not store, cache or leave equipment or supplies in a Campground or day use area except (a) In the campsite at which that person is registered, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Horses prohibited 18 A person must not have a horse or other draught or riding animal in a Park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Control of domestic animals 19 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in any part of a park, conservancy Or recreation area that is (a) A beach within a campground or day use area, (b) A public building or structure, or (c) An area in which domestic animals are prohibited by a sign or other Device.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a domestic animal that is used to Guide a blind person.
(3) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in frontcountry or in backcountry That is less than 2 000 hectares in size unless the domestic animal is (a) Restrained by a leash not longer than 2 metres, or (b) Confined in a container, enclosure or motor vehicle.
(4) A person must not allow a domestic animal in a park, conservancy or Recreation area to (a) Cause an annoyance, (b) Injure a person, (c) Damage property or vegetation, or (d) Chase or molest wildlife.
(5) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not allow a Domestic animal to enter or remain in bowron lake park or garibaldi Park.
(6) A person who has a domestic animal in a park, conservancy or Recreation area must dispose of excrement from that domestic animal in A manner and at a location where the excrement will not cause a public Inconvenience or annoyance.
(7) A park officer may order a person who contravenes this section to Remove the domestic animal from the park, conservancy or recreation Area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Control of other animals 20 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person who owns or is Responsible for an animal must not, in a park, conservancy or Recreation area, allow that animal to (a) Graze, browse or otherwise consume vegetation, or (b) Roam at large.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (g).] Explosives prohibited 21 A person must not have an explosive or an explosive substance in a Park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) Lawfully carried firearm ammunition, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Division 4 — motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft Peace officer authority under Motor vehicle act 22 A park ranger has the powers and authority of a peace officer for the Purposes of enforcement of the Motor vehicle act And control of traffic within a park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Illegal parking and tow away 23 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not (a) Stop or park a vehicle on the travelled portion of a park road, or (b) Stop or park a vehicle in such a manner as to (i) Impede the proper use of a park road, (ii) Damage vegetation, (iii) Restrict or inhibit recreational use of the park, conservancy or Recreation area, or (iv) Park a vehicle in the frontcountry without payment of the vehicle Parking fee required by regulation.
(2) A person must not, between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the Following day, stop or park a vehicle in a campground, day use area or Parking area of a park, conservancy or recreation area except (a) At a campsite where that person is the member of a registered party, Group or youth group, (b) In a parking area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
(3) If a vehicle is stopped or parked in contravention of subsection (1) Or (2), a park officer may remove the vehicle to a place of Impoundment and any costs incurred by that removal are a debt of the Owner of the vehicle payable to the party that removed and impounded The vehicle, which debt must be paid before removal of the vehicle From the place of impoundment.
(4) A park officer removing a vehicle under subsection (3) must exercise Reasonable care to avoid damage to the vehicle involved, but neither The province nor any park officer is liable or accountable to the Owner for damage to the vehicle being removed arising from that Removal.
[am. b.c. regs. 25/2003, s. 1; 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss.
1 (a) and (c) to (e) and 3.] Motor vehicles and snowmobiles 24 (1) A person must not use or operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle or other Self-propelled vehicle in a park, conservancy or recreation area Except
(a) On a park road, (b) In an area as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a self-propelled wheelchair or other Similar conveyance used by a disabled person.
(3) A person must not use or operate a snowmobile in a park, conservancy Or recreation area except (a) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Cycles
25 A person must not ride a cycle in a park, conservancy or recreation Area except (a) On a park road, (b) In an area or on a trail as permitted by a sign or other device, or (c) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Commercial vehicles prohibited 26 Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not have in a Park, conservancy or recreation area a vehicle that displays Advertising or is equipped with a public address system if that Vehicle is being used to advertise, demonstrate or attract attention.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Aircraft
27 (1) Subject to the act and this section, a person may use an aircraft to Arrive at or depart from a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) A person must not use an aircraft to arrive at or depart from parks or Parts of parks that are set out in column 1 of schedule a, except as May be provided for in the same row in column 2 of that schedule.
[en. b.c. reg. 242/2004, s. 1; am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Division 5 — firearms, hunting and fishing Possession of firearms, bows and crossbows 28 A person must not possess a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, Conservancy or recreation area except (a) A firearm, bow or crossbow that is carried in a vehicle, (b) During an open season specified under the Wildlife act In those parks, conservancies and recreation areas listed in schedule B,
(c) In columbia lake park between september 10 and june 15 of the Following year, or (d) As authorized by a park officer.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 10; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Discharge of firearms, bows and crossbows prohibited 29 (1) A person must not discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, Conservancy or recreation area except (a) During an open season specified under the Wildlife act In those parks, conservancies and recreation areas listed in schedule B and only for the purposes of hunting, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not hunt or Discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow in a park, conservancy or Recreation area within 400 metres of either side of the centreline of A park road or highway.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. ss. 8 and 10; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) And (e).] Feeding of wildlife 30 A person must not feed wildlife in a park, conservancy or recreation Area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Seizure of hunting and fishing devices 31 (1) A park ranger may seize a firearm, bow, crossbow, fishing rod or other Device used in a park, conservancy or recreation area to capture fish Or wildlife if the park ranger finds that the firearm, bow, crossbow, Fishing rod or other device is being used by or is in the possession Of a person who (a) Is in contravention of the Wildlife act Or section 28 or 29 of this regulation, or (b) Fails upon request to exhibit a proper licence or permit issued under The
Wildlife act .
(2) A firearm, bow, crossbow, fishing rod or other device that is seized Under subsection (1) must be taken before a justice who, if satisfied That at the time of seizure it was being used or possessed in Contravention of the Wildlife act Or section 28 or 29 of this regulation, may order it forfeited to the Crown.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (a).] Division 6 — preservation and waste management Prohibited activity 32 (1) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not (a) Damage or destroy any natural resource or property in a park, Conservancy or recreation area, (b) Possess any natural resource or property of a park, conservancy or Recreation area, (c) Remove any natural resource or property from a park, conservancy or Recreation area, (d) Engage in any research or collection activity in a park, conservancy Or recreation area, (e) Remove water from a park, conservancy or recreation area for purposes Other than personal consumption, or (f) Deposit waste in a park, conservancy or recreation area or allow or Cause waste to flow on or seep into any land or water or to be emitted Into the air.
(2) Subsection (1) (a) to (c) does not apply to wildlife taken under this Regulation.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (e).] Litter only in receptacle provided 33 (1) A person must not deposit litter in a park, conservancy or recreation Area except in a receptacle, pit or area provided for that purpose by The ministry or an operator.
(2) If a receptacle, pit or area is not provided for the deposit of Litter, a person must not leave litter in a park, conservancy or Recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d) and (e).] Transporting litter into a park, conservancy or recreation area 34 A person must not bring domestic, commercial or industrial litter into A park, conservancy or recreation area for the purpose of disposal.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Division 7 — camping and picnicking Designated representative 35 (1) Every party, group or youth group using a park, conservancy or Recreation area facility or service for which a fee is payable must Designate one person to be the designated representative of that Party, group or youth group.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, the designated representative Must be 16 years of age or older.
(3) The designated representative must be responsible for (a) The registration of the party, group or youth group, (b) The payment of fees required to be paid by that party, group or youth Group under this regulation, and (c) The actions and conduct of each person in the party, group or youth Group and each guest and visitor of that party, group or youth group While in the park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (a) and 4.] Registration required 36 The designated representative of a party, group or youth group that Camps or uses facilities or services of a park, conservancy or Recreation area for which the minister, by regulation or directive, Has established a fee, must register with the ministry or an operator, As the case may be, by providing all of the following information:
(a) The correct name of the designated representative; (b) The number of persons in the party, group or youth group; (c) The mode of transportation of the party, group or youth group; (d) Any other information reasonably required to identify the party, group Or youth group.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 5.] Controlled public access 37 (1) A person must not, between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the Following day, enter or remain in a campground except (a) A person who is the member of a registered party, group or youth Group, or (b) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person must not, between the Hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day, enter or remain in a Day use area.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (d) and (e) and 6.] Camping restrictions 38 (1) A person must not camp in (a) Frontcountry, or (b) Backcountry less than 2 000 hectares in size Except
(c) In a campsite, or (d) As authorized by a park officer.
(2) If backcountry is 2 000 hectares or more in size, a park officer may Restrict camping to a designated area, campground or campsite.
[am. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 1 (d).] Maximum length of stay 39 (1) A person may not camp in a park, conservancy or recreation area for More than 14 days except (a) As authorized by a park officer, or (b) In a designated long-stay campsite.
(2) Except as authorized by a park officer, a person who owns a vessel or Is responsible for a vessel must not allow that vessel to remain Overnight in a park, conservancy or recreation area for more than 14 Days in a calendar year.
[am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 8; 141/2009, sch. ss. 1 (h) and 7.] Limited occupancy or use 40 (1) A park officer may (a) Limit at any one time the number of persons, vehicles or vessels in a Park, conservancy or recreation area or any part of a park, Conservancy or recreation area, or (b) Close to public use a park, conservancy or recreation area or any part Of a park, conservancy or recreation area.
(2) Notwithstanding section 39, a park officer may limit the length of Stay of a person in a park, conservancy or recreation area.
[am. b.c. reg. 215/2006, sch. s. 8.] Second vehicles 40.1 (1) A party may not have more than one recreational vehicle on a campsite.
(2) A party may have a second non-recreational vehicle on a campsite (a) If so authorized by a park officer and on payment of the fee Established by regulation or directive of the minister, or (b) If the campsite is a designated long-stay campsite.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 8.] Maximum number of persons on a campsite 40.2 No more than 8 persons may occupy a campsite, unless a park officer Authorizes a different number.
[en. b.c. reg. 350/2000, s. 2.] Division 8 — fees Fee collection period 41 (1) If fees established by the minister by regulation or directive are Levied on an overnight basis, the overnight period commences at 12 Noon and terminates at 12 noon the following day.
(2) If fees established by the minister by regulation or directive are Levied on a day basis, the day period commences and terminates at the Times approved by a park officer between 7 a.m. and 11 p.m. on the Same day.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 9.] Payment of fees 42 The designated representative of a party, group or youth group that Camps or uses a campsite or other authorized facility or area in a Park, conservancy or recreation area must, (a) In respect of a campsite or other authorized facility or area managed By the minister, pay to the ministry the fees established by Regulation or directive of the minister, or (b) In respect of a campsite or other authorized facility or area managed By an operator, pay to the operator the fees established by regulation Or directive of the minister.
[en. b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 10.] Repealed
43-50 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 67/94, s. 3.] Repealed
51-52 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 141/2009, sch. s. 11.] Park use permit and resource use permit fees 53 (1) A person applying for a park use permit or resource use permit for a Purpose listed in schedule k, part 1, column 1, must pay to the Minister the application fee set out opposite that purpose in column 2.
(2) A permit holder must, for a request or requirement listed in schedule K, part 2, column 1, pay to the minister the fee set out in column 2 Opposite that request or requirement.
(3) A person to whom a permit listed in schedule k, part 3, column 1 was Issued before january 30, 2018 must pay to the minister the fee set Out opposite that permit type in column 2 (a) In the case of a permit issued for a term of one year or less, when The permit is issued, and (b) In the case of a permit issued for a term of more than one year, when The permit is issued and, annually thereafter, before the anniversary Date of the issue of the permit, until the end of the term.
(4) No fee is payable under this section for a park use permit or resource Use permit issued (a) To british columbia or to canada, (b) For the purposes of research, (c) For public telephones, (d) For the operation of campground and day facilities in a park, Conservancy or recreation area, (e) For exploration and development work authorized by an approved Reclamation permit issued under the mines act, being undertaken on a Mineral claim in good standing in a recreation area designated under Section 23 of the Mineral tenure act , (f) For a use for which, prior to april 1, 1988, no fee was payable, or (g) If the minister directs that payment is not required.
(5) Subject to subsections (4) and (6), the fees payable under this Section are in addition to and not instead of any other amount payable By an applicant or permit holder under the act, this regulation, or Another enactment.
(6) No fee listed in parts 3 and 4 of schedule k for a park use permit or Resource use permit is payable if the permit is issued to a non-profit Organization.
[en. b.c. reg. 437/2004, s. 1; am. b.c. regs. 215/2006, sch. s. 11; 233/2017.] Repealed
54-55 Repealed. [b.c. reg. 67/94, s. 3.] Division 9 — park rangers Park ranger responsibilities 56 The following enactments are prescribed for purposes of section 4 (3) (b) of the act:
(a) Regulations under the Ecological reserve act ; (b) Sections 12 and 13 of the Environmental management act ; (c) Section 9 of the Firearm act ; (d) Liquor control and licensing act ; (d.1) Cannabis control and licensing act ; (e) Motor vehicle act And regulations under that act; (f) Off-road vehicle act And regulations under that act; (g) Sections 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Trespass act .
[en. b.c. reg. 193/2005, app. a, s. 3; am. b.c. regs. 193/2015, app.
5; 193/2018, sch. 2; 209/2018, s. (a).] Contents
| Divisions 1 to 9 | Schedule a | Schedule b | Schedule c | Schedules d to m