B.C. Reg. 426/2000
British Columbia Securities Commission
Deposited December 18, 2000
effective December 31, 2000
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to Point in Time
Securities Act
National Instrument 44-103
Post-Receipt Pricing
[includes amendments up to B.C. Reg. 197/2013, August 13, 2013]
Part 1 — Definitions and Interpretation
Definitions
1.1
(1)
In this Instrument:
"base PREP prospectus"
means a prospectus that at the time of issuance of a receipt for the
prospectus omits some or all of the PREP information as permitted by
this Instrument;
"PREP information"
means the information permitted by this Instrument to be omitted from
a base PREP prospectus;
"PREP procedures"
means the requirements in this Instrument for the distribution under a
base PREP prospectus and a supplemented PREP prospectus of securities,
the price of which is determined after a receipt has been obtained for
the base PREP prospectus; and
"supplemented PREP prospectus"
means a prospectus filed under the PREP procedures containing PREP
information.
(2)
Every term that is defined or interpreted in NI 41-101 or NI 44-101,
the definition or interpretation of which is not restricted to a
specific portion of NI 41-101 or NI 44-101, has, if used in this
Instrument, the meaning ascribed to it in NI 41-101 or NI 44-101,
unless otherwise defined or interpreted in this Instrument.
[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 3.]
Amendments
1.2
References in this Instrument to an amendment to a prospectus include
both an amendment that does not fully restate the text of a prospectus
and an amended and restated prospectus.
Part 2 — Use of the PREP Procedures
Prohibited offerings
2.1
Despite the other provisions of this Instrument, the PREP procedures
shall not be used for a distribution of rights under a rights
offering.
Opting out of the PREP procedures after a preliminary prospectus has
been receipted and before a prospectus has been receipted
2.2
An issuer that has obtained a receipt for a preliminary base PREP
prospectus for a distribution of securities shall not file a
prospectus for the distribution that is not a base PREP prospectus,
unless the issuer files a covering letter, before or concurrently with
the filing of the prospectus, stating that the issuer or the selling
securityholder, as the case may be, has decided not to use the PREP
procedures for the distribution.
Opting into the PREP procedures after a preliminary prospectus has
been receipted and before the prospectus has been receipted
2.3
An issuer that has obtained a receipt for a preliminary prospectus
that is not a preliminary base PREP prospectus for a distribution of
securities shall not file a base PREP prospectus for the distribution,
unless the issuer files a covering letter, before or concurrently with
the base PREP prospectus, stating that the issuer or the selling
securityholder, as the case may be, has decided to use the PREP
procedures for the distribution.
Opting out of the PREP procedures after a prospectus has been
receipted
2.4
If a receipt has been issued for a base PREP prospectus for a
distribution of securities and the issuer or the selling
securityholder decides, before a supplemented PREP prospectus is
filed, no longer to use the PREP procedures for the distribution, the
issuer shall file
(a)
either
(i)
an amended prospectus that is not a base PREP prospectus or a
supplemented PREP prospectus, or
(ii)
a new preliminary prospectus that is not a preliminary base PREP
prospectus; and
(b)
a covering letter stating that the issuer or the selling
securityholder, as the case may be, has decided not to use the PREP
procedures for the distribution.
Part 3 — Base PREP Prospectuses
Form of base PREP prospectus
3.1
The required form of prospectus under securities legislation may be
varied for a PREP prospectus to the extent provided for in this
Instrument.
Required disclosure
3.2
(1)
A base PREP prospectus of an issuer shall contain the following:
1. A statement at the top of the cover page identifying the
prospectus as a base PREP prospectus.
2. The following statement in red ink and in
italics
on the cover page:
"This [insert throughout, if applicable, "short form"] prospectus has
been filed under procedures in [insert names of each jurisdiction
where qualified] that permit certain information about these
securities to be determined after the prospectus has become final and
that permit the omission of that information from this prospectus. The
procedures require the delivery to purchasers of a supplemented PREP
prospectus containing the omitted information within a specified
period of time after agreeing to purchase any of these securities."
3. A statement that all disclosure contained in a supplemented
PREP prospectus that is not contained in the base PREP prospectus will
be incorporated by reference into the base PREP prospectus as of the
date of the supplemented PREP prospectus.
4. If securities other than shares are being distributed, a
statement of the aggregate dollar amount of securities to which the
base PREP prospectus pertains.
5. If shares are being distributed,
(a)
the aggregate dollar amount of the shares to which the base PREP
prospectus pertains, if
(i)
the proceeds of the offering are to be applied to a specific purpose
identified in the prospectus and a minimum amount must be raised
through the offering in order to accomplish the purpose, and
(ii)
there is no pre-existing trading market in which securities of the
same class as the securities to be distributed under the prospectus
are traded; or
(b)
either the aggregate number, or the aggregate dollar amount, of the
shares to which the base PREP prospectus pertains.
6. Any earnings coverage ratios required under securities
legislation, which may be expressed as ranges based on a reasonable
estimate of the PREP information.
7. The prospectus certificates required by Part 5 of NI 41-101 and
other securities legislation,
(a) in the following issuer certificate form:
"The [insert, if applicable, "short form"] prospectus, together with
the documents and information incorporated by reference, will, as of
the date of the supplemented prospectus providing the information
permitted to be omitted from this prospectus, constitute, full, true
and plain disclosure of all material facts relating to the securities
offered by this prospectus as required under the securities
legislation of [insert name of each jurisdiction in which
qualified]."; and
(b) in the following underwriter certificate form:
"To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, this [insert,
if applicable "short form"] prospectus, together with the documents
and information incorporated by reference, will, as of the date of the
supplemented prospectus providing the information permitted to be
omitted from this prospectus, constitute full, true and plain
disclosure of all material facts relating to the securities offered by
this prospectus as required under the securities legislation of
[insert name of each jurisdiction in which qualified].
8. and 9. Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 4 (b) and (c).]
10. List all exemptions from the provisions of this Instrument granted
to the issuer applicable to the base PREP prospectus, including all
exemptions to be evidenced by the issuance of a receipt for the base
PREP prospectus pursuant to section 6.2.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), a preliminary base PREP prospectus is not
required to contain the information required in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
of subsection (1), if the information is not known at the time of
filing the preliminary base PREP prospectus.
[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2005, App. B, s. 2; 59/2008, App. E, s. 4.]
Disclosure that may be omitted
3.3
A base PREP prospectus may omit the following:
1. The public offering price of the securities to be distributed.
2. The amount of cash underwriting fees, discounts and
commissions for the distribution of the securities.
3. The net proceeds of the distribution.
4. If shares are being distributed and only the aggregate number of
securities to be distributed is disclosed and the aggregate dollar
amount of shares is not required to be disclosed under paragraph 5 of
subsection 3.2 (1), the gross proceeds of the distribution.
5. Any dividend or interest rate of the securities to be
distributed.
6. Any dividend or interest payment dates, record dates and any
dates from which dividends or interest accrue for the securities to be
distributed.
7. Any redemption, purchase for cancellation, conversion and
exchange prices of the securities.
8. The identity of the members of the underwriting syndicate,
other than the lead underwriter and any co-lead underwriter, and the
disclosure required under Item 14 of Form 44-101F1 or Item 25 of Form
41-101F1.
9. The delivery dates of securities to be purchased under the
distribution.
10. If one or more underwriters have agreed to purchase the
securities to be distributed at a specified price, the statement
required under securities legislation that the securities are to be
taken up by the underwriters, if at all, on or before a specified
date.
11. If the securities to be distributed are underwritten on a
best efforts basis for which a minimum amount of funds are required by
an issuer, disclosure required under securities legislation concerning
the maximum length of time for which the distribution may continue and
concerning the disposition of subscription funds.
12. Other terms of the securities to be distributed that are
mathematically derivable from any of the information referred to in
paragraphs 1 through 11.
[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2005, App. B, s. 3; 59/2008, App. E, s. 5.]
Issuance of receipt
3.4
Despite the omission of PREP information, the regulator may issue a
receipt for a base PREP prospectus.
Expiry of receipt
3.5
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), a receipt issued for a base PREP prospectus
expires 90 days after issuance unless a supplemented PREP prospectus
is filed within the 90 day period.
(2)
If a supplemented PREP prospectus is not filed within 20 days of the
filing of a base PREP prospectus, the receipt issued for the base PREP
prospectus expires at the time immediately before the entering into of
the first agreement of purchase and sale for a security to which the
base PREP prospectus pertains, unless a receipt has been issued within
the preceding 20 days for an amended base PREP prospectus that updates
to the date of the filing of the amended base PREP prospectus all of
the disclosure contained in the base PREP prospectus.
Amendment to a base PREP prospectus
3.6
(1)
For an amendment to a base PREP prospectus, other than an amendment
filed under section 2.4 to opt out of the PREP procedures, in respect
of a base PREP prospectus that included the issuer certificate form or
the underwriter certificate form in subsection 3.2 (1), and if the
amendment is not a restatement of the base PREP prospectus, insert the
phrase "as amended by this amendment" after the reference in each
certificate form to the prospectus.
(2)
For an amended and restated base PREP prospectus, other than an
amended and restated base PREP prospectus filed under section 2.4 to
opt out of the PREP procedures, in respect of a base PREP prospectus
that included the issuer certificate form or the underwriter
certificate form in subsection 3.2 (1), preface the reference to the
prospectus in each certificate form with the phrase "this amended and
restated".
[en. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 6.]
Part 4 — Supplemented PREP Prospectuses
Requirement to use a supplemented PREP prospectus
4.1
An issuer or selling securityholder that distributes securities under
a base PREP prospectus shall supplement the disclosure in the base
PREP prospectus with a supplemented PREP prospectus in order for the
prospectus to contain full, true and plain disclosure of all material
facts relating to the securities distributed under the prospectus.
[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2005, App. B, s. 5; 59/2008, App. E, s. 7.]
Incorporation by reference
4.2
The content of a supplemented PREP prospectus that is not also
contained in the corresponding base PREP prospectus is incorporated by
reference in the base PREP prospectus as of the date of the
supplemented PREP prospectus.
Restriction on changes
4.3
A supplemented PREP prospectus shall be identical to the corresponding
base PREP prospectus, except for the changes permitted or required
under this Part.
Changes in the size of distribution
4.4
(1)
The size of the distribution as disclosed in the base PREP prospectus
under paragraph 4 or 5 of subsection 3.2 (1) may be increased or
decreased by up to 20% in a supplemented PREP prospectus.
(2)
If the size of the distribution as disclosed in the base PREP
prospectus under paragraph 4 or 5 of subsection 3.2 (1) is increased
or decreased by up to 20% in a supplemented PREP prospectus and that
increase or decrease is a material change, the provisions of Part 6 of
NI 41-101 or other securities legislation that require the filing of
an amendment to a prospectus if a material change occurs are satisfied
by the filing of the supplemented PREP prospectus.
(3)
Despite the provisions of securities legislation regarding the
prescribed form of issuer certificate form and underwriter certificate
form for prospectus amendments, a supplemented PREP prospectus filed
in order to satisfy provisions of Part 6 of NI 41-101 or other
securities legislation that require the filing of an amendment to a
prospectus if a material change occurs shall contain the issuer
certificate form and underwriter certificate form required in
subsection 4.5 (2).
[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 8.]
Required disclosure
4.5
(1)
A supplemented PREP prospectus shall be dated the date that the public
offering price of the securities is determined.
(2)
A supplemented PREP prospectus shall contain the following:
1. All of the PREP information omitted from the base PREP
prospectus.
2. Instead of the earnings coverage ratios expressed as ranges based
on a reasonable estimate of the PREP information as permitted under
paragraph 6 of subsection 3.2 (1), the earnings coverage ratios
required under securities legislation.
3. The prospectus certificates required by Part 5 of NI 41-101 or
other securities legislation,
(a) in the following issuer certificate form:
"This [insert, if applicable, "short form"] prospectus [insert in the
case of a short form prospectus distribution — ", together with the
documents incorporated by reference"] constitutes full, true and plain
disclosure of all material facts relating to the securities offered by
this prospectus as required under securities legislation of [insert
name of each jurisdiction in which qualified]."; and
(b) in the following underwriter certificate form:
"To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, this [insert,
if applicable, "short form"] prospectus [insert in the case of a short
form prospectus distribution — ", together with the documents
incorporated by reference,"] constitutes full, true and plain
disclosure of all material facts relating to securities offered by
this prospectus as required under the securities legislation of
[insert name of each jurisdiction in which qualified]."
4. and 5. Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 9 (b) and
(c).]
6. A list and brief description of each document that has been
incorporated by reference in the base PREP prospectus since the
issuance of a receipt for the base PREP prospectus.
[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2005, App. B, s. 6; 59/2008, App. E, s. 9.]
Legend to be omitted
4.6
A supplemented PREP prospectus shall omit the legend required under
paragraph 2 of subsection 3.2 (1).
Amendment to a supplemented PREP prospectus
4.7
An amendment to a supplemented PREP prospectus shall contain the form
of certificates set out in subsection 4.5 (2) for a supplemented PREP
prospectus with the following changes:
1. If the amendment is not a restatement of the supplemented PREP
prospectus, the phrase "as amended by this amendment" inserted after
the reference in each certificate form to the prospectus.
2. If the amendment is an amended and restated supplemented PREP
prospectus, the reference in each certificate form to the prospectus
prefaced by the phrase "this amended and restated".
[en. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 10.]
Timing of filing of supplemented PREP prospectus
4.8
If securities are distributed using the PREP procedures in the local
jurisdiction, a supplemented PREP prospectus prepared in accordance
with this Instrument shall be filed in the local jurisdiction by the
second business day following the date of the determination of the
information omitted from the base PREP prospectus.
Delivery requirement
4.9
If securities are being distributed using the PREP procedures, the
requirement under securities legislation to deliver a prospectus to a
purchaser of securities shall be satisfied by the delivery of a
supplemented PREP prospectus.
Underwriting agreements
4.10
Despite the provisions of Part 9 of NI 41-101, an underwriting
agreement or other material contract that relates to a distribution of
securities that cannot be completed until the distribution is priced
and that is required under Part 9 of NI 41-101, to be filed with a
prospectus
(a)
shall be filed with the base PREP prospectus in draft form and may
omit PREP information; and
(b)
shall be refiled in final form, together with the supplemented PREP
prospectus or base PREP prospectus amendment containing the PREP
information and a copy of the agreement, blacklined against the draft
form filed under paragraph (a).
[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 11.]
Part 4A — Marketing in Connection with the PREP Procedures
Definitions
4A.1
(1)
In this Part,
"comparables"
means information that compares an issuer to other issuers;
"U.S. cross-border initial public offering"
means an initial public offering of securities of an issuer being made
contemporaneously in the United States of America and Canada by way of
a prospectus filed with a securities regulatory authority in a
jurisdiction of Canada and a U.S. prospectus filed with the SEC;
"U.S. cross-border offering"
means an offering of securities of an issuer being made
contemporaneously in the United States of America and Canada by way of
a prospectus filed with a securities regulatory authority in a
jurisdiction of Canada and a U.S. prospectus filed with the SEC, and
includes a U.S. cross-border initial public offering;
"U.S. prospectus"
means a prospectus that has been prepared in accordance with the
disclosure and other requirements of U.S. federal securities law for
an offering of securities registered under the 1933 Act.
(2)
In this Part, for greater certainty, a reference to
"provides"
includes showing a document to a person without allowing the person to
retain or make a copy of the document.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Standard term sheets after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus
4A.2
(1)
An investment dealer must not provide a standard term sheet to a
potential investor after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus or
any amendment is issued unless
(a)
the standard term sheet complies with subsections (2) and (3);
(b)
other than contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters, all information in the standard term sheet concerning
the issuer, the securities or the offering
(i)
is disclosed in, or derived from, the final base PREP prospectus, the
supplemented PREP prospectus or any amendment that has been filed, or
(ii)
will be disclosed in, or derived from, the supplemented PREP
prospectus that is subsequently filed; and
(c)
a receipt for the final base PREP prospectus has been issued in the
local jurisdiction.
(2)
A standard term sheet provided under subsection (1) must be dated and
include the following legend, or words to the same effect, on the
first page:
A
[final base PREP prospectus/supplemented PREP prospectus]
containing important information relating to the securities described
in this document has been filed with the securities regulatory
authorit
[y/ies]
in
[each of/certain of the provinces/provinces and territories of
Canada]
.
Copies of the
[final base PREP prospectus/supplemented PREP prospectus]
may be obtained from
[insert contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters]
.
This document does not provide full disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
supplemented PREP prospectus and any amendment for disclosure of those
facts, especially risk factors relating to the securities offered,
before making an investment decision.
(3)
A standard term sheet provided under subsection (1) may contain only
the information referred to in subsection (2) and the information
referred to in subsection 13.5 (3) of NI 41-101.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Marketing materials after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus
4A.3
(1)
An investment dealer must not provide marketing materials to a
potential investor after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus or
any amendment is issued unless
(a)
the marketing materials comply with subsections (2) to (9);
(b)
other than contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters and any comparables, all information in the marketing
materials concerning the issuer, the securities or the offering
(i)
is disclosed in, or derived from, the final base PREP prospectus, the
supplemented PREP prospectus or any amendment that has been filed, or
(ii)
will be disclosed in, or derived from, the supplemented PREP
prospectus that is subsequently filed;
(c)
other than prescribed language, the marketing materials contain the
same cautionary language in bold type as contained on the cover page,
and in the summary, of the final base PREP prospectus;
(d)
a template version of the marketing materials is approved in writing
by the issuer and the lead underwriter before the marketing materials
are provided;
(e)
a template version of the marketing materials is filed on or before
the day that the marketing materials are first provided;
(f)
a receipt for the final base PREP prospectus has been issued in the
local jurisdiction; and
(g)
the investment dealer provides the marketing materials with a copy of
(i)
the final base PREP prospectus and any amendment, or
(ii)
if it has been filed, the supplemented PREP prospectus and any
amendment.
(2)
A template version of the marketing materials filed under paragraph 1
(e) may contain blank spaces for the PREP information set out in
section 3.3, provided that the omitted information is contained in the
supplemented PREP prospectus that is subsequently filed.
(3)
If a template version of the marketing materials is approved in
writing by the issuer and lead underwriter under paragraph 1 (d) and
filed under paragraph 1 (e), an investment dealer may provide a
limited-use version of the marketing materials that
(a)
has a date that is different than the template version;
(b)
contains a cover page referring to the investment dealer or
underwriters or a particular investor or group of investors;
(c)
contains contact information for the investment dealer or
underwriters;
(d)
has text in a format, including the type's font, colour or size, that
is different than the template version; or
(e)
contains the omitted information referred to in subsection (2),
provided that the omitted information is contained in the supplemented
PREP prospectus that is subsequently filed.
(4)
If a template version of the marketing materials is divided into
separate sections for separate subjects and is approved in writing by
the issuer and lead underwriter under paragraph (1) (d), and that
template version is filed under paragraph (1) (e), an investment
dealer may provide a limited-use version of the marketing materials
that includes only one or more of those separate sections.
(5)
The issuer may remove any comparables, and any disclosure relating to
those comparables, from the template version of the marketing
materials before filing it under paragraph (1) (e) or (8) (b) if
(a)
the comparables, and any disclosure relating to the comparables, are
in a separate section of the template version of the marketing
materials;
(b)
the template version of the marketing materials that is filed contains
a note advising that the comparables, and any disclosure relating to
the comparables, were removed in accordance with this subsection,
provided that the note appears immediately after where the removed
comparables and related disclosure would have been;
(c)
if the prospectus is filed in the local jurisdiction, a complete
template version of the marketing materials containing the
comparables, and any disclosure relating to the comparables, is
delivered to the securities regulatory authority; and
(d)
the complete template version of the marketing materials contains the
disclosure referred to in paragraph 13.7 (4) (d) of NI 41-101.
(6)
Marketing materials provided under subsection (1) must be dated and
include the following legend, or words to the same effect, on the
first page:
A
[final base PREP prospectus/supplemented PREP prospectus]
containing important information relating to the securities described
in this document has been filed with the securities regulatory
authorit
[y/ies]
in
[each of/certain of the provinces/provinces and territories of
Canada]
. A copy of the
[final base PREP prospectus/supplemented PREP prospectus]
, and any amendment, is required to be delivered with this document.
This document does not provide full disclosure of all material facts
relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
supplemented PREP prospectus and any amendment for disclosure of those
facts, especially risk factors relating to the securities offered,
before making an investment decision.
(7)
An investment dealer must not provide marketing materials under
subsection (1) after a receipt for the final base PREP prospectus is
issued unless the issuer
(a)
has included the template version of the marketing materials filed
under paragraph (1) (e) in the final base PREP prospectus, and any
amendment, or incorporated by reference the template version of the
marketing materials filed under paragraph (1) (e) into the final base
PREP prospectus, and any amendment, in the manner described in
subsection 36A.1 (1) of Form 41-101F1 or subsection 11.6 (1) of Form
44-101F1, as applicable, or
(b)
has included in the final base PREP prospectus a statement that any
template version of the marketing materials filed after the date of
the final base PREP prospectus and before the termination of the
distribution is deemed to be incorporated into the final base PREP
prospectus.
(8)
If an amendment to a final base PREP prospectus or a supplemented PREP
prospectus modifies a statement of material fact that appeared in
marketing materials provided under subsection (1), the issuer must
(a)
indicate in the amendment that the template version of the marketing
materials is not part of the final base PREP prospectus or
supplemented PREP prospectus, as amended, to the extent that the
contents of the template version of the marketing materials have been
modified or superseded by a statement contained in the amendment;
(b)
prepare and file, at the time the issuer files the amendment to the
final base PREP prospectus or supplemented PREP prospectus, as
applicable, a revised template version of the marketing materials that
is blacklined to show the modified statement; and
(c)
include in the amendment to the final base PREP prospectus or
supplemented PREP prospectus, as applicable, the disclosure required
by subsection 36A.1 (3) of Form 41-101F1 or subsection 11.6 (3) of
Form 44-101F1, as applicable.
(9)
Any revised template version of the marketing materials filed under
subsection (8) must comply with this section.
(10)
If marketing materials are provided under subsection (1) but the
issuer did not comply with subsection (7), the marketing materials are
deemed for purposes of securities legislation to be incorporated into
the final base PREP prospectus as of the date of the final base PREP
prospectus to the extent not otherwise expressly modified or
superseded by a statement contained in the final base PREP prospectus.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Road shows after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus
4A.4
(1)
An investment dealer must not conduct a road show for potential
investors after a receipt for a final base PREP prospectus or any
amendment is issued unless
(a)
the road show complies with subsections (2) to (4); and
(b)
a receipt for the final base PREP prospectus has been issued in the
local jurisdiction.
(2)
Subject to section 4A.6, an investment dealer must not provide
marketing materials to investors attending a road show conducted under
subsection (1) unless the marketing materials are provided in
accordance with section 4A.3.
(3)
If an investment dealer conducts a road show, the investment dealer
must establish and follow reasonable procedures to
(a)
ask any investor attending the road show in person, by telephone
conference call, on the internet or by other electronic means to
provide their name and contact information;
(b)
keep a record of any information provided by the investor; and
(c)
provide the investor with a copy of
(i)
the final base PREP prospectus and any amendment, or
(ii)
if it has been filed, the supplemented PREP prospectus and any
amendment.
(4)
If an investment dealer permits an investor, other than an accredited
investor, to attend a road show, the investment dealer must commence
the road show with the oral reading of the following statement or a
statement to the same effect:
This presentation does not provide full disclosure of all material
facts relating to the securities offered. Investors should read the
supplemented PREP prospectus and any amendment for disclosure of those
facts, especially risk factors relating to the securities offered,
before making an investment decision.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Exception from procedures for road shows for certain U.S. cross-border
initial public offerings
4A.5
(1)
Subject to subsection (2), paragraphs 4A.4 (3) (a) and (b) do not
apply to an investment dealer that conducts a road show in connection
with a U.S. cross-border initial public offering.
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply unless
(a)
the issuer is relying on the exemption from U.S. filing requirements
in Rule 433 (d) (8) (ii) under the 1933 Act in respect of the road
show; and
(b)
the investment dealer establishes and follows reasonable procedures to
(i)
ask any investor attending the road show in person, by telephone
conference call, on the internet or by other electronic means to
voluntarily provide their name and contact information; and
(ii)
keep a record of any information voluntarily provided by the investor.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Exception from filing and incorporation requirements for road shows
for certain U.S. cross-border offerings
4A.6
(1)
Subject to subsections (2) to (4), if an investment dealer provides
marketing materials to a potential investor in connection with a road
show for a U.S. cross-border offering, the following provisions do not
apply to the template version of the marketing materials relating to
the road show:
(a)
paragraph 4A.3 (1) (e);
(b)
subsections 4A.3 (7) to (10).
(2)
Subsection (1) does not apply unless
(a)
the underwriters have a reasonable expectation that the securities
offered under the U.S. cross-border offering will be sold primarily in
the United States of America;
(b)
the issuer and the underwriters who sign the base PREP prospectus or
the supplemented PREP prospectus filed in the local jurisdiction
provide a contractual right containing the language set out in
subsection 36A.1 (5) of Form 41-101F1, or words to the same effect,
except that the language may specify that the contractual right does
not apply to any comparables provided in accordance with subsection
(3); and
(c)
if the base PREP prospectus has been filed in the local jurisdiction,
the template version of the marketing materials relating to the road
show is delivered to the securities regulatory authority.
(3)
If the template version of the marketing materials relating to the
road show contains comparables, the template version of the marketing
materials must contain the disclosure referred to in paragraph 13.7
(4) (d) of NI 41-101.
(4)
For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not apply to marketing
materials other than the marketing materials provided in connection
with the road show.
[en. B.C. Reg. 197/2013, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Part 5
Repealed
5.1
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 369/2005, App. B, s. 7.]
Part 6 — Exemptions
Exemption
6.1
(1)
The regulator or the securities regulatory authority may grant an
exemption from this Instrument, in whole or in part, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as may be imposed in the exemption.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the regulator may grant such
an exemption.
(2.1)
Except in Ontario, an exemption referred to in subsection (1) is
granted under the statute referred to in Appendix B of National
Instrument 14-101
Definitions
opposite the name of the local jurisdiction.
(3)
An application made to the securities regulatory authority or
regulator for an exemption from this Instrument shall include a letter
or memorandum describing the matters relating to the exemption, and
indicating why consideration should be given to the granting of the
exemption.
[am. B.C. Regs. 369/2005, App. B, s. 8; 59/2008, App. E, s. 12.]
Evidence of exemption
6.2
(1)
Subject to subsection (2) and without limiting the manner in which an
exemption under this Part may be evidenced, the granting of an
exemption under this Part may be evidenced by the issuance of a
receipt for a base PREP prospectus or an amendment to a base PREP
prospectus.
(2)
The issuance of a receipt for a base PREP prospectus or an amendment
to a base PREP prospectus is not evidence that the exemption is being
granted unless
(a)
the person or company that sought the exemption sent to the regulator
(i)
the letter or memorandum referred to in subsection 6.1 (3), on or
before the date of the filing of the preliminary base PREP prospectus,
or
(ii)
the letter or memorandum referred to in subsection 6.1 (3) after the
date of the filing of the preliminary base PREP prospectus and
received a written acknowledgement from the regulator that the
exemption may be evidenced in the manner set out in subsection (1),
and
(b)
the regulator has not before, or concurrently with, the issuance of
the receipt sent notice to the person or company that sought the
exemption, that the exemption sought may not be evidenced in the
manner set out in subsection (1).
[am. B.C. Reg. 59/2008, App. E, s. 13.]
Part 7 — Effective Date
Effective date
7.1
This Instrument shall come into force on December 31, 2000.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, section 184]
