B.C. Reg. 241/2005
British Columbia Securities Commission
Deposited June 29, 2005
effective June 30, 2005
This consolidation is current to March 5, 2024.
Link to consolidated regulation (PDF)
Link to Point in Time
Securities Act
National Instrument 58-101
Disclosure of Corporate Governance Practices
[Last amended June 9, 2023 by B.C. Reg. 140/2023]
Part 1 — Definitions and Application
Definitions
1.1
In this Instrument,
"AIF"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102;
"asset-backed security"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102;
"CEO"
means a chief executive officer;
"code"
means a code of business conduct and ethics;
"executive officer"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102;
"marketplace"
has the same meaning as in National Instrument 21-101
Marketplace Operation
;
"MD&A"
has the same meaning as in NI 51-102;
"NI 51-102"
means National Instrument 51-102
Continuous Disclosure Obligations
;
"NI 52-110"
means National Instrument 52-110
Audit Committees
;
"SEDAR+"
has the same meaning as in National Instrument 13-101
System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval + (SEDAR+)
;
"significant security holder"
means, in relation to an issuer, a security holder that
(a)
owns or controls 10% or more of any class of the issuer's voting
securities, or
(b)
is able to affect materially the control of the issuer, whether alone
or by acting in concert with others;
"subsidiary entity"
has the meaning set out in NI 52-110;
"U.S. marketplace"
means an exchange registered as of the effective date of this
Instrument as a 'national securities exchange' under section 6 of
the 1934 Act, or the Nasdaq Stock Market; and
"venture issuer"
means a reporting issuer that, at the end of its most recently
completed financial year, did not have any of its securities listed or
quoted on any of the Toronto Stock Exchange, Aequitas NEO Exchange
Inc., a U.S. marketplace, or a marketplace outside Canada and the
United States of America other than the Alternative Investment Market
of the London Stock Exchange or the PLUS markets operated by PLUS
Markets Group plc.
[am. B.C. Regs. 410/2007, App. D, s. 2 (a); 57/2008, Sch. C, s. 1;
208/2015, Sch. H, s. 1; 140/2023, Sch. D, s. 2.]
Meaning of independence
1.2
(1)
For the purposes of this Instrument, a director is independent if he
or she would be independent within the meaning of section 1.4 of NI
52-110.
(2)
Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 57/2008, Sch. C, s. 2 (b).]
[am. B.C. Reg. 57/2008, Sch. C, s. 2.]
Application
1.3
This Instrument applies to a reporting issuer other than:
(a)
an investment fund or issuer of asset-backed securities, as defined in
NI 51-102;
(b)
a designated foreign issuer or SEC foreign issuer, as defined in
National Instrument 71-102
Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions Relating to Foreign
Issuers
;
(c)
an exchangeable security issuer or credit support issuer that is
exempt under section 13.3 or 13.4 of NI 51-102, as applicable; and
(d)
an issuer that is a subsidiary entity, if
(i)
the issuer does not have equity securities, other than
non-convertible, non-participating preferred securities, trading on a
marketplace, and
(ii)
the person or company that owns the issuer is
(A)
subject to the requirements of this Instrument, or
(B)
an issuer that has securities listed or quoted on a U.S. marketplace,
and is in compliance with the corporate governance disclosure
requirements of that U.S. marketplace.
[am. B.C. Regs. 410/2007, App. D, s. 2 (b); 208/2015, Sch. H, s. 2.]
Part 2 — Disclosure and Filing Requirements
Required disclosure
2.1
(1)
If management of an issuer, other than a venture issuer, solicits a
proxy from a security holder of the issuer for the purpose of electing
directors to the issuer's board of directors, the issuer must include
in its management information circular the disclosure required by Form
58-101F1.
(2)
An issuer, other than a venture issuer, that does not send a
management information circular to its security holders must provide
the disclosure required by Form 58-101F1 in its AIF.
Venture issuers
2.2
(1)
If management of a venture issuer solicits a proxy from a security
holder of the venture issuer for the purpose of electing directors to
the issuer's board of directors, the venture issuer must include in
its management information circular the disclosure required by Form
58-101F2.
(2)
A venture issuer that does not send a management information circular
to its security holders must provide the disclosure required by Form
58-101F2 in its AIF or annual MD&A.
Filing of code
2.3
If an issuer has adopted or amended a written code, the issuer must
file a copy of the code or amendment on SEDAR+ no later than the date
on which the issuer's next financial statements must be filed, unless
a copy of the code or amendment has been previously filed.
[am. B.C. Reg. 140/2023, Sch. D, s. 3.]
Part 3 — Exemptions and Effective Date
Exemptions
3.1
(1)
The securities regulatory authority or regulator may grant an
exemption from this rule, in whole or in part, subject to any
conditions or restrictions imposed in the exemption.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), in Ontario, only the regulator may grant an
exemption.
Effective date
3.2
(1)
This Instrument comes into force on June 30, 2005.
(2)
Despite subsection (1), sections 2.1 and 2.2 only apply to management
information circulars, AIFs and annual MD&A, as the case may be,
which are filed following an issuer's financial year ending on or
after June 30, 2005.
Form 58-101F1
Corporate Governance Disclosure
[am. B.C. Reg. 180/2011.]
1. Board of directors
(a) Disclose the identity of directors who are independent.
(b) Disclose the identity of directors who are not independent, and
describe the basis for that determination.
(c) Disclose whether or not a majority of directors are independent. If
a majority of directors are not independent, describe what the board of
directors (the
board
) does to facilitate its exercise of independent judgement in carrying
out its responsibilities.
(d) If a director is presently a director of any other issuer that is a
reporting issuer (or the equivalent) in a jurisdiction or a foreign
jurisdiction, identify both the director and the other issuer.
(e) Disclose whether or not the independent directors hold regularly
scheduled meetings at which non-independent directors and members of
management are not in attendance. If the independent directors hold such
meetings, disclose the number of meetings held since the beginning of
the issuer's most recently completed financial year. If the independent
directors do not hold such meetings, describe what the board does to
facilitate open and candid discussion among its independent directors.
(f) Disclose whether or not the chair of the board is an independent
director. If the board has a chair or lead director who is an
independent director, disclose the identity of the independent chair or
lead director, and describe his or her role and responsibilities. If the
board has neither a chair that is independent nor a lead director that
is independent, describe what the board does to provide leadership for
its independent directors.
(g) Disclose the attendance record of each director for all board
meetings held since the beginning of the issuer's most recently
completed financial year.
2. Board mandate
— Disclose the text of the board's written mandate. If the board does
not have a written mandate, describe how the board delineates its role
and responsibilities.
3. Position descriptions
(a) Disclose whether or not the board has developed written position
descriptions for the chair and the chair of each board committee. If the
board has not developed written position descriptions for the chair
and/or the chair of each board committee, briefly describe how the board
delineates the role and responsibilities of each such position.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board and CEO have developed a written
position description for the CEO. If the board and CEO have not
developed such a position description, briefly describe how the board
delineates the role and responsibilities of the CEO.
4. Orientation and continuing education
(a) Briefly describe what measures the board takes to orient new
directors regarding
(i) the role of the board, its committees and its directors, and
(ii) the nature and operation of the issuer's business.
(b) Briefly describe what measures, if any, the board takes to provide
continuing education for its directors. If the board does not provide
continuing education, describe how the board ensures that its directors
maintain the skill and knowledge necessary to meet their obligations as
directors.
5. Ethical business conduct
(a) Disclose whether or not the board has adopted a written code for the
directors, officers and employees. If the board has adopted a written
code:
(i) disclose how a person or company may obtain a copy of the code;
(ii) describe how the board monitors compliance with its code, or if the
board does not monitor compliance, explain whether and how the board
satisfies itself regarding compliance with its code; and
(iii) provide a cross-reference to any material change report filed
since the beginning of the issuer's most recently completed financial
year that pertains to any conduct of a director or executive officer
that constitutes a departure from the code.
(b) Describe any steps the board takes to ensure directors exercise
independent judgement in considering transactions and agreements in
respect of which a director or executive officer has a material
interest.
(c) Describe any other steps the board takes to encourage and promote a
culture of ethical business conduct.
6. Nomination of directors
(a) Describe the process by which the board identifies new candidates
for board nomination.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board has a nominating committee
composed entirely of independent directors. If the board does not have a
nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors,
describe what steps the board takes to encourage an objective nomination
process.
(c) If the board has a nominating committee, describe the
responsibilities, powers and operation of the nominating committee.
7. Compensation
(a) Describe the process by which the board determines the compensation
for the issuer's directors and officers.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board has a compensation committee
composed entirely of independent directors. If the board does not have a
compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors,
describe what steps the board takes to ensure an objective process for
determining such compensation.
(c) If the board has a compensation committee, describe the
responsibilities, powers and operation of the compensation committee.
(d) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 180/2011.]
8. Other board committees
— If the board has standing committees other than the audit,
compensation and nominating committees, identify the committees and
describe their function.
9. Assessments
— Disclose whether or not the board, its committees and individual
directors are regularly assessed with respect to their effectiveness and
contribution. If assessments are regularly conducted, describe the
process used for the assessments. If assessments are not regularly
conducted, describe how the board satisfies itself that the board, its
committees, and its individual directors are performing effectively.
INSTRUCTION:
(1) This Form applies to both corporate and non-corporate entities.
Reference to a particular corporate characteristic, such as a board,
includes any equivalent characteristic of a non-corporate entity.
Income trust issuers must provide disclosure in a manner which
recognizes that certain functions of a corporate issuer, its board and
its management may be performed by any or all of the trustees, the
board or management of a subsidiary of the trust, or the board,
management or employees of a management company. In the case of an
income trust, references to "the issuer" refer to both the trust and
any underlying entities, including the operating entity.
(2) If the disclosure required by Item 1 is included in a management
information circular distributed to security holders of the issuer for
the purpose of electing directors to the issuer's board of directors,
provide disclosure regarding the existing directors and any proposed
directors.
(3) Disclosure regarding board committees made under Item 8 of this
Form may include the existence and summary content of any committee
charter.
(3.1) Issuers may incorporate disclosure regarding compensation made
under Item 7 of this Form by reference to the information required to
be included in Form 51-102F6 Statement of Executive Compensation.
Clearly identify the information that is incorporated by reference
into this Form.
Form 58-101F2
Corporate Governance Disclosure (Venture Issuers)
[am. B.C. Reg. 180/2011.]
Board of directors
1.
Disclose how the board of directors (the board) facilitates its exercise
of independent supervision over management, including
(i) the identity of directors that are independent, and
(ii) the identity of directors who are not independent, and the basis
for that determination.
Directorships
2.
If a director is presently a director of any other issuer that is a
reporting issuer (or the equivalent) in a jurisdiction or a foreign
jurisdiction, identify both the director and the other issuer.
Orientation and continuing education
3.
Describe what steps, if any, the board takes to orient new board
members, and describe any measures the board takes to provide continuing
education for directors.
Ethical business conduct
4.
Describe what steps, if any, the board takes to encourage and promote a
culture of ethical business conduct.
Nomination of directors
5.
Disclose what steps, if any, are taken to identify new candidates for
board nomination, including:
(i) who identifies new candidates, and
(ii) the process of identifying new candidates.
Compensation
6.
Disclose what steps, if any, are taken to determine compensation for the
directors and CEO, including:
(i) who determines compensation, and
(ii) the process of determining compensation.
Other board committees
7.
If the board has standing committees other than the audit, compensation
and nominating committees, identify the committees and describe their
function.
Assessments
8.
Disclose what steps, if any, that the board takes to satisfy itself that
the board, its committees, and its individual directors are performing
effectively.
INSTRUCTION:
(1) This form applies to both corporate and non-corporate entities.
Reference to a particular corporate characteristic, such as a board,
includes any equivalent characteristic of a non-corporate entity.
Income trust issuers must provide disclosure in a manner which
recognizes that certain functions of a corporate issuer, its board and
its management may be performed by any or all of the trustees, the
board or management of a subsidiary of the trust, or the board,
management or employees of a management company. In the case of an
income trust, references to "the issuer" refer to both the trust and
any underlying entities, including the operating entity.
(2) If the disclosure required by Items 1 and 2 is included in a
management information circular distributed to security holders of the
issuer for the purpose of electing directors to the issuer's board of
directors, provide disclosure regarding the existing directors and any
proposed directors.
(3) Disclosure regarding board committees made under Item 7 of this
Form may include the existence and summary content of any committee
charter.
(3.1) Issuers may incorporate disclosure regarding compensation made
under Item 6 of this Form by reference to the information required to
be included in Form 51-102F6 Statement of Executive Compensation.
Clearly identify the information that is incorporated by reference
into this Form.
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation:
Securities Act
, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 418, s. 184.]
